K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  handled  his motor insurance
claim.
background
Mr M was involved in an accident when the van he was driving was hit by another  driver.  
Following the accident  the van was driveable,  but Mr M couldnt use it for his work because  
the damage to the rear doors meant  they couldnt be locked properly. Mr M was provided 
with a hire van.
After UKIs engineer  assessed the damage  UKI told Mr M that because  of the repair  costs  
the van would be written off. It paid him £1,653 in settlement  of the claim. Mr M later found 
out his van had been sold to someone else. He then complained  to UKI about it writing the 
van off, the settlement hed received, and because he wasnt given the option to buy the van 
back.
UKI told Mr M the van was written off because the repair costs were  more than its value. It 
also said the original  settlement  didnt include the cost of a roof rack, security  locks or sign 
writing (which Ill refer to as extras); and that he should have been given the opportunity to 
keep the van. It offered Mr M £100 compensation for the inconvenience this caused him. UKI 
later made a further settlement  payment  of £1,593.11 after Mr M gave it the replacement  
costs for the extras.
UKI later sent Mr M its final response  to his complaint. It reiterated that the extras  hadnt  
been included  in the initial settlement and confirmed  that the van had been written  off in 
error. This time however  it said the engineer wouldnt offer the option to buy the van back 
after it was written off. It nevertheless agreed  to pay Mr M £350 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience suffered as a result  of the van being  written off in error.
Mr M then complained to us. He made various  points throughout the complaint, including:
the engineer  told him the initial £1,653 was in full and final settlement  of the claim and 
included the extras,  but UKI later told him it didnt  so someone  is lying
the engineer  told him the van would  be scrapped but he later found out it had been  sold
he asked for the van back  but was his request was refused
UKI only paid the increased settlement after hed complained  if he hadnt heard from 
the new owner he would have been  none the wiser
he now has a loan he took out to buy a replacement van that he cant  afford.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, which explained why I thought it should be 
partially upheld.  The relevant parts of my provisional  decision are outlined  below;  and they 
form part of my final decision.
Insurers will generally write a vehicle off and settle a claim on a total loss basis if its not 
economical to repair  it. That usually happens  when the repair costs are more  than or 
close to the market value of the vehicle. As UKI accepted that the van shouldnt have 
been written off, I didnt need to make any judgement on whether the decision was fair or 
not  I couldnt  do anything  to turn back the clock and/or reverse the decision UKI made 
Ref: DRN77622792(I couldnt  get UKI to unmake the decision and I couldnt get the new owner to sell/give 
the van back). So I looked at whether UKI treated  Mr M fairly when it tried to rectify  the 
matter.
claim settlement
UKIs maximum  liability  under  the terms of the policy in order to settle the claim was the 
pre-accident market  value  of the van. The market  value was the cost of replacing the van 
with a like for like replacement ie the same  make and model, age and condition.
Its appropriate for insurers to assess the market value of a used vehicle by consulting  
trade guides. UKI told me it used  the retail value  (£2,118) in one trade guide as a basis  
for its settlement  calculation. It then made a deduction from that figure because of other  
pre-accident damage to Mr Ms van. I checked  the trade guide that UKI used as well as 
two others I had access to. The figure UKI used was the highest  of the retail prices 
quoted in those guides. I was therefore satisfied  it was a fair starting  point for the claim 
settlement calculation.
Existing damage often  has a detrimental effect  on a vehicles  market  value. So I didnt 
think there was anything inherently wrong in UKI making  a deduction  because  of the pre-
existing damage  to Mr Ms van. However,  the amount deducted had to be fair. I consider 
the fair way for insurers to assess an appropriate reduction is to estimate  the cost of 
repairing the pre-accident damage, and then deducting half of that figure from the initial 
market value. UKI estimated the repair  costs  (based on repairing the damage rather than 
replacing parts) to be just over £1,000.
Based  on the retail  values provided in the trade guides and the estimated  repair  costs for 
the pre-accident  damage,  I concluded  that UKIs  settlement  calculation  for the van 
(without the extras)  of £1,653 was fair.
I also concluded the payment UKI made for the extras  was fair  because  the amount it 
paid was the same as the estimates Mr M provided.
UKI accepted that Mr M was told the van would be scrapped  its final response letter  
said he was told this as the van was being  sent to a salvage agent.  If the engineer simply 
told Mr M the van was going to be scrapped then it might have been helpful  if hed 
explained precisely what that meant  because  scrapped to a policyholder might mean 
it was never going to be put back on the road and was going to be crushed; whereas 
scrapped to an insurer  could  also mean  the damaged vehicle was being  sold to a scrap 
dealer or salvage agent. I said if the engineer told Mr M the vehicle was going to be 
crushed, then that was misleading.
Regarding Mr M keeping the van, I didnt know what was discussed  between  Mr M and 
the engineer as there was no recording of the conversation available. UKI said it had no 
record of any such request, but I said that wasnt the same  as no request having  been 
made. And I had no reason to disbelieve what Mr M said. In order  to have treated him 
fairly, I think  UKI should have allowed Mr M to keep the van.
However, I didnt think these issues  plus what Mr M said about the initial  settlement 
and what the engineer  told him  made any difference  to the outcome of this part of the 
complaint. That was because, whatever Mr M was told, UKIs total settlement adequately 
compensated Mr M for the loss of the van (in terms of its financial value).
Ref: DRN77622793I wasnt persuaded that UKI was responsible for any costs Mr M incurred (and continues  
to incur) for the loan.  I accepted  he needed a replacement van and he needed a loan in 
order to buy the van he bought.  But UKIs ultimate claim settlement meant he ought  to 
have been able to buy a like for like replacement  van with the money he received. Mr M 
said himself in a letter  to us that the engineers initial valuation  was in line with the value 
of a similar van of that age. But the van Mr M bought, which  he needed the loan for, 
wasnt a like for like replacement  for the van he had  it was a completely different make 
and model, and was 10 years newer  (therefore making it far more  expensive).
delays and general claim handling
Mr M queried  why there was a difference in repair costs mentioned by UKI (it said at one 
point they were nearly £2,800 but a file note two weeks  later said they were closer  to 
£2,100). I didnt  know why there  was a difference in the two figures.  But I didnt look into 
it because I didnt  think it made a difference to the outcome of the complaint. That was 
because whichever repair cost was accurate UKI still wrongly wrote the van off. And, as 
outlined above,  I felt it had adequately compensated Mr M for that by paying him the 
market value of the van.
For the delays, ordinarily  I would  expect a claim of this nature to be settled within  three to 
four weeks. It took roughly two months for the initial  settlement  to be paid to Mr M. The 
delay appeared to have been  caused  due to it taking around seven weeks for UKIs 
engineer to assess the damage  to and value of Mr Ms van. It wasnt  clear from UKIs file 
what caused that delay, although Mr M referred  to staff shortages. Without any further  
explanation, I concluded that UKI unnecessarily delayed settlement of the claim.
I was satisfied that UKIs handling of the claim caused Mr M unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience. For example, he had the distress of having the van written off and it 
being sold to someone else, when he wanted  to keep it. And he had the inconvenience 
of finding and buying a replacement van. Neither would have happened had the van not 
been written off, or had UKI allowed Mr M to have the van back  after it was written off. 
UKI had already offered  Mr M £350 compensation. I thought  that was fair for the distress 
and inconvenience  Mr M suffered.
But I thought  it was fair that UKI pay an additional £100  to cover expenses  that Mr M 
incurred. He had to hire a van for a day (costing  £55) as the hire van he was provided 
with wasnt suitable for a particular  job; and he had to take the train (costing  £43.10)  in 
order to collect the replacement van he bought. Again, neither expense  would have been 
incurred had the van not been written off, or had UKI allowed Mr M to have the van back 
after it was written  off.
Mr M also mentioned losses he suffered because he couldnt complete a particular job. I 
said Id need to see evidence of the actual losses before I would consider making UKI 
cover them.  But I said even if that was provided, I wasnt  minded to make UKI pay any 
compensation in this respect because I thought the losses were too remote  from the 
errors in UKIs handling of the claim.  And even if the claim had gone smoothly Mr M 
would have been without his original  van for a period of time. And, as Ive mentioned 
above, once he received full settlement of the claim he was in a position to buy a like for 
like replacement.
Ref: DRN77622794other issues
Mr M felt UKI would have  got away  with paying  him a lower claim settlement had he not 
called it after hearing from the new owner  of his van. It may well have been  that Mr M 
would only ever have  received  the original settlement  had he not called.  But I could only 
decide a complaint based on what actually happened, not what might have happened 
had the circumstances been different. And the fact was Mr M did call UKI and after that 
UKI did increase  the claim settlement.
Mr M also raised an issue  since bringing  his complaint to us about difficulties he had 
trying to insure his new van and the way the industry priced motor insurance  after 
someone has had a non-fault accident.  I wasnt able to consider  that as part of this 
complaint because the issued needed to be raised against  the specific  insurers involved 
(including UKI) first.
summary
I concluded that UKI made mistakes  in its handling of Mr Ms claim. For example, it 
initially undervalued  the van, it incorrectly wrote the van off, and it didnt allow Mr M to 
keep the van. But, I was satisfied that in general  it rectified  those mistakes and put things 
right prior to Mr M bringing his complaint to us (by increasing the settlement payment 
and by paying £350 compensation).
I nevertheless concluded  that to fairly resolve  the complaint UKI should  pay Mr M a 
further £100 compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
I havent received  anything  further  from UKI.
Mr M didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  He re-iterated what  had happened,  outlined 
various points/questions and suggested various  actions  I should  take in order to investigate 
the matter further.  He said it cost over £13,000 to replace the original van and that I was 
joking that he could  have found a comparable and reliable van for the settlement he 
received. He also provided further information about  the job he couldnt  complete.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what  Mr M has said in response to my provisional decision, but it doesnt lead me 
to change my mind.  Much of what he said was a repeat of what  hed said at various  stages 
throughout his complaint, which I had considered prior to issuing my provisional decision. 
There are nevertheless a few points that I will address further.
When I decide a complaint  its not always necessary for me to know  why something did or 
didnt happen.  Its usually enough  for me to simply know  that something  did or didnt happen. 
So while Mr M might want answers, for example,  as to why UKI wrote his van off, why it 
didnt allow him to have the van back and why two different  repair figures are quoted, I dont 
need to know  that in order to decide  this complaint. All I need to know is that UKI did 
Ref: DRN77622795incorrectly write the van off, it did unfairly  refuse to allow Mr M to have the van back, and it 
did quote two different  repair  costs.
Ive noted what  Mr M has said about the cost of the replacement van. However, based upon 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied that the amount UKI ultimately paid in settlement of the 
claim was in line with the market value of Mr Ms original van. It should therefore  have  
enabled Mr M to buy a similar replacement.  In my view, the main reason Mr M is now faced 
with paying off a loan is because he chose to spend  over £13,000 on a van that was 10 
years newer than his old van; rather than buying a replacement that was similar  in terms of 
age, specification, condition etc  to the original van.
Ive also noted  the extra information  Mr M has provided about the job that he was unable to 
complete. However,  theres still no evidence of the actual losses he suffered.  And its still the 
case, in my view, that any losses are too remote from the errors  in UKIs handling of the 
claim.
So, to conclude, my decision remains as outlined in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited pay Mr M a further £100 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7762279