K820x#14complaint
Mrs L thinks Bank of Scotland Plc has unfairly  rejected her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February  2021.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I dont 
think it was unfair for Bank of Scotland to reject Mrs Ls claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Both Mrs L and Bank of Scotland have confirmed that theyve  received  and accept my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs L and Bank of Scotland have accepted my provisional decision, I confirm  my 
provisional findings. My reasons remain the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont think it was 
unfair for Bank of Scotland Plc to reject Mrs Ls claim  under section 75 of the CCA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72378982My provisional decision
complaint
Mrs L thinks Bank of Scotland Plc has unfairly  rejected her claim under section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background
On 8 February 2012, Mrs L and her husband, Mr L, were on holiday  in Tenerife when  they were  
approached by someone in the street.  They were  given a scratchcard, which  indicated theyd won a 
prize. When they went to a nearby resort to claim  it, they attended a presentation about a 
membership scheme, which  included  a Leisure Time Passport.  They say they were  told the 
Leisure Time Passport would allow them to buy holidays at a significant discount. To encourage  them 
to join the scheme, which they did, they were also offered two free holidays. They paid €2,700 
(£2,359.64) to join the scheme.
In 2015, Mrs L wrote to Bank of Scotland to make a claim  under  section 75 of the CCA. Mr and Mrs L 
say the benefits of the Leisure Time Passport were misrepresented. Specifically, they say they tried to 
use it to book  a holiday in Devon and were told the holiday would  cost £700. They say they looked 
online and found the same holiday  at the same location and for the same days  for less than £400, 
so they booked  it online  instead. Mr and Mrs L also say the free holidays  were misrepresented. 
Specifically, they say:
The holidays werent free because  they had to pay a registration fee.
They  were given a long list of countries that were  supposedly  included, but they were unable 
to book a holiday to where they wanted to go. In the end, they went to Tenerife and Malta.
When they arrived on holiday, they were told they had to attend  a sales presentation,  and if 
they didnt, theyd  have to pay for their accommodation.
In May 2015,  Bank  of Scotland rejected  Mrs Ls claim.  Mrs L asked it to reconsider, which  it did. But 
when its position remained the same, she referred her complaint to our service.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate)  what  [I consider] to have been good industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Was there a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement?
Section 75 of the CCA protects  consumers  who buy goods and services on credit.  It says, in certain  
circumstances, the finance provider is legally  answerable for any misrepresentation or breach  of 
Ref: DRN72378983contract by the supplier. And section 56 of the CCA says that any pre-sale  negotiations between  Mrs 
L and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as agent of the finance 
provider.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement  under 
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA.
A credit card can involve  a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling  within section 12(b). Mrs L is the 
debtor and Bank of Scotland is the creditor. There is, however, some ambiguity about the supplier in 
this case.  Below, Ive explained what we know from the available evidence.
The available  evidence
Mrs L has sent us a 7-page document,  completed at the point of sale, which includes:
A 2-page affiliation  and purchase contract, dated  8 February 2012,  between an entity called 
A Vacation in the Sun by Agentes Canarios S.L. and Mr and Mrs L.
This contract   which Ill call Contract 1 and which is the subject of this complaint  says very 
little.
The first page includes the business address,  some personal information about Mr and Mrs L, 
and the contract price. The cost of affiliation  was €2,571.43. IGIC  which appears to be a 
tax  was €128.57. The total contract price was therefore €2,700, which was, according  to the 
contract, to be paid by card on the 24/02/2012.
The second  page includes 5 conditions  of affiliation and purchase:
1. This contract  has a duration of thirty six (36) months, commencing 24/02/2013.
2. An Interval International Leisure Time Passport will also be provided at the 
commencement date of this contract.
3. A Cruise  Voucher provided by Vacation Promotions International (VPI)  will also be 
made available as a gift at the commencement  of this contract. This voucher is 
subject to VPIs  terms and conditions and bookings  are to be made  directly with VPI 
using the Certificate of Registration provided  in the voucher.
4. The Company is obliged to provide  the accommodation as described in this 
contract, subject  to availability, however if due to unforeseen circumstances the 
conditions of the accommodation could  change.
5. This contract  is subject to International Jurisdiction,  it is not subject to any changes  
with regards to content and duration stipulated.
The second  page has been stamped with Agentes Canarios, S.L. B-76542273, next to the 
signature of whoever signed the contract on behalf of and representing A Vacation  in the 
Sun.
A 2-page affiliation  and purchase contract, dated  8 February 2012,  between an entity called 
Fuerteventura Life S.L. and Mr and Mrs L.
This contract   which Ill call Contract 2 and which is not part of this complaint  includes the 
company logos of Grand Holidays  and Interval International.
Ref: DRN72378984The first half of the first page is very similar to Contract 1: it includes the business address 
(Hotel Flamingo), some  personal information about Mr and Mrs L, and the contract  price, 
which was, according to the contract,  paid  by card 08/02/2012.
The same  person who signed Contract 1 on behalf of and representing A Vacation  in the 
Sun, signed Contract 2 on behalf of and representing Fuerteventura Life S.L. A stamp next 
to the signature says,  Grand Holidays Club, Fuerteventura Life, S.L. B-38872933.
A 1-page letter, dated 8 February  2012,  with the company logos of Grand Holidays and 
Interval International at the top, which says:
As a thank you for trying  us out today, the holiday you have won will be upgraded  to 
a free week in a one bedroom apartment in any destination offered by 
Grand Holidays.
Next to the words Authorised  by, the letters been stamped with Agentes  Canarios,  S.L. 
B-76542273.
A 1-page letter, dated 8 February  2012,  with the company logo of A Vacation  in the Sun at 
the top, which says:
As a special thank you for giving us a try today, A Vacation  in the Sun is giving you a 
gift of one week Worldwide holiday, including two return flights
Next to the words Yours sincerely,  the letters  been stamped with Agentes Canarios, S.L. 
B-76542273.
A 1-page letter, dated 8 February  2012,  with the company logo of A Vacation  in the Sun at 
the top, which says:
As a special thank you for giving us a try today, A Vacation  in the Sun is giving you a 
gift of one week European  holiday, including  two return flights
Next to the words Yours sincerely,  the letters  been stamped with Agentes Canarios, S.L. 
B-76542273.
Bank of Scotland  has also sent us three documents  although I assume  Mr and Mrs L sent it the first 
two:
A 1-page letter  undated and addressed to Leisure Time Passport member   which refers 
to Interval Internationals global  network of resorts  and explains the various  benefits  of 
membership.
A 1-page Leisure Time Passport application form and agreement, which  has been completed 
by hand  although whats handwritten is illegible. The form says it should be returned to 
Interval International and that Interval  will send a personalised membership card on receipt 
of the form. It also says:
I understand and acknowledge that the person and/or  entity  that sold me 
membership of Leisure  Time Passport is independent of Interval International.
The terms of conditions of Leisure Time Passport, which says:
The Leisure Time Passport  membership program is offered by Worldwide Vacation & 
Travel Inc.
Ref: DRN72378985Finally, Mrs L has sent us her credit card statement  dated 6 March  2012.  On 8 February 2012, she 
used her Bank of Scotland credit card to make two payments of £428.20 to Hotel Flamingo  Adeje 
Casco  which I assume was the contract price of €1,000 for Contract 2. On 24 February  2012, Mrs L 
used the same card to pay A.C. Flamingo Adeje  Casco  £2,359.64  which I assume was the contract 
price of €2,700 for Contract 1.
The businesses involved
Various businesses are mentioned in connection with Contract 1.
The supplier in the context of a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is the party to the transaction  
financed by the credit agreement who isnt the debtor. In this case, thats A Vacation  in the Sun by 
Agentes Canarios  S.L.  which Ill call Agentes Canarios from now on.
However, the contract refers  to three separate services, provided by three distinct businesses:
The Leisure Time Passport provided by Interval International.
I appreciate that the terms and conditions Ive mentioned above say the membership 
program is offered by Worldwide Vacation & Travel  Inc. (WVT), but an online search  shows 
that Interval International and WVT share (or shared)  an address in Florida, and that WVT 
may have been a subsidiary of Interval Internationals parent  organisation in 2012. And in 
promotional material available  online, a membership  programme offered by 
Interval International includes benefits that are administered by [WVT] d/b/a Interval Travel  
d/b/a means  doing business as. Theres clearly some connection between Interval 
International and WVT. As I dont think it makes  a material difference  to the outcome of this 
complaint, I dont think I need to clarify exactly  what  that relationship is or was in 2012.
The cruise voucher  provided by Vacation Promotions International (VPI). As Mrs L hasnt 
mentioned this as part of her complaint, Ill say no more  about it.
Accommodation as described  in this contract, provided by The Company.
This is indicative of how poorly drafted the contract is.
First, theres  no accommodation described  elsewhere in the contract. (Above, Ive set out in 
full the five contractual terms.)
Second, The Company isnt defined. For the purpose of this decision,  Ill assume it means 
Agentes Canarios.
That said, Agentes  Canarios, Grand Holidays, Fuerteventura Life, and Hotel  Flamingo all 
appear to be connected. Aside  from the various cross-references in the paperwork, an online 
search shows: the website for A Vacation in the Sun was owned by Grand Holidays at the 
time; and, Grand  Holidays and Fuerteventura Life are or were both registered with Spains 
Central Mercantile Register, they have more than one company  officer in common, and they 
both list the Hotel Flamingo in Adeje as their address.  And on balance,  I think  the payment to 
A.C. Flamingo Adeje  Casco was, in effect, a payment  to Agentes Canarios.
In the context  of section  75, when the supplier isnt the provider of the service, the creditor may not 
be liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract: it will depend on the precise contractual 
arrangements between  the debtor, the supplier and the provider of the service  and whether or not 
the supplier  and provider of the service are associates as defined by section 184 of the CCA.
In this case, Agentes Canarios was the supplier and the provider of a service  even if its unclear 
exactly what  that service was.
Ref: DRN72378986Ill therefore assume,  for the purpose  of this decision, that Bank of Scotland is liable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by Agentes Canarios.
I appreciate that Interval International was also the provider of a service  or services. And although 
theres some evidence  that Grand Holidays  (and therefore Agentes Canarios) and Interval 
International are connected   the Grand Holidays website  refers to the benefits  of being a 
Grand Holidays Club member with Interval International and makes repeated references to 
Interval International  it doesnt look like theyre associates as defined by section 184 of the CCA. I 
dont know anything about their contractual arrangements, and I havent had the benefit  of 
submissions from Bank  of Scotland or Mrs L on whether the scope of Bank of Scotlands liability  is 
therefore limited. However, as I dont  think it makes  a material difference to the outcome  of this 
complaint, Ill proceed on the basis that its liability  isnt limited.
And on this basis, Ill consider Mr and Mrs Ls specific complaint points.
The alleged  misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is a statement of fact by one party to a contract, which isnt true and which 
persuades the other party to enter into the contract.
Mr and Mrs L says Agentes Canarios misrepresented  the benefits of the Leisure Time  Passport. They  
say they were told it would allow them to buy holidays at a significant  discount.  Im quite sure this is 
what they were  told. After all, the 1-page  letter  addressed to Leisure Time Passport member, which 
Ive mentioned above, says exactly that:
As a member  of Leisure Time Passport you also have access to the following  fantastic 
benefits

International hotels   50% discount  at over 5,000 hotels around the world. Plus up to 
20% off dining and leisure attractions in USA and Canada.
Leisure Breaks  50% discount on accommodation in the UK and Ireland  plus 
savings on European  coach  trips and ferry fares in Ireland.

However, on the evidence Ive seen, I dont  think  I can safely say this statement isnt true.
Mr and Mrs L say they tried to use the Leisure Time Passport  to book a holiday in Devon and were 
told it would cost £700.  They say they found the same  holiday online for less than £400.
Unfortunately, theyre  unable to provide any written evidence. Mr and Mrs L say it was the same hotel, 
on the same  days. But that doesnt mean it was the same holiday. The rooms may have been 
different, the more expensive  quote may have  included additional benefits,  etc. As Im unable to 
compare the two quotes,  I dont know if Im comparing  like-for-like. Second, even if the holiday  was 
the same or very similar, a cheaper  online price doesnt mean  the initial  quote didnt include a 
discount  the online  price may have just included  a larger discount.  Again, without knowing more, I 
cant say. On their own evidence, Mr and Mrs L tried to use the Passport just once. I simply  dont 
know if this was a one-off,  indicative of something more from which I could  infer that the benefits  were  
misrepresented or a difference in price because the services were different.
Im therefore  unable  to conclude that the benefits  of the Leisure Time  Passport  were misrepresented.
Mr and Mrs L also say the one-week European holiday  and the one-week worldwide  holiday they 
were given as gifts  to encourage  them  to join the scheme were misrepresented.
First, they say they had to pay a registration fee, so the holidays werent  free.
Ref: DRN72378987When Mrs L wrote to Bank of Scotland on 19 February 2015, she said they paid £228 in registration 
fees. When Mr L spoke to one of our adjudicators on 21 November 2018, he provided  more detail. 
Before they successfully booked  a free holiday to Tenerife, they twice tried to book a holiday  
elsewhere. They  had to pay a processing  fee of £69.50  per person the first time, and £44.50 per 
person the second time. Apparently, this was because they wanted to go further afield. They  made 
the payments by cheque, and the money wasnt refunded even though they didnt book a holiday.  
When they successfully booked  the holidays to Tenerife and Malta, they didnt have to pay a 
processing fee.
The 1-page  letters Ive mentioned above  dont  say the holidays are free   but they do refer to them  
as a gift, which is the same thing. And I think its very likely they were told orally that the holidays 
were free.
I dont know why they had to pay the processing  fees,  why they werent  refunded when  the holidays  
werent booked or why they didnt have to pay them when they actually booked  a holiday.  But even  if I 
accept that they were  payable in any event  and I dont know that they were  I think the statement 
that the holidays  were  free was, if not entirely correct, substantially correct. The accommodation and 
flights, by far the most expensive part of any holiday, were free  a point  Ill return to below. And even 
if the sales  person  said the holidays were completely  free, I dont think  the difference  between  what 
was represented and whats correct  that a small processing fee was payable  would have made 
any difference to Mr and Mrs Ls decision to join the scheme.
Second, Mr and Mrs L say they were unable  to book a holiday to where they wanted to go. In the end, 
they went  to Tenerife and Malta.
In the letter she sent Bank of Scotland on 19 February 2015, Mrs L said the holidays were essentially 
cancellation holidays  and they had to be prepared to travel at short notice from any airport to any 
destination. And she said:  The only way around this was to pay for the flights  ourselves although the 
accommodation would still be free. Mrs L said they were told the destination would  be largely up to 
them, but so many obstacles were  put in the way they ended  up going where the company wanted 
them to. Mr L told us they wanted to go to Thailand,  Goa or Bali, but when they proposed dates, those  
destinations werent  available. He said the Canary Islands were available, but on difficult dates like 
2 January.
I can appreciate  that Mr and Mrs L were disappointed that their preferred  destinations  werent 
available when they hoped to go away. However,  the 1-page letters they were  given specifically say 
the accommodation  is subject to availability. And the free flights  offered may have been impractical 
or inconvenient for Mr and Mrs L, but they were  offered  free flights.
The holidays  may not have  been what Mr and Mrs L expected,  but I havent seen enough evidence to 
safely say the sales person said something that wasnt true.
Finally, the sales person  may not have  told Mr and Mrs L that theyd have to attend a 3-hour  
presentation  although both letters say: This week is booked  through one of the many  outside 
promotional companies with whom we have special arrangements for our trial members.
However, not saying something isnt the same  as saying  something that isnt true and, except in very 
specific circumstances which I dont think apply here, it isnt a misrepresentation.
I know Mr and Mrs L will be very disappointed with my decision. However, I simply havent seen 
enough evidence  to conclude that either the benefits  of the Leisure Time Passport  or the free 
holidays were misrepresented.  As a result, I dont think it was unfair  for Bank of Scotland to reject 
Mrs Ls claim under section 75 of the CCA.
Ref: DRN72378988my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think it was unfair for Bank of Scotland  Plc to reject Mrs Ls 
claim under  section 75 of the CCA.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 16 March 2021 change my mind, I wont tell it to pay 
Mrs L any compensation.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7237898