K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2004 at the same time as taking out a loan. They  applied  
for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 120-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £107.31 
with the PPI costing  an additional £11.13  making the total monthly repayment £118.44. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ss monthly loan repayment 
for up to 60 months in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event 
of unemployment.  
At the time,  Mr S says he was employed  as a warehouse operative.  But BOSs records  from 
the time of sale shows he was employed  as a HGV  driver albeit  for the same  employer. As 
that record is from the time of sale, I think its more likely to be right and he was employed as 
a HGV driver. Mr S has told us he was entitled  to sick pay, redundancy pay and death in 
service benefit through his employer. He also says he had some savings that could have 
been used towards  repaying their loan should  he be unable to work.  Mr S has said he had 
he suffered from a childhood  ailment  many years  before the sale. 
Mrs S was not covered by the policy. Mrs S says she was employed as a customer assistant 
although BOSs  records from the time of sale shows she was employed as a factory worker.  
Again, as that evidence is from the time of sale, I think its more likely to be right and Mrs S 
was employed as a factory worker. Mrs S says she was entitled  to some sick pay provided 
by her employer, and she also had some  savings that could have been used towards 
repaying their loan should she be unable  to work.
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN75623102The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN75623103This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN75623104-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs S applied  for their loan and PPI in a branch. I have seen a copy of the 
application form that was prepared and completed  during this meeting. The entries  made on 
the forms in branch meetings normally reflect the discussions and answers customers gave 
during the branch meeting.
On Mr and Mrs Ss form, there is a separate section for PPI. This set out the monthly  cost of 
the PPI and asked  customers  if they wanted  PPI cover. There was a Yes option for 
customers to select  if they wanted  PPI and a No box if they didnt want it. On Mr and Mrs Ss 
form, an X has been placed  in the Yes box indicating they wanted cover. As there was a No 
option immediately  next to the Yes box, I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve known they couldve 
declined PPI and therefore that it was optional. Mr and Mrs S have also signed this form, 
agreeing to the contents on the form and confirming the selections made. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says that advice  was provided during this sale. Mr and Mrs S disagree. Looking  at what  
happened when  BOS sold Mr and Mrs S the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided advice. I say 
this because from what Ive seen of other sales made in branch, advice was usually  provided  
So I think its likely Mr and Mrs Ss sale was also advised. 
This means  BOS had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. It seems Mr and Mrs S cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr S would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest BOS  considered  whether Mr S had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN75623105Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr S (as the only person covered under the policy)  met the eligibility criteria for the 
policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability to 
continue to meet their loan repayments would  have been put under strain if Mr S was 
not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the employee benefits 
and savings he says he would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ss employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr S has told 
us about a childhood ailment he experienced many years before the sale. But he 
hasnt told us he had any ongoing  issues with this once  he recovered from it as a 
child. So, I dont think condition made the policy unsuitable for him. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BOS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr S was unable to work through  accident, sickness and disability) and of the costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
The application form they signed  did have the actual cost on there at the time they bought 
the PPI. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs S agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded BOS  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs S. Im not persuaded  BOS  gave  Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN75623106Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ss. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that BOS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs S. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policy, had BOS  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs S says they wouldnt have taken  it out and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN75623107return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised  them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their loan payments in the event Mr S was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs S were  given about  the cost was 
clear. BOS told Mr and Mrs S the exact premium at the point they applied for the policy as it 
was set out in the application  form they signed.  So, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S found 
the cost unacceptable as they had been  given the exact figure during the meeting in which 
they agreed to the policy.
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded BOS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs S would get back  in return  in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Ss expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  or for which he had 
seen or arranged to have  seen  a doctor during  the 12 months prior to the start date 
of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr S was eligible for its benefits  and it 
Ref: DRN75623108provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr S says he had a medical 
condition some time before the policy  was taken out, and the policy  wouldnt have provided  
cover had he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information 
about this exclusion  would have put them  off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr S hasnt 
told us he had any ongoing issues with this after he recovered from this condition as a child.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
S might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs S, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs S had known Mr S could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out 
the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  was Mr S made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Ref: DRN75623109Mrs S found  themselves  in as result  of the sale was the same position  they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S thinks BOS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. Whilst  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2004  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BOS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs S and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7562310