K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc shares  his details with credit reference  agencies 
and hasnt explained why it does so. 
background
Mr H took out an investment product  with HSBC. The terms and conditions of the product  
included a privacy  notice which highlighted how his data would be used. This said that his 
information may be provided to credit reference agencies.  
Mr H asked HSBC not to report his information to credit reference agencies.  Hes concerned  
that every  purchase he makes is reported  on. He said that sending his information to credit  
reference agencies  on a monthly  basis increases the risk of his information being  stolen. He 
mentioned that people  have been refused credit because of a wrong postcode or a missed  
direct debit from decades ago. He explained  that he doesnt have a mortgage  or a loan with 
HSBC; repays his credit card in full; and only occasionally uses his overdraft  (and only for a 
short time).
Mr H says that HSBC has a requirement to assess creditworthiness  but not to violate his 
privacy by sharing  every  transaction he makes. He said HSBC told him it was required to 
send banking details  to credit reference agencies and that it suggested he should  close  his 
account if he didnt  want this to happen.  
HSBC has said that it only sends specific information about  its customers and doesnt 
provide all transactional  information. It said this information is used by all financial institutions 
in the UK for various reasons, including  confirming identity, for lending purposes,  and for 
preventing and detecting  fraud.  So HSBC  said it hasnt made an error  by reporting Mr Hs 
information. 
Mr H would like HSBC to stop sending his details to credit  reference agencies and to admit  
that its misleading customers.  
Our investigator considered this case. She explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
could look into Mr Hs individual complaint about  HSBC but not into his wider concerns  about 
the banking system (because were not a regulator). She didnt think HSBC  had done  
anything wrong  by reporting information to credit  reference agencies so doesnt think its 
acted unfairly. 
Mr H disagrees.  He thinks HSBC has been misleading in its communication with him. He 
doesnt think HSBC  has a regulatory  requirement  to share his data, though  it says it does; 
and is unhappy  that it refuses to explain what this requirement is. So the complaint has been  
passed to me. 
Ref: DRN79269172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding on this case, my role is to consider Mr Hs individual complaint against  
HSBC. Its not for me to comment  on how this complaint could relate  to other  customers. Our 
service generally doesnt comment  on the internal processes and procedures of a firm, or 
the banking industry  as a whole. We are not the industry regulator; our role is to adjudicate 
on specific disputes about financial services. So my decision  is about  whether HSBC has 
done something wrong by reporting Mr Hs data and information  to credit reference 
agencies. 
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, I dont uphold his complaint  Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at whether HSBC made it clear it would be reporting to credit reference agencies.  
HSBCs privacy notice has a section  on who it may share information with. It explains that it 
may share information,  where its lawful to do so, in a number of situations. These include:
-Where it has a public  or legal  duty to do so, such as to assist  with detecting and 
preventing fraud, tax evasion and financial crime;
-Where it has a legitimate business  reason for doing so, such as to manage risk, to 
verify identity etc;
-Where it needs to in order to provide  products and services  requested.
In the applicable terms and conditions  it says You explicitly consent to us accessing, 
processing, and retaining any information you provide to us, for the purposes  of providing 
payment services to you  You may withdraw this consent  by closing your account
Im satisfied that HSBC  has made it clear that it would be sharing  Mr Hs information, and the 
reasons why it would  be doing this. By consenting  to the terms and conditions  of his 
account, Mr H has given  his consent to HSBC  to access, process  and retain his information.  
And HSBC  has explained  that hell need to close his account to withdraw his consent. I dont 
think HSBC has acted  wrongly here. 
I also havent been given any evidence to suggest  that HSBC  has reported information  
incorrectly or used or shared any information  inappropriately. So I cant say that its caused 
Mr H any detriment or that its behaved  in a way that is unfair  or unreasonable.  
Mr H thinks its misleading to say that it may share information with others, when it will 
share information. But I dont think this is inappropriate  to say. HSBC has explained that it 
only sends specific information relating  to customers and doesnt provide all transactional  
information relating  to accounts and financial history.  So I think its more factually accurate to 
say that it may share information with others  HSBC is unlikely to send all information to 
others.
Ref: DRN79269173So based  on all the evidence and arguments, I dont  think  HSBC  has done anything  wrong  
here. I wont  be asking it to do anything differently. And its likely that it will continue  to share 
information for legitimate purposes  and in line with the terms and conditions of the contract 
 while  Mr H holds an account with it. Mr H is free to take his custom elsewhere. But in my 
experience, it seems likely that all comparable service providers will operate on a similar 
basis for similar reasons. So if Mr H maintains  that such practices are unlawful or contrary to 
his rights,  then I am afraid he will need  to take this up with appropriate  regulators,  such as 
the Financial Conduct Authority  or Information Commissioner. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7926917