K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr P says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mr P that he had a choice  about  it. But 
Mr P says he didnt know that PPI had been  added  to his account.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr Ps application form for the credit card. This included a box 
with a cross  in it to show that Mr P wanted to take out PPI. And Mr P signed the form to say 
he agreed to it.
The cross appears to be pre-printed. But, based on what I understand about Halifaxs sales  
practices at the time, I think its likely that there was a conversation  between  it and Mr P 
before the application form was printed out. And that Halifax wouldve made it clear  in this 
conversation that Mr P had a choice about  the PPI. So I think  the cross  wouldve been 
printed in line with Mr Ps wishes.
Mr P says the form was completed by the Halifax advisor and that he just signed  where  he 
was told to. But Mr P has a responsibility  to read any form he is asked to sign.  And he 
shouldnt have signed the form if he didnt  agree  to what it said.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Halifax did make it clear  to Mr P that he 
had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr P chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr P, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was.
Mr P says he was self-employed at the time of the sale.  Halifaxs  evidence from the sale 
suggests otherwise.  But, even  if Mr P was self-employed, the PPI policy wouldve covered 
him. And it wouldnt have  made it significantly more difficult for him to claim than for an 
employed person.
Mr P also says he had savings and a separate insurance policy, so he didnt need the PPI. 
But he hasnt been able to give us any further  detail about how much  savings he had at the 
time. And it appears that the insurance policy he mentioned  covered  different risks to the 
PPI.
The PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. And I dont think theres enough 
evidence for me to say that Mr P had sufficient savings or other means  to make the PPI 
unsuitable for him. So I still think the PPI was right for him.
Ref: DRN72682182As well as checking it was right for him, Halifax had to give Mr P clear information  about the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave him wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would  have been  useful  for 
Mr P if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr P off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr P paid on his policy   and whether Halifax  treated 
him unfairly.
Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr Ps policy  was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Halifax has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ps commission  was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr P about the commission   so 
I dont think Halifax treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr P back  any of 
the commission he paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268218