K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy with the way Nationwide Building  Society has dealt with him.
background
Mr C says he called Nationwide on 26 August 2018 to tell it that he was going to be a little 
late making that months minimum  payment. He phoned at around 8.20am  on a Sunday  and 
is unhappy that he was put on hold for around 40 minutes until his call was answered just 
after 9.00am.  Only then was he told the service didnt open until 9.00am. He thinks he 
shouldve been  told this in a message. 
Nationwide said that Mr C mayve  been left on hold for 40 minutes depending on the options 
he chose when coming through on the phone.  But it had refunded  a late payment fee and 
paid him £25 compensation. Mr C had accepted that outcome. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld as Nationwide  had dealt with Mr C 
fairly. She said:
Nationwide says when  Mr C called  its systems  checked his card and routed his call 
through to its out of hours customer services operated by its fraud team. As the two 
people from that team who could deal with Mr C were busy he was put on hold until 
one was free. His call was answered  after 9am when more  appropriately experienced 
staff came  on duty. Although Mr C was given the impression in the call that hed been 
queuing for a closed  department that wasnt the case. If a suitable staff member had 
been available before 9am his call wouldve been answered when they became 
available.
Nationwide accepts  Mr C was on hold for around 40 minutes.  But there will be fewer 
advisors available out of hours  which may result in longer  waiting times.
Mr C told Nationwide  his payment might be late. But the accounts terms and 
conditions say if a payment  isnt made  on time a late payment fee will be charged.  
And its up to Nationwide to decide  if it wishes not to charge this fee. It wasnt obliged 
to agree to do so in the call.
Since Mr C has complained Nationwide has refunded the late payment fee and paid 
him £25 compensation to apologise for the experience hes had. This is fair and 
reasonable and she cant ask it to do anything more.
Mr C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He wants  more 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73797542I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Its unfortunate Mr C was given the impression hed been put on hold for a closed service  
when in fact he was in a queue waiting for available staff who could deal with his query  in an 
out of hours team. 
Mr Cs call was answered shortly  after 9am when more suitable staff came  on duty and 
Nationwide has confirmed  that it wouldve been answered earlier if a suitable member  of 
staff had become  available. 
Although I understand Mr Cs frustration at what happened I dont think  Nationwide  did 
anything wrong  not least  as he called it on a Sunday and out of normal  hours.
Nationwide was also entitled under the terms and conditions of the account to apply a late 
payment fee. And it wasnt obliged to agree to waive  it when Mr C spoke to its advisor.  
Even so I note Nationwide  has since agreed  to refund the late payment fee. And its paid £25 
compensation for Mr Cs experience with it.
I accept that Mr C has been frustrated and slightly inconvenienced by the way Nationwide  
dealt with him particularly when  he had to hold on the phone  for an operative for 40 minutes. 
But such  a delay doesnt seem particularly unreasonable when calling out of hours on a 
Sunday when  limited  suitable staff will be on duty.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think Nationwides  
refund of the late payment  fee and payment of £25 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
resolution of this complaint.
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably require Nationwide to do anything  more 
including paying  more compensation as Mr C would like. And I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7379754