K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold him a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments.
background
Mr D applied for a credit  card over the internet in 2001. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit  card repayments.  The policy cost £0.59 per £100 of the balance on 
Mr Ds credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr D was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld because  he thought Mr D 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and although he didnt think  
Canada Square  had provided all the information they needed  to he thought Mr D wouldve 
still taken the policy  as it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr D disagrees.  He says he didnt need  the policy and it was put on his account  without his 
knowledge or consent. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with our adjudicator  and Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint. I think our adjudicator has given a thorough view on Mr Ds complaint so in my 
decision the focus will be on Mr Ds main complaint points. 
The PPI was applied  for online when Mr D applied for a credit  card.  Canada  Square have 
given us a copy  of the screen shots  of the application form Mr D wouldve seen and 
completed when  he applied for his credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what  it protects against. 
Directly under this it says Please choose one of the following and gives the customer  
the option to either select:
Yes, I want to protect my repayments;  or 
No, I do not wish to protect my repayment 
Canada Square  say Mr D wouldnt  have been able to continue  with the application  without 
selecting one of these options.  I think because Mr D had PPI its likely  he selected to take 
PPI. If Mr D didnt  want to take out PPI he couldve selected not to take the cover.  So I think 
its likely  Mr D understood he had a choice in taking  out the PPI and chose to take it 
because he wanted  the cover - though I can understand given the amount of time since  the 
sale why he may not remember this.
Ref: DRN72342172Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont  think  Canada Square  advised Mr D 
to take PPI. What  this means is that Canada Square  didnt recommend PPI to Mr D, they 
just gave him information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so he could  make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I can see the cost of the policy  is shown on the application form. But I cant  say whether all 
the proper information needed  was given. That being said even if Canada  Square did give all 
the information Mr D needed to make  an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he 
wouldve still taken the policy  because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr D says he was entitled  to a good level of sick pay but had no 
other means  of making his repayments  if he was unable  to work or lost his job. But the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer. So I cant 
see how knowing this information wouldve  put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr D and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr D on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against  Canada Square 
Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7234217