K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy about a default  that Bank  of Scotland plc via its Halifax  division (the 
bank) has registered against her. 
background
Miss H took out a loan from the bank  in 2013. It was to run for 62 months  with no payments 
in the first two months. Miss H cancelled  her direct debit two months early. So she missed  
the last two payments.
The bank wrote to Miss H about the missing payments.  But Miss H didnt receive  the letters 
in time. This was because she hadnt  updated her address  with the bank.  As Miss H hadnt  
paid what she owed,  the bank registered  a default  against her. 
Miss H has offered to pay what she owes if the bank agrees  to remove  the default. She says 
shed always paid what was due, and the bank also had her mobile phone number and email  
address by which to contact her. She thinks its unfair that her credit record should be 
blemished in these circumstances.
The bank has refused to remove the default. It says it was Miss Hs obligation under her loan 
agreement to update her address promptly. The default shouldnt  be removed as its an 
accurate statement of the position. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Hs complaint. She didnt think the bank had done 
anything wrong. She noted it was Miss Hs responsibility to update her address. She also 
said it was the banks responsibility to report correct information to credit reference agencies.  
As the bank received no response  to its letters and the debt wasnt  paid,  the bank registered 
the default. 
Miss H has asked for a review of her complaint by an ombudsman. She remains firmly of the 
view that the fairest  outcome  in the circumstances is for the bank to remove the default if she 
pays whats owed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I 
havent upheld  her complaint. 
I think two questions are particularly important:
Was there a default?
Was it fair for the bank to register the default, and is it fair for the bank not to remove 
it now?
Default?
Ive concluded  there  was a default. Under  a loan its the debtors responsibility to meet the 
required payments. The loan agreement stated the loan would last for 62 months, there 
would be 60 monthly  payments,  and the first payment would be taken  two months after the 
loan started.  
Ref: DRN79266982Miss H mistakenly cancelled her direct  debit after 60 months,  so the last two monthly 
payments werent  made. I accept that was a mistake  on her part and she was able to make 
the payments,  but the mistake wasnt caused  by the bank. A default still occurred. 
Any unfairness?
Unfairness would occur if the bank treated Miss H any differently from how it would treat any 
other customer in a similar position. I dont think thats happened here.
In this sort of situation its the banks  practice to write to the customer first. Thats  what the 
bank did in this case. It was entitled  to assume  it had Miss Hs correct  current address. It 
was Miss Hs responsibility to update her address. If shed done so, she would have 
received the banks correspondence. 
I note the bank has said it also tried unsuccessfully to contact Miss H by phone. But I dont 
think fairness required it to do so, or to email Miss H (which  the bank says it wouldnt do 
anyway for security reasons). It was enough  to write to Miss H at her last known address. 
I think its important to re-state the banks responsibility to report the correct information.  Its 
then up to any potential  lender to decide  what importance it attaches to the information, in 
the light of any explanation the potential debtor provides. It is of course the case that lenders 
are interested in all cases where the debtor has failed to make the due payments, including  
cases where the debtor fails to make  them by forgetfulness, by mistake  etc. 
As I dont think the bank  treated Miss H any differently, or that there  are any special 
circumstances of Miss Hs case that ought  to require the bank  the remove the default,  it 
follows that I dont  find the bank has treated Miss H unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7926698