K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs G said she didnt remember the PPI being  mentioned and didnt agree to take the 
policy. Halifax has said it would have made the optional nature of the policy  clear  and 
would have got Mrs Gs consent  to add the policy. Where theres a dispute  about what  
happened, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  
taking into account all the evidence thats  available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Mrs Gs personal details 
have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected   whilst other 
equally prominent products have not. From what we know more  generally about how 
Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely  there would  have been  a conversation 
with the Halifax  representative about  PPI prior to the details being entered on the 
application and Mrs G has signed the application  so I think  this reflected what  she 
wanted. If she didnt  want the PPI she could  have questioned this at the time. 
PPI would also have  appeared  on Mrs Gs monthly  credit card statements and if this was 
something she had not agreed to then I would  have expected her to question this sooner 
than she did. So overall I think  Halifax made  Mrs G aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and she agreed to take the policy at the time.  
From  what I have  read and been told I think Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mrs G so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including  what she has told us about her sick 
pay. Mrs G has said she wouldve got six to twelve months sick pay. But this policy  couldve 
paid Mrs G a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if she was unable to work and this 
wouldve been in addition to any sick pay Mrs G mightve had. It wouldve also covered her if 
she lost her job for up to 10 months. 
Ref: DRN71433542Mrs G also said she could have relied  on her family to help with the repayments if needed 
but peoples circumstances can change and they may not have  been  in a position  to help 
when needed  and it was ultimately  Mrs Gs responsibility to make the repayments  so I 
think she couldve found the policy useful. And these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mrs G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7143354