K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that Society of Lloyds  underwriters are unfairly seeking to deprive her of 
compensation recovered from her former  employer.
Ms Ts legal expenses policy is underwritten by certain underwriters at the Society of Lloyds, 
and references  to the underwriters in this decision should be taken as also including  the acts 
or omissions  of their intermediaries and agents.
background
Ms T holds a legal expenses insurance  policy with Society of Lloyds (the underwriters).  
She made a claim in January 2017  for assistance with a dispute against her former  
employer, for which she had already been  receiving  legal advice from her solicitors  
(Firm S) since August 2016.  
The underwriters agreed to cover Ms Ts claim and apportion  liability in conjunction with two 
other insurers that she held legal expenses  cover with. The underwriters initially agreed  to 
cover 40% of Ms Ts costs, with the remaining 60% being  covered between Insurer  B and 
Insurer C. But Insurer B subsequently withdrew  their cover in July 2017, so Society  of 
Lloyds agreed  to cover two thirds of Ms Ts claim, with Insurer  C covering the remaining 
third. 
Ms T chose to continue  to be represented by Firm S  with whom shed already incurred 
around £18,000 in legal  costs before her insurance  claim  was accepted   rather  than using 
any of the underwriters panel solicitors.  The underwriters  agreed to this and Firm S signed 
their terms  of appointment on 17 March 2017,  by which point Ms T had already referred  her 
dispute to the Advisory,  Conciliation  and Arbitration  Service (ACAS). 
Firm S were involved in ongoing discussions with Ms Ts former employer, and an offer of 
settlement was made on 14 August 2017  for £30,000. Ms T was not inclined to accept  this 
offer, but the underwriters wanted to ask counsel to consider it and provide  advice  on 
whether it was reasonable, as it fell within the bracket of reasonable damages  set out in 
counsels initial advice. But Firm S explained  that counsel was away and not contactable 
until 20 August 2017. And given that they were working within very limited  time constraints, 
the solicitors did not want to wait for any further input from counsel, particularly as they were  
of the opinion that the prospects of success relating to Ms Ts case  had improved since 
counsels initial advice.
Firm S subsequently  made a counter offer on 17 August 2017 to Ms Ts former employer of 
£80,000, consisting of termination and injury  to feelings payments. This was forwarded 
onto the underwriters on the same day, who said that they still had concerns and wanted 
counsels involvement, as well as an update  on the costs that been incurred so far. However, 
the underwriters told Firm S that they were duly authorised to make the £80,000 counter 
offer if they believed  it to be reasonable and acceptable  with the caveat that counsel  be 
consulted when once  they returned to chambers. 
Society of Lloyds then didnt hear anything until Firm S wrote to them  on 5 September  2017 
to confirm that Ms Ts claim had since been  settled for £65,000, which  was broken  down  in 
three parts: £30,000 for termination of employment, £15,000 for injury to feelings, but also a 
£20,000 contribution towards Ms Ts legal costs, 
Ref: DRN78381412A payment for legal  costs  had not initially been factored into the initial £80,000 counter offer,  
but Ms T said the settlement was structured in this way in order  to be tax efficient, and to 
enable her to benefit from an income  tax exemption on litigation costs. By this point, she had 
incurred £24,194.64 in costs that were  not covered by her insurers,  of which  £17,871.60  had 
been incurred  prior to the acceptance of her claim, and £6,872.23 of which was incurred in 
top up fees to make  up the shortfall  of Firm Ss costs that the underwriters were  not willing to 
cover. 
The underwriters wrote to Firm S on 15 September 2017, noting  that the settlement included  
£20,000 compensation for legal costs,  which they stated would be deducted from their final 
liability to cover Ms Ts costs. Firm S argued that this had not been agreed, and that the 
structuring of the agreement and payment towards Ms Ts legal costs was only done for the 
purpose of efficient tax structuring, and to cover the legal costs she had personally incurred. 
The underwriters clarified that they were not seeking to take the full £20,000, but that under 
the terms of the policy, Ms T had an obligation to repay some  of the fees on a proportionate 
basis. And given that there had been  three  insurers sharing the costs at different  dates   
with Ms T also incurring her own costs   the underwriters  proposed  that a costs  draftsman 
be instructed to assess the apportionment  fairly.
Unhappy with this, Ms T brought her complaint to this service  arguing that Society  of Lloyds 
have no claim to any part of her settlement. Particularly, Ms T submits:
The underwriters didnt indicate  at any stage of the settlement  discussions  that they 
intended to recover  any legal costs from the settlement amount, and by their conduct, 
they have clearly waived any right they might have  to claim any recovered costs;
The settlement was intended to cover her costs  prior to the underwriters covering the 
claim, and nothing in the policy states that the insurers costs should take priority 
over those  incurred by the insured.  
Firm S told her that no other  insurer has previously attempted  to take back  any of 
their clients  settlement money  in the past,  and that the employment tribunal does not 
normally award legal costs;
She accepted  a lower settlement under the assumption that she would be keeping 
the entirety of the settlement amount, and this also saved the underwriters significant 
legal costs given  that she settled before the tribunal;
The underwriters adopted an unreasonable stance during the course of the case  
itself which hindered the settlement;
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ts complaint. She thought that the policy terms and 
conditions were clear in that any legal costs recovered should  be paid to the insurer,  and she 
didnt think the underwriters had acted unreasonably in the circumstances. The investigator  
also considered  that the underwriters proposal  of instructing a costs draftsman to apportion 
the £20,000 between the relevant  parties  was fair. Ms T disagreed,  so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same  reasons  as the investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions set out: 
Ref: DRN783814136.3.3 Your responsibilities 
a.You must
iii) take reasonable steps to claim back legal costs and expenses, communication  
costs, employment  tribunal and employment appeal tribunal  fees and, where 
recovered, pay them to the insurer
Im satisfied that the above policy terms are clear  in relation to the obligation placed upon  the 
policyholder to pay any recovered  legal  costs to the insurer if theyre able to be claimed  
back. 
The ACAS agreement sets out that The respondent agrees to pay the claimant the total 
sum of £65,000in  full and final settlement of the claim  the makeup of which  included  
£20,000 inclusive of VAT as a contribution towards the claimants legal  costs . And given 
that the settlement included such a provision  for legal costs, Im satisfied that the 
underwriters have a valid claim  to these under the policy terms and conditions. But Ms T has 
put forwards certain arguments suggesting that it would  be unfair for the underwriters to 
enforce this term.
First, Ms T submits that the underwriters never gave her any indication  that they would look 
to recover costs, and that their conduct  ought  to waive any claim they might have to the 
settlement. I appreciate  that the underwriters may not have made  this explicit in their 
communications, but having reviewed the correspondence between  the parties at the time, it 
doesnt appear that the underwriters were  sufficiently consulted or informed of the settlement 
structure such that they couldve advised Ms T or her solicitors  of the consequences.
I accept that Firm S consulted the underwriters  in relation to the counteroffer  of £80,000. But 
this offer didnt consist of any provision for legal costs  to be recovered.  And neither did the 
initial £30,000 offer made by Ms Ts former employer.  So when the underwriters provided 
authorisation for the solicitors  to make that offer, I wouldnt have expected them  to advise on 
any potential costs  that could eventually be claimed  by the insurer.  
It then wasnt until 5 September  2017 that Firm S told the underwriters  that Ms Ts claim had 
since been settled  for a lesser amount than previously discussed,  and under different terms. 
I cant see that the solicitors consulted  the underwriters in relation to this new settlement, 
which I note is also in breach of policy  term 6.3.5:
 Settlement
b.You must not negotiate,  settle the claim or agree to pay legal costs and expenses  
without our written agreement
Having reviewed the correspondence between  the parties, I can see that the underwriters 
were keen to consult counsel in relation to the previous  offer of £30,000, as well as any 
future counter offers. But given that counsel  could not be contacted, they authorised Firm S 
to make the counter offer of £80,000 if they thought it was reasonable, but this was subject 
to the caveat that counsel be consulted when they return to chambers.
Ref: DRN78381414So in this context,  and given that the parameters and the amount of the settlement had 
changed, I think it was incumbent on Ms T and her solicitors  to seek  further authorisation 
from the underwriters in relation to whether the revised settlement was reasonable. Indeed, 
they were obliged to do this under  section  6.3.5 of the policy,  but failed to do so. Had they 
consulted with the underwriters, they couldve then given a clear indication that they would 
be entitled to a proportion of any recovered legal costs. But as it stands, they were not given 
the chance to do this (or to refer the matter to counsel as requested) as they were not 
consulted. And I also note that in their email of 15 August  2017  the underwriters reserved 
their position under the policy accordingly at this stage  pending  counsels further input.
So while I appreciate that no indication may have been given, the insurers right to the legal 
costs element of Ms Ts settlement is made clear within the policy  terms and conditions.  And 
one of the terms stated  in the underwriters terms of business, which had been signed by 
Firm S, also sets out:
3.7All fee earners  must  have a good  understanding of the policy  wording and its 
operation.
Therefore, Ms Ts solicitors also ought to have known the consequences of structuring her 
settlement to include costs. So I dont consider  it sufficient for the solicitors to say they were 
given no indication that the insurer may seek to claim any recovered  costs when it is clearly 
stated within  the policy document. And I do not consider that the underwriters  are 
responsible, in these  circumstances, for Ms T accepting a lesser  settlement on the 
assumption that she would keep the entire amount,  as it would be for her solicitors to provide 
this sort of advice. I also cannot see that the underwriters gave any contrary  indication  that 
they would  not seek to recover costs  if they formed part of any settlement. So I see no 
reason as to why they should be prevented  from doing so and recovering a proportion  of the 
£20,000, and Im not persuaded that any of the underwriters acts or omissions were such 
that any claim they have  to the settlement ought  to be waived. 
Ms T further argues that the settlement was intended to cover  her costs and her costs alone, 
as she incurred almost £18,000 in legal  fees before the underwriters begun to cover  her 
claim. She also says that there is nothing in the policy to say that the underwriters costs  
should take priority  over hers. I appreciate that the policy does not state the order  or the way 
in which  costs ought to be reimbursed in this scenario. But it does clearly say that there is an 
obligation on the insured  to recover legal costs and pay them to the insurer and the fact 
that the policy doesnt specify a particular order does not, I believe, serve  to make this term 
redundant if another party has also incurred costs towards the same claim.  
However, the underwriters have  acknowledged  that Ms T incurred her own costs  as did 
multiple other parties  which is why they are not seeking to recover the entire £20,000 and, 
given the complexity  of the matter, is why theyve also proposed  to instruct a costs  
draftsman to fairly apportion the £20,000  across all the relevant parties. I appreciate  that 
Ms T has incurred a significant  amount in costs before the insurers  got involved. But I dont 
consider this fact to give her any more of a right to the recovered legal costs  than any of the 
other parties  that have incurred their own costs  in furthering her legal claim. So I think  its fair 
that any costs that have  been recovered ought to be apportioned fairly amongst the relevant 
parties. And given the complexity  involved  in this, I consider it would  be fair and reasonable 
for this apportionment to be undertaken by a qualified costs draftsman as suggested by the 
underwriters. 
Ref: DRN78381415Ms T also says that Society of Lloyds  adopted an unreasonable stance during the course  of 
the case itself which  hindered her case and settlement. Ive considered the correspondence  
sent between  the underwriters, Ms T and Firm S. And on the basis  of this evidence,  Im not 
persuaded that the underwriters have  acted unreasonably. For example, I can see they 
wanted to revert back to counsel in relation to the offers that were being  discussed. But I 
dont think this was unreasonable  given that Firm S were saying the prospects of Ms Ts 
claim had changed  since counsel was last consulted. And I havent  seen anything else that 
would lead me to believe  the underwriters had acted unreasonably throughout the course  of 
Ms Ts claim.
Finally, Ms T has referenced a previous  decision issued by this service (which  was 
referenced by the investigator) as she believes her case  is different to the case  cited. I 
appreciate that Ms Ts case may be different to the decision referred to by the investigator. 
But The Financial Ombudsman Service  is not bound by a court-like doctrine of precedence, 
so ombudsmen are not obliged  to follow previous  decisions (albeit we strive  to be as 
consistent as reasonably  possible  when  faced with similar facts  and evidence).  So the 
outcome of each case will turn on the particular facts of that case, as each case  is decided  
on its individual merits to determine what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
presented, and any previous decisions referred to by this service would be done purely for 
illustrative purposes. So the fact that Ms Ts case is different to that referred to by the 
investigator does not change  my decision not to uphold  this case, which  I have decided  on 
its individual merits.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms T. But in the circumstances,  I consider  
Society of Lloyds to have  acted fairly  and within the scope of the policy terms and 
conditions. And Im satisfied that the underwriters  proposal to instruct a costs draftsman to 
apportion the recovered legal costs is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7838141