K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to cancel a standing  order  she 
asked it to  which resulted  in the amount going  out of her account twice.  She isnt able to 
get the money back and wants Santander to refund  it to her.
background
Ms C went  into a Santander branch on 23 January 2019. She says she asked it to change  
the date of the standing  order for her rent from 29 January to 25 February 2019. She then 
made a faster  payment  for the rent for that month. She checked  the payment  was sent as 
instructed but soon  discovered that another payment had gone out on the original standing  
order date  29 January  2019.
Ms C contacted the letting agency  that received the money but has been unable  to get it 
returned as shes  been informed the agency  has closed down.
She contacted Santander to ask it to return the money. But Santander  said it wouldnt as 
Ms C hadnt  asked it to cancel the standing order but had made a manual payment to the 
letting agent. It said it had tried to recall the money on a best endeavour basis but hadnt 
been successful.  Unhappy with this outcome Ms C brought  her complaint to us.
 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there was no evidence that Ms C had told Santander to cancel the standing order  on 
23 January 2019,  but there  was evidence she instructed it to change the standing  order  from 
14 to 28 January 2019 earlier that month.  So he thought, on balance, that it was unlikely 
another change  would be implanted so soon afterwards and didnt  think Santander had done 
anything wrong. He explained  how Santander  had tried to recall  the funds but Ms C would 
need to try to recover the funds from the recipient.
Ms C disagreed as she believed it was Santanders fault that it proceeded with a standing 
order she asked it not to send, and she wants the money returned.  As no resolution could be 
found the complaints  been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Ms C feels  about  
this matter and I have some sympathy  with her position as shes now significantly out of 
pocket because shes unable to get her money  back from the letting  agency.  But I dont think  
thats Santanders fault  and I know that outcome  will disappoint  Ms C, so Ill explain my 
reasoning. 
Ive seen how Ms Cs rent payment previously left her account around 18th of each  month 
until the two payments were made in January 2019.  I know  Santander has suggested Ms C 
made a manual payment  in January 2019 to make  up for the previous months rent. But 
looking at the previous  months bank statements theres no evidence  to support that 
suggestion. 
And I think  on balance, thats its unlikely someone  would voluntarily pay an extra months  
rent to an agency  representing a private  landlord. So, I think  its highly unlikely Ms C would 
Ref: DRN72161922have made  a faster payment for her rent without ensuring that the existing method of 
payment had been changed. 
Santander on the other hand has said the branch staff didnt remember  Ms C asking to 
cancel a standing  order and that they did discuss making a one off payment to cover  
Decembers rent. Its also said that it advised  Ms C that her original standing  order payment 
for January 2019 would still go through if sufficient funds were available.  And shed only set 
up the standing  order originally to start from January 2019 as shed paid her rent in advance  
to begin with and then used faster payments.  
So I can understand Ms Cs confusion  about  the rent payments and I think  its likely she did 
mean to start afresh in February 2019.  Ive also borne in mind that Ms C made a payment of 
£276.16 (50% of a months  rent) on 14 January 2019  Ms C has told us she was told to pay 
this by the letting  agency   so I think this indicates  further confusion  around the payments 
that needed to be made.  
Santander has provided screenshots of the amendments that were  made  to the standing  
orders. And I can see that the first change to move the payment date to the 28th of each 
month was made on 10 January 2019. Another  change then took place on 25 January 2019  
 to a new payment date of 25th of each month.  So I think this would indicate  as agreed by 
both parties, that there was some  sort of discussion  about the standing  order  being changed. 
But Ms C says she asked  for the standing order to be cancelled. 
So in such cases, where both parties  differ in their recollection of events, then I have to 
decide on the balance of probability  in other words what  I think  was most likely to have 
happened. Its clear  that Ms C gave Santander some form of instruction as Santander 
actioned it twice. So I think its fair to say Santander  would have most likely  done whatever 
Ms C asked it to do  and I think this would have included cancelling the standing order if 
asked. So, because it only amended the dates I think, on balance, this was what Santander 
was asked to do. I know Ms C says that she told Santander to cancel the standing order but 
I think if it had been  told to do that it would have done as it did make amendments to the 
payment date which it would only have done with Ms Cs authorisation.
Ive also taken into account that if Ms C had told Santander to cancel the standing  order  it 
would have done so indefinitely which I dont believe  Ms C wanted to happen. Ive no doubt  
what Ms C wanted to happen   which was to cancel the January standing order  payment 
and make it by faster  payment instead   then for the monthly  payments to resume  in 
February 2019. But I dont think, in all probability, this was the actual request she made to 
Santander. 
Ms C has said that the reason she made the faster payment on 25 January 2019 was 
because she had the money  at that time and therefore asked Santander  to cancel the 
immediate January 2019 standing order payment.  
But I dont think Santander  would have been able to properly cancel the standing order  if it 
was due to continue from 25 February 2019.  And I think it would have  known that, so if it had 
been asked to cancel the standing order I think it would have explained the implications to 
Ms C. 
I dont believe Ms C would have wanted to pay her rent twice in this situation and I dont 
dispute that she intended to resume payments in February 2019  after making a manual 
payment in January. But Ive not seen any evidence to show that she did instruct  Santander 
Ref: DRN72161923to cancel Januarys  standing  order payment and I think, on balance,  that Santander  acted on 
the instructions  it believed  it was given and just amended  the standing  order  dates. 
Its most  unfortunate that the money  was paid to an agency that has subsequently gone out 
of business and Ms C cant get her funds back from them. But Ive seen that Santander did 
send an email to the other bank involved to try to get the funds back. Unfortunately this 
request was declined but Im satisfied that Santander tried  on a best endeavour basis  to 
get Ms Cs money returned. So I think it did what it should have done at that time, and I dont 
think it would  be fair for me, on the basis of what Ive seen, to ask Santander to refund any 
payment to Ms C.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7216192