K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about PPI policy taken out by Mrs F in 2002 in connection with a mortgage. 
The policy provided  Mrs F with cover if she couldnt work because  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions  I need to consider are:
-If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs Fs needs?
-Did Lloyds give Mrs F the information she needed to decide  whether to take out the 
policy?
If there  was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mrs F is worse off as a result.  That is, would  she have done something different  such 
as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt  been  any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs F says she didnt  know  the PPI had been  added to her account,  and that she wouldnt
have agreed to buy it. She says she was presented  with the mortgage  paperwork to sign, but 
that the PPI wasnt  explained to her. Ive noted  everything Mrs F has said.  Ive also looked at 
the paperwork that was completed at the time.
The difficulty  I have  is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs F and Lloyds 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these  events took place many  years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
I note that the PPI was included in the Insurance section of the mortgage application form. It 
seems there were  a number of insurances that Mrs F had to consider before deciding 
whether or not she wanted to take the cover.
Ref: DRN78524042Mrs Fs application  was completed to show that she wanted the PPI. The box to decline it 
was directly underneath the box that was ticked. So I think  it was clear from the mortgage 
application form that the PPI was optional.
So without anything  else to support  what Mrs F has told me, I havent been able to safely 
conclude that Lloyds didnt make her aware  that the PPI was optional.  I accept its possible 
that PPI wasnt discussed  when Mrs F took out her mortgage, but its equally likely that it 
was  although I can understand why Mrs F may no longer remember this.
Lloyds accepts that it advised  Mrs F to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.  I say this 
because:
-Mrs F was eligible  for cover, given  the policy terms and conditions.
-Mrs F says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work 
because of sickness of accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her 
employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer.  Having the policy in place 
would mean Mrs F could use her employer  benefits to pay for other expenses.  So I 
think she wouldve had some use for the policy, despite  her existing arrangements.  
-Mrs F wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits,  
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information  about  the policys  exclusions and 
limitations.
-I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mrs F 
before she agreed to buy it. But Mrs F took out the policy knowing she would have 
to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively  priced and 
apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely Mrs F would have made  a different 
decision if better information about  the cost had been provided.
-Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But as Ive already said, Mrs F wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been  affordable.  So I think  it 
unlikely Mrs F would have made  a different  decision if better information had been 
provided  overall, I think she would still have taken  out the policy.
Ive noted what  Mrs F has said about the mistakes Lloyds made on her mortgage  
application form. I accept  that Lloyds included  a third party on the application form that it 
later had to remove. But Im not persuaded that the error meant that Mrs Fs PPI policy was 
mis-sold.
Ref: DRN78524043my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7852404