K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the service provided to him by Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) when he 
raised an enquiry  with it about his account.
background
Mr B received to his account a sum of money  from a third party. On 16 April 2019 Mr B 
contacted Monzo  to enquire whether this third party  would be able to reclaim any of the 
money it had paid him.
There were a number of exchanges  between  Mr B and Monzo after 16 April (via various 
channels) culminating in Monzo issuing Mr B with a final response letter  (FRL)  on 1 May. In 
this FRL Monzo accepted its service  had been  poor and in recognition of this it had credited 
Mr Bs account with £50.
Unhappy with Monzos FRL, Mr B made a complaint to our service.  Mr Bs complaint  was 
considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Monzo should pay Mr B a further 
£50.
Mr B accepted the investigators conclusion but Monzo didnt. Monzo said that it believed  the 
£50 it had already  paid Mr B was sufficient compensation for its poor service. In support of 
its view, Monzo made reference to a number  of decisions issued by our service in the past 
and one in particular.
The investigator considered Monzos response  to her view but wasnt  persuaded to change 
her mind. Therefore this complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to this case is well known, so I dont repeat it here. Its also not in dispute  
that Monzo accepts its service to Mr B was poor and that he should be fairly compensated 
for that. So in essence what Im required to decide here is what  compensation, if any, Monzo 
should have to pay Mr B over and above  the £50 it has already  paid him.
Im aware of the decision  referred to by Monzo in support of its view that £50 represents  a 
fair compensation sum for Mr B to be paid. But although our service aims to apply a 
consistent approach  to similar complaints, it needs  to be remembered that each case is 
considered on its own facts and merits.
Having considered the facts and merits of this case, and having regard that our awards for 
trouble and upset  (distress and inconvenience)  are designed to reflect  the impact on the 
individual involved, I agree with the investigator that Monzo should have to pay Mr B a 
further £50 by way of compensation.
In coming to this view Ive had regard, amongst other things, to Mr Bs clear anxiety over the 
issue he was seeking clarification and guidance on and that this anxiety was something that 
Monzo was aware  of (even if not immediately).  
Ref: DRN72755062Ive also had regard  to the content of Monzos FRL in which  it said:
Id like to offer you a heartfelt apology that we let you down.  Having reviewed your 
conversation in full, I can see we havent provided the standard of service we want to you 
expect from us. We pride ourselves on delivering excellent customer  service, and so your 
experience has been  a clear reminder that there are areas  where we need  to improve. Id 
like to reassure you that Ive given feedback the individuals handling your query to make 
sure theyre better prepared in the future. Once again Im truly sorry for any distress we 
caused you.
I will be upholding your complaint as we can understand the stress and inconvenience this 
whole experience has caused.
I appreciate Monzo  might be disappointed by my decision. But taking everything  into account 
I find that payment  of a further £50 represents, in the particular circumstances of this case,  a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Monzo Bank  Ltd must pay Mr B a further 
£50 by way of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7275506