K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Premium Plan Limited (PPL)  didnt treat her fairly, when they found out 
she didnt want to voluntarily terminate a hire purchase agreement she had with them.
background
In April 2018, Ms M took out a hire purchase agreement with PPL,  to get a used car. About 
seven months later,  Ms M was living away from her home and didnt need to use the car. So, 
she made arrangements for a third party, who was also a friend, to monitor her bank 
accounts, whilst she was away. Although Ms M gave authority to the third party to act on her 
behalf, she says she didnt allow that person to make  any decisions about her hire purchase 
agreement with PPL.
A few days  after the third party  began to monitor Ms Ms bank accounts, Ms M says she 
changed her mind.  She says she told the third party that she had arranged  for someone else 
to take care of her bank accounts.  However, PPL say the third party subsequently wrote to 
them and arranged  for the hire purchase  agreement  to be voluntarily  terminated.
The voluntary termination meant that PPL took action to collect  Ms Ms car from her home  
and take it to an auctioneers, to prepare  it for being sold.  Ms M quickly  found out about what  
had happened  and managed to contact PPL,  to stop them  from selling the car. PPL agreed 
to stop the sale of the car, but Ms M complained that they hadnt treated her fairly. 
Over the next four months, Ms M and PPL spoke to each other about putting the hire 
purchase agreement  back in place. In order to do so, PPL wanted  to look at the possibility of 
the third party  acting against Ms Ms wishes and to make  sure that Ms M could continue to 
afford the loan repayments. 
Ms M wasnt happy with PPLs  response  to her complaint and asked us to look at how shes  
been treated.  She said that PPL made the mistake, so they should just simply reinstate her 
agreement. Because the hire purchase  agreement remained cancelled during this time, 
Ms M didnt make any repayments towards  it.
Ms M returned to live at her home  at the start of April 2019 and says that PPL could  have 
had her car ready for her to use. So, Ms M says she needed to pay for a hire car, until PPL 
had returned her car. PPL say they agreed  to reinstate Ms Ms hire purchase agreement  a 
week after she had returned  home.  They also agreed to waive two of the payments Ms M 
had missed, whilst the issue was being  sorted out.
PPL returned the car to Ms M in early  May 2019. But, Ms M says she noticed some  damage, 
which wasnt there when  she last had driven the car. She said that some of the paintwork 
had been scratched and some of the door trims  were missing.  Also,  Ms M said there was 
damage to the handbrake switch  and the on-board  computer.  Additionally,  Ms M said there 
was arrears with the road tax on the car, which she shouldnt have to pay, because she was 
planning on storing it, whilst she was away from home.
PPL produced  a report from their agent to show the cars condition, when they collected it. 
Some of the damage  which Ms M had noticed, didnt appear on PPLs report, leading her to 
say it was caused by PPL. Ms M arranged for a diagnostic report  and for the car to be 
repaired. She also continued  to hire a car, until her car was fixed.
Ref: DRN70316332To try and resolve Ms Ms concerns,  PPL reiterated  their offer to waive  two of the missed  
repayments and said they would pay for some of the cost of the hire car. PPL also offered to 
pay for the cost of the diagnostics and for some  of the travel costs Ms M had incurred. 
However, PPL didnt  agree to pay for the repair to a scratch on the side of the car or for the 
repair to the door trim and handbrake.
Ms M didnt accept this and one of our investigators  looked into her case.  They concluded 
that PPL didnt  treat Ms M fairly and that her car could have been returned sooner. The 
investigator said that PPL should waive all the arrears on the hire purchase agreement, 
remove any adverse information  from Ms Ms credit reference agency file and pay for the 
total cost of the hire car. The investigator  asked PPL to pay for the road tax arrears and for 
some of the damage. The investigator  also found  that PPL should pay Ms M £250  for the 
distress and inconvenience they had caused  to her.
Although Ms M accepted  the investigator findings, PPL did not. They said some of the 
damage was already  on the car and that they should only have to pay for half of the hire car 
costs. The investigator  didnt change their conclusions and said PPL had delayed  getting the 
car back to Ms M and returned it with damage. 
PPL didnt accept the investigators further findings  and the case has now been referred to 
me for a final decision.
Since then,  weve  spoken  to Ms M and PPL to explain that although much of what the 
investigator found should remain,  other parts should change.  We said its probably fair that 
Ms M repays the remaining four months  of arrears of her agreement,  since she would have 
had to have paid this anyway, had the car not been collected by PPL.  We also said PPLs 
damage report from December 2018, shows the scratch  which  Ms M says PPL caused. So, 
we said it wasnt fair to ask PPL to pay for that repair.
In reply, Ms M said she only took a photograph of one scratch on the car, when  there was 
two. She said she should be given the benefit of the doubt here. Ms M also said she 
shouldnt have to pay for the car, for the time it was with PPL and they had acknowledged  
that it shouldnt  have been  taken  from her. Further,  Ms M explained that the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered is disproportionate to the amount suggested by the investigator.
PPL also declined  to accept our further conclusions. They said they doubt some  of the things 
Ms M has said and that they needed time to gather her financial details, to help with 
reinstating the agreement. PPL explained that they have gone  above and beyond their 
procedures to return the car to Ms M and put her agreement  back in place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the voluntary termination instruction
Ms M made  plans for the time she spent  living away  from home,  in November 2018. She 
says her plans included asking friend to make sure her finances run smoothly.  Ms M has 
sent us copies of letters  and other messages between her and the third party, who she 
asked to help.  
Ref: DRN70316333Having considered the correspondence very carefully, I think Ms M was happy for the third 
party to help prevent her accounts from entering  into an unauthorised overdraft. But, I dont 
think the authorisation extended to cancelling any long standing  contracts. 
Indeed, the signed  letter PPL has sent to us, explains that Ms M may need  support and 
understanding. I think that meant  the third party would be able to help in certain 
circumstances, like an account entering into arears. So, I agree with Ms M where  she says 
the third party  acted without her authority,  to voluntarily terminate the agreement with PPL 
for the car.
I accept though, that PPL sought to help Ms M, when they were contacted by a third party  
acting on her behalf. I dont think PPL acted unreasonably, when they considered  starting 
the voluntary termination process. However,  I think it would have been prudent for PPL to 
have checked  with Ms M first, before the car was eventually collected. Despite being away 
from home, PPL was still able to contact Ms M. I think there was a reasonable opportunity 
for PPL to have  written to Ms M before the voluntary termination  was put into place. 
The car being taken from Ms Ms home, wasnt an insignificant  event and her agreement 
with PPL hadnt entered  arrears. The authority  letter PPL have provided, told them  of Ms Ms 
personal circumstances. I think there  were  further  options which  PPL could have explored at 
this time, with Ms M. Had PPL done so, I think its likely Ms M would have  explained her 
plans for keeping the car safe whilst  she was living away. I think  more engagement with 
Ms M about her plans would have given PPL a range of alternatives  to offer,  rather than 
voluntary termination.
the time taken to reinstate  the agreement and the arrears
PPL have explained that Ms M wrote  to them on 29 December 2018 and discovered that she 
wanted to stop the voluntary termination.  Two weeks later, PPL wrote  to Ms M to say that 
they had no reason to think the third party wasnt acting on her behalf. They said she needed 
to pay up to half of the cost of the hire purchase  agreement, now that the termination had 
been completed.
On 22 February 2019, PPL stopped the sale of Ms Ms car and asked  for her income and 
expenditure details to put the agreement back in place. Nearly three months later,  and after 
Ms M had sent PPL her financial  details,  the hire purchase agreement was reinstated and 
the car was returned. This means  there was a period of six months where payments werent 
made to the hire purchase  agreement.
PPL have offered to waive two months  of repayments as a gesture of goodwill. Ms M has 
told us that she shouldnt have to pay for the whole time, when the car was taken away from 
her. She also explained to us that she had planned to take the car off the road and store  it, 
until she had returned from living away.
Having considered everything, I think Ms M has been consistent and credible in what  she 
says. I think it was reasonable for her to make plans to store  her car safely,  whilst  she was 
living away  from home. But, had the third party  not voluntary terminated her agreement  with 
PPL, Ms M would still have been  responsible for making payments to it.
I think PPL could  have engaged sooner  with Ms M. Their  early correspondence with her 
focuses on the third party authorisation, rather than addressing the reinstatement  of the hire 
purchase agreement.  I also think it was reasonable for PPL to want to establish  Ms Ms 
Ref: DRN70316334financial circumstances, which they eventually did discuss with her, at the end of February 
2019. But, I dont  think any delay by PPL means  its fair for Ms M to not have to make the 
payments due, under hire agreement. 
In all the circumstances, I think PPLs offer to waive two of the six payments missed under  
the hire purchase  agreement is fair and reasonable. I recognise that this finding places an 
onus on Ms M to make additional payments to PPL.  So, I remind them  that they must treat 
her financial  circumstances positively  and sympathetically.
I can see from Ms Ms correspondence with PPL, that she made efforts to get the agreement  
reinstated, working with her difficult personal  circumstances  at the time. And Ive concluded 
that it was the third party acting without Ms Ms authorisation, who caused the agreement to 
cancel. So, I think its fair for PPL to remove any adverse information  relating to the arrears 
under the agreement, from the information  held about Ms Ms account, with the credit 
reference agencies  they use.
the return of the car to Ms M.
The car was returned to Ms M around  the start of May 2019. Ms M has provided  her notes, 
which were added to the delivery report, where  she recorded: 
-the car being  filthy inside and out;
-faults showing on the cars computer; 
-a cracked handbrake button;
-missing silver  door trims;
-a scratch on the front left door;  and
-the spare key as missing.
Ms M says she didnt feel she should  drive the car, until a mechanic had looked at the 
necessary repairs. She also says the car wasnt in that condition, when she moved  away 
from her home in November 2018.  So, I think it was reasonable for Ms M to want  to know 
that the car was safe to be driven,  given  that she thought it had been damaged, since  she 
had last seen  it.
The collection report from PPLs agent, in November 2018, mentions a scratch  on the near 
side (passenger) front door. The report shows the agent judged the trim and interior  to be 
ok, the car to be clean and that they had recovered  two sets of keys. There  was space on 
the report, for the agent to make additional  comments.  But there isnt mention of any faults 
showing on the computer,  or that there  was a cracked handbrake button.
PPL say that although their agent had completed  the collection report, a full appraisal of the 
car would have been done when at the garage  of an auctioneer.  But, as the car was stopped 
from being sold, the auctioneers report wasnt needed.
Ive thought about what PPL say here. But, Im more persuaded by the report  of the 
collection agent being a reflection of what they thought about  Ms Ms car. I say this because 
the agents report was completed when the car was handed over to PPL and there are 
sufficient questions for the agent  to compete, which allows them to spot similar  faults and 
damage to that which Ms M later identified.
Ms Ms notes on the delivery agents  report  in May 2019, show  that there was a scratch  on 
the left front door. And she has provided  a photograph of a scratch on the passenger  side 
front door. PPLs agents notes from the collection in November 2018, also detail a scratch 
Ref: DRN70316335on the passenger  side front door. I think all three pieces of evidence  refer to the same 
scratch, which means I dont think it was caused when the car was removed from Ms Ms 
home by PPL.
More recently, Ms M has told us that there was a scratch on the drivers side front door, but 
she didnt take a photograph of it at the time and should be given the benefit of the doubt. 
While I acknowledge what Ms M says here,  based  on what all sides have said and sent to 
us, I dont think it would be fair to ask PPL to pay for the repair  to the scratch, Ms M says she 
identified when the car was delivered back to her.
Taking everything into consideration, on balance, I think Ms Ms car was returned to her with 
some damage that was caused after it was collected. The spare  key was eventually  returned 
to Ms M. So, Ive considered what needs  to be done  to put things right. Ms M has provided 
estimates and invoices to show  the cost of the repairs. Namely:
-£281.03 to repair the door trim and handbrake; and
-£688.54 to repair and programme the column control unit.
Im aware that PPL have refunded a diagnostic fee, when Ms M first arranged  for it to be 
looked at. But, I think its fair for PPL to pay for the damage on Ms Ms car, which Ive 
concluded happened after it was collected  from her home in November 2018. Ms M has 
provided estimates and invoices from a dealership who specialise in the make  and model  of 
her car, which total £969.57. So, I think its reasonable that PPL pay Ms M the cost shes 
been quoted or has already paid, to repair her car. 
Ive also thought about the costs Ms M paid for the hire car she used, whilst she was waiting 
for PPL to return her car, and then for the repairs to take place.  Ms M returned from living 
away from home in early April 2019.  She has provided an invoice, for £535.10, to show she 
hired a car from 11 April 2019 until 9 May 2019.  
Ive thought about Ms Ms personal circumstances and I agree she needed to rely on having  
access to a car, when  she returned home.  Ive concluded that Ms M acted reasonably to 
make sure her car was repaired and made safe, after PPL had delivered it back  to her. So, I 
think it follows that Ms M needed to extend the car hire, after her car was returned  by PPL 
on 3 May 2019.  I also think  the type and cost of the car she hired was reasonable.
PPL have already paid Ms M £265  for part of the car hire costs. But, Ive concluded they 
could have engaged with Ms M sooner, to reinstate her hire purchase agreement. And, Ive 
found that PPL retuned the car to Ms M, in a condition where she needed to make repairs.  
So, I think PPLs approach to Ms Ms personal  circumstances,  meant that she incurred 
additional costs  with the car hire, up until 9 May 2019.
In all the circumstances, I think its fair that PPL pays Ms M £360.10, for the remaining costs  
she incurred, for the time she had the hire car.
When Ms M took delivery of her car from PPL in May 2019, she discovered she owed 
arrears for vehicle tax. Ms M has sent us a notice from the DVLA, which  shows a demand for 
road tax, for her car, from February 2019.  So, I agree with Ms M that there were arrears with 
the Driver & Vehicle Licencing Agency (DVLA), over road tax.
Ref: DRN70316336Ms M says that it was her plan to store her car off the road, for the time she spent living 
away from home. She says she planned  this, in order to keep the car secure and to avoid 
paying vehicle  tax costs. 
Ive considered the other plans Ms M put in place for different parts of her day to day life, 
before she moved  away from her home.  Ive also thought about  the facilities  available  to 
Ms M, to help her achieve those plans.  Having considered everything,  on balance, Im 
persuaded that Ms M would not have paid vehicle tax, had the car remained in her 
possession, when she was living away  from her home.
PPL had possession of the car during the time the tax arrears  accrued. I dont think its fair 
that Ms M be held responsible for the tax arrears, when she had made alternative plans. I 
think its fair for PPL to refund Ms M for vehicle  tax arrears shes  paid.
But, Ms M hasnt provided an invoice  or a bank statement to show  shes  paid for the vehicle 
tax arrears, which she says totalled  £50.83. So, I think PPL should refund £50.83 to Ms M, if 
she can show them, she made  a payment  to the DVLA.
Ms M may have  already  paid the repairing garage, the vehicle tax arrears and the hire car 
charges. I think shes been  unable to use that money for anything  else. So, I think  PPL 
should also pay Ms M interest  at an annual rate of 8% simple on these payments, from the 
date they were paid,  to the date this complaint  is settled.
Ive also considered PPLs points, where  they say Ms Ms car hasnt  had a recent  Ministry of 
Transport (MOT) test. Although I accept PPLs concerns are legitimate, I dont think  that 
means Ms Ms credibility or reliability is lessened in the context  of this complaint. I leave it to 
PPL and Ms M to talk separately about  the MOT  test, if their concerns  continue.
the distress and inconvenience  Ms M experienced
When Ms M was living away from her home, her circumstances were such  that she couldnt 
be contacted by phone.  Instead, Ms M had to rely on the post or messages given to PPL by 
a third party. PPLs notes  show they became aware  of Ms Ms personal circumstances at the 
end of November  2018.
Ms M says she explained to PPL that she wanted her car back  and the agreement reinstated  
at the end of December  2018. PPLs letters to Ms M after this date focus on the payment 
Ms M needed to make, to be able to voluntarily terminate the agreement and that they had 
no reason to assume the third party  wasnt acting  with Ms Ms authorisation. There  wasnt  
any acknowledgement from PPL at this point about  a possibility of reinstating the agreement.
What eventually followed, after the complaint had been referred  to us in February 2019, was 
dialogue between  Ms M and PPL about  her income and expenditure details. PPL wanted  to 
talk to Ms M about her ability to continue  with repayments. Their notes show  they accepted 
that Ms M could afford to maintain the repayments  in mid-April 2019.
Ive concluded  that the third party acted without Ms Ms authorisation, to proceed with the 
voluntary termination  of the hire purchase agreement. And I think PPL were in a position 
where they knew about Ms Ms personal circumstances and her wishes concerning  
reinstating the hire purchase agreement, at the end of 2018.  
Ref: DRN70316337I accept it was reasonable for PPL to want to make  sure Ms M could continue to afford the 
repayments, in view of her change in circumstances.  But, I think  PPL could have worked  
with Ms M sooner than they did. I think this caused  distress and inconvenience to Ms M, in 
circumstances that were already very stressful  for her. 
Ive also considered what happened  when  the vehicle was returned to Ms M. Although Ms M 
was able to hire a car, I think she was caused more inconvenience when she discovered  her 
car was damaged  and she needed  to arrange for repairs. 
Ms M has given us a very detailed explanation of the distress she says was caused by PPL. 
She also says the distress  will stay with her for a time to come.  Ive thought  carefully about 
this and the impact  of PPLs delay to engage with her about the reinstatement. I am also 
mindful that the termination of the agreement, by someone she knew,  was contributing to her 
distress. And I cant fairly hold PPL responsible for the actions of that third party.
In all the circumstances, I think its fair that PPL pay Ms M £250  for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced, for the delay in reinstating the hire purchase  agreement and 
for the problems she faced when the car was returned.
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Premium Plan 
Limited should:
1-waive two of the monthly  payments  outstanding on Ms Ms hire purchase  agreement;
2-pay Ms M £360.10 for the remainder  of the costs  she incurred for the hire car;
3-pay Ms M £50.83  for the vehicle tax arrears she incurred, when shes  able to show  
she paid it;
4-pay Ms M £969.57 for the repairs she arranged for the car;
5-pay Ms M interest  at an annual rate of 8% simple on the payments in parts two, three 
and four of this settlement,  from the date they were paid, to the date of settlement;
6-remove any adverse information  related to the current arrears, from the records  held 
by credit reference agencies about  the hire purchase agreement in Ms Ms name; 
and
7-pay Ms M £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
PPL must  pay these  amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Ms M accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.  
If PPL deducts tax from any interest  they pay to Ms M, they should  provide her with a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one. This is so she can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Ref: DRN70316338Sam Wedderburn 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7031633