K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that The Mortgage  Business  Plc (TMB) has treated them unfairly  
following a remediation exercise on their settled mortgaged account.
background 
Mr and Mrs K previously  held a mortgage  with TMB which  was repaid in March  2018 
following it taking possession of the property. Mr and Mrs K have had made a number of 
complaints about  how this was handled  but this complaint is focused on the service received  
following a payment TMB made to Mr and Mrs K after the mortgage account was closed.
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was in joint names  and this means both are entitled to half of the 
benefit of any refund or redress paid in respect of the mortgage account. In August 2018 
TMB needed  to make a payment  to them as it couldnt be applied to the mortgage  account 
balance as this was no longer active and it made this payment as two separate cheque 
payments. Both Mr and Mrs K were sent 50% of the total payment owed to them.
Mr and Mrs K no longer live at the address where the mortgage with TMB was held and as a 
result TMB sought to trace their current address to send this payment out. Mr Ks cheque  
was received and cashed in August 2018  but Mrs Ks cheque was not received.
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs K complained to TMB about this payment. They were unhappy 
with the reasons around how it was calculated  and that it had been split in to two separate 
payments. They  felt these  should have been  paid directly  into the bank account which  the 
mortgage was previously paid from and not sent as a cheque  to each of them  - this had an 
added inconvenience  meaning they needed  to visit a local branch to cash this. They were 
concerned where  Mrs Ks cheque had been  sent and if this had been sent to their old 
address.
Mr and Mrs K also said they had raised  concerns  about this previously but their letters hadnt 
been responded to.
In November 2018 TMB responded  to Mr and Mrs Ks concerns. It said in August 2018 the 
Financial Conduct  Authority asked it to review all mortgages back  to 2010. This resulted in a 
payment being  due to Mr and Mrs K. TMB  said because  the mortgage  was held in joint 
names the payment was split with Mr and Mrs K both receiving 50% of the total payment 
due. This was sent as a cheque payment. TMB  said it was a largely automated process  and 
the cheque was raised as part of this  there  was not option to send payment in another  
way.
It said if Mr and Mrs K wished to update their correspondence address, they could do this by 
visiting a local branch with proof of identification   once this had been  amended  it asked that 
Mr and Mrs K confirm  with it how they wished  to progress with Mrs Ks cheque.
TMB didnt think it had done  anything wrong  with how the payment was raised  and issued, 
but it was unable to trace any prior correspondence  from Mr and Mrs K. To apologies for this 
not being responded to it offered a payment of £75.00 which  was credited to their account.
Mr and Mrs K were  not happy  with this response  and brought  their complaint to this service 
with the following concerns:
Ref: DRN73813882They were unhappy still that the two cheques had been issued instead of the funds 
being paid directly into their bank.  And had concerns about Mrs Ks cheque sill not 
having been received.
They were unhappy with the requirements placed on them  to change their address  
for correspondence.
They didnt think it was fair that the payment of £75.00 was made to their account 
without consent  of it being accepted.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and said that he didnt think  TMB had done  
anything wrong  with how it had organised and issued the payment due on Mr and Mrs Ks 
previous mortgage.  And although the cheque payment method wasnt  as convenient as a 
direct transfer, he didnt think there was anything wrong with this.
He looked at the internal  process TMB operates and applies to all of its customers  for 
changing addresses and correspondence addresses.  Based on this he didnt think  TMB  had 
done anything  wrong in saying this needed to be followed  for Mr and Mrs K to change their 
address. But following  his conversations with TMB it was agreed the address could be 
changed without  Mr and Mrs K visiting a branch and a second cheque  was reissued for 
Mrs K. 
With the address  being changed without the need for a branch visit, our investigator felt this 
could have been done sooner and when  it wasnt, this had added to the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs K had experienced. He felt an award  of £150.00 should be made 
to recognise this. TMB agreed this could  have been  changed sooner and with the 
recommendation of a £150.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Mr and Mrs K havent agreed with this recommendation and feel £1000.00 is fair 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  theyve experienced. Because of this the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I will explain why below.
It is clear Mr and Mrs K have been through  an extremely difficult time over the last few years 
after experiencing financial difficulties. Im sorry for what theyve gone through  and the 
distress this has caused.
While there  is understandably  distress  and worry about everything that has happened, Ive 
focused on what I think has reasonably been caused by TMB as a result  of what happened 
on this complaint alone. So the impact of two cheques being issued as the payment method 
for the remediation exercise on Mr and Mrs Ks old mortgage. And how it handled Mr and 
Mrs Ks requests to change their correspondence  address  and that a payment for distress 
and inconvenience  was paid directly to their account without acceptance  of this offer.
The cheque payments
I dont think TMB did anything wrong when  it issued two cheques as the payment  to Mr and 
Mrs K. This was organised as a result of a backwards looking remediation exercise and 
Ref: DRN73813883involved it looking at a number of mortgage  accounts both open  and closed and its 
reasonable to expect  there will be some automation within this process.
As the mortgage  account was held in joint names,  even if paid by one of the account  holders 
only, both Mr and Mrs K were liable for the mortgage and both entitled to any benefit from it. 
This means  it was correct  for TMB  to issue two separate payments with each receiving 50% 
of the total amount due. 
Cheques do require in most cases to be presented to a branch to be paid in, and I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Ks comments that needing to do this isnt as easy  as receiving a 
payment direct to their account.  But cheques allow payment to be made  to individuals  when 
no account details  are known and this allowed TMB to issue the payment when the 
remediation exercise  was carried out. And it has said this is only option  for this payment to 
be made due to the automation of this process.
It appears Mrs Ks cheque was not received and not credited to her account. TMB has 
agreed to resend this to her correspondence address which feels like a fair way to resolve  
this and I dont  think it needs to do anything  else with this outstanding  payment. Mr Ks 
cheque was received and cashed, so while this may have involved some  inconvenience, he 
has been able to pay this into his account.
The requirements to change address
Ive seen the requirements that TMB puts in place for all customers  when a change of 
address is requested for correspondence. This is the same process that Mr and Mrs K were 
directed to follow  they needed to visit a local branch with relevant ID for this to be 
changed. Obviously  different  businesses will have different processes for this but all share 
the same  objective  of making sure the change has been requested  by the right person. And 
its fair for a business to have a process  in place to help it ensure this is done.  But I do think 
TMB could have done more on this case.
TMB knew  Mr and Mrs K no longer lived at their old address and had attempted  to trace  a 
new address for each  when the cheques  were sent out as part of the automated  process. 
When Mr and Mrs K complained that Mrs Ks wasnt received, TMB  was aware  of a 
correspondence address for them. And that proof of address for Mr and Mrs K was difficult  to 
produce based on their current situation and lack of many of the relevant documents  it would 
normally seek to rely on for confirmation.  So I think considering other options might  have  
been sensible and offered  a pragmatic solution.
TMB was able to change  the address without a visit to branch and demonstrated it had the 
ability to be pragmatic when situations  warranted  this. And has said that it agrees the 
address could have  been  changed sooner, acknowledging that in not doing so, it has added  
to the distress and inconvenience of this matter.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel very strongly  about  this and have questioned why TMB is 
able to now change  the address and set aside its normal process.  There will be times when 
pragmatically a process cant  be followed and exceptional circumstances require a change 
to this  and it would be fair to expect this. TMB have now changed the address and offered 
to pay £150 for not doing so sooner  and taking account of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances.
Ref: DRN73813884I think this represents  a fair level of compensation for the distress  and inconvenience of this. 
I have to recognise that directing Mr and Mrs K to visit a branch in the first instance  was 
correct and there might be some  inconvenience  in doing this, but this wasnt unreasonable.  
When it was apparent this couldnt be done and these requirements wouldnt have been able 
to be met, I think TMB should have looked at other  options sooner and confirmed this with 
Mr and Mrs K and for this delay, I feel I the £150.00  offered is fair.
Paying the £75.00 direct to Mr Ks account
Mr and Mrs K have  said they dont think its fair the £75.00  offered by TMB for its failure to 
respond to their earlier correspondence was paid without consent. As our investigator said, it 
isnt unusual for a business to make a payment when  it is offered. This doesnt prejudice the 
complainants position  or ability to bring  the complaint to this service  if they remain unhappy.
While accept Mr and Mrs K are unhappy  this was paid and that TMB was able to send this 
as a direct  transfer  and not a cheque  payment,  I dont think  TMB  has done anything  wrong  in 
making this payment. The issue complained  about happened in August 2018 and by 
November 2018  TMB had provided its response  and it has explained why the payment for 
the mortgage can only be made  as a cheque payment.  And I believe £75.00 compensation 
for recognising any distress and inconvenience for the previous correspondence on this 
complaint not being received and responded to is fair. 
Mr and Mrs K have  said that overall, they feel this complaint warrants  a compensation 
payment of £1000.00 for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced. I appreciate  
they feel this way but Im afraid I dont agree. As Ive acknowledged there has been  many 
complaints raised  about what has happened  with their old mortgage and it is very clear Mr 
and Mrs K have been very upset as a result of all of this. But I do feel the payment  of £75.00 
for the delay  in responding on this complaint with the additional £150.00 for the failure  to 
change their address  sooner is fair.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7381388