K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC) - previously Standard Life 
Wealth - wrongly advised him to take money  from his Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP) 
instead of his ISA and this has caused  him a loss. He also complains that when he changed 
his ISA portfolio  he was charged a fee of £1,000 which he shouldnt have been  charged.
background
Mr D had a SIPP portfolio which had performed very well and an ISA portfolio which was 
invested differently  and hadnt performed as well. His IFA asked for a meeting with the 
portfolio manager  which  Mr D attended  in July 2017  to discuss the performance of his ISA.
At some point after the meeting he withdrew £15,000 from his SIPP which  he had to pay tax 
on. Mr D says he withdrew the money  from his SIPP rather than his ISA based  on advice 
from his portfolio manager.  
ASC didnt uphold  his complaint. It said the portfolio manager didnt give advice and there 
was a file note that showed this. It also said that Mr D hadnt been charged £1,000 to move  
his ISA portfolio  into the Bridge fund.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt uphold  it. He said the file note 
was the only evidence of what was discussed  at the time and based on this he couldnt  say 
advice had been given. He also said he had seen  no evidence  the fee Mr D was charged 
wasnt a management  fee as ASC had said it was rather  than a fee for transferring his ISA to 
a different portfolio. 
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said the adjudicator was relying just on a file note 
written after the meeting  and by the person  he is complaining about and there is nothing to 
support what she has said. He said the file note was likely  completed with hindsight  when  
the portfolio manager realised the mistake she had made and that his recollection of the 
advice she gave at the meeting is very clear.
Mr D pointed out that all his previous withdrawals had been through  his ISA and said it was 
the advice he received  that changed that practice and that we should get a report from his 
IFA.
As Mr D didnt  agree with the adjudicator the matter has been referred to me for review.
Ref: DRN76606902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that we make our findings and decisions,  based on the 
evidence we have  been given by the parties,  on a balance of probabilities  what is more 
likely than not to have happened. So I am not saying what  definitely  did, or didnt, happen.
I make  this clear because what happened relates to what was said in one meeting between 
Mr D and his portfolio manager in July 2017  and there is a conflict of evidence  about  this. He 
has said very clearly that he was given advice by his portfolio manager to take money from 
his SIPP  rather than his ISA. But the file note ASC has provided  of the meeting that took 
place doesnt  support  this.
The file note states the following:
(the portfolio manager) pointed out that whilst ISAs have their tax advantages  he can take 
money from his SIPP. He has crystallised it and yes the income will be taxed but that he 
should speak  to his adviser  about doing this and perhaps he can keep within  the basic rate 
tax band and only pay as little as possible. (The portfolio  manager) was quite clear that she 
does not have oversight of all his assets and that I was not giving advice in any way but 
these were avenues  he should investigate with his adviser.
The reference to speaking to his adviser about  doing  this could be seen as a little 
ambiguous. And this may explain why Mr D believes he was advised to take money from his 
SIPP. But I think the note read as a whole indicates that advice  wasnt given and what  the 
portfolio manager  was doing was explaining  it was possible  to take money  from the SIPP - 
not that he should necessarily do this. Im also mindful that Mr D did have an IFA he could 
discuss this with - as the note suggests  he was told to do - before deciding  what  he wanted 
to do.
I note Mr Ds suggestion that the portfolio  manager concocted the note when she realised 
she shouldnt have  given  him advice. This is a possibility but I cant say that it is more likely 
than not this is what happened. 
Mr D is right that his portfolio manager  wasnt authorised to give advice. I think  this makes it 
less likely she will have  done so. Again I want to make clear that I am not saying  it isnt 
possible the portfolio  manager breached her regulatory obligations but I dont think  it is likely 
she wouldve done so when there  was no benefit to her in doing so. In saying this I note 
what Mr D has said about the portfolio manager  wanting to help the ISA fund manager. But 
even if this was the case  I think it very unlikely she will have been willing  to do something  
she knew she didnt have  authority to do - especially when she was aware Mr D had his own 
IFA who could be expected to question what she had done.
Mr D has suggested that we get a report from his IFA but it is for the parties  to provide the 
evidence they rely upon not for me to obtain  this. If I think I need further information I will ask 
a party  to provide this. But Im not satisfied  that Mr Ds IFA can provide any evidence  that will 
help me decide  this complaint given  that whether Mr D was or wasnt given advice comes 
down to what happened at the meeting  in July 2017,  which the IFA didnt attend.
Ref: DRN76606903Mr D has also complained  he was charged  £1,000 for moving his ISA portfolio into the same 
fund as his SIPP. But ASC provided  him with a transaction  history to show  the credits and 
debits on his ISA account. It confirmed he wasnt charged for changing  his ISA and that the 
only fees he paid were the quarterly fees he had agreed to. In the circumstances Im not 
persuaded ASC has charged him for changing his ISA. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7660690