K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about a service she paid for using credit provided by Barclays Bank  UK PLC 
(trading as Barclaycard). She wants Barclaycard to provide a refund under Section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
 
background
Ms S paid a third party  over £1,500 with her Barclaycard to help her move  house. She was 
unhappy with the service  provided and complained to the removal company but it failed to 
investigate her concerns.  She says there has been  a breach of contract and Barclaycard 
should provide  a full refund. 
Barclaycard says theres not enough  evidence to show theres been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation. And, even if it were to accept the service wasnt what it should have 
been, it would only offer to refund the difference between the service Ms S paid for and the 
one she received. It offered to pay Ms S £300  as a goodwill  gesture  - and suggested she 
could claim for any damaged goods  under insurance  in place at the time. 
Ms S doesnt think Barclaycard has done  enough  to help. Shes  unhappy with the level of 
service it provided in this matter and generally. She wants someone senior at Barclays  to 
look into this and she asked our service to investigate her original complaint in full. She 
would like a refund of at least  £900. 
Our investigator explained there  are limits as to what  we can look at in this situation. She 
thinks Ms S probably didnt get the full service she paid for - so there  probably  was a breach 
of contract. But, shes satisfied most  of Ms Ss belongings were packed, wrapped,  loaded 
from her old address and moved to and unloaded at her new one. She considered  the cost 
of a moving only service  and the price Ms S paid which included packing. Given the 
difference in price - and the service Ms S received - shes satisfied Barclaycards offer 
seems fair overall.    
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter. She says (in 
summary) our investigator accepted theres been a breach of contract so Barclaycard should 
have to provide  a full (or much bigger) refund. She paid using her credit  card and doesnt 
think it is fair she should have to take court action to get a refund. And the removal  company 
wont respond to correspondence  meaning  she cant claim on insurance.  
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on the 19 December  2018. Ive summarised what  I said in that 
below. 
Ms S brings this complaint against  Barclaycard under section  75 because she paid for the 
removal service  using  her credit card. Section 75 says a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by a supplier may - subject to certain conditions - 
bring that claim against the lender. Its not up to me to apply section  75  only a court can do 
that. My role is to decide if Barclaycard has provided  a fair and reasonable response to Ms 
Ss complaint, in all of the circumstances.
I understand Ms S has strong feelings  about  what happened.  She feels  the service she got 
was not the one she was promised and it fell far below a reasonable standard. But, for me to 
Ref: DRN72601492uphold this complaint,  on fair and reasonable grounds, I must be satisfied  theres enough 
evidence to show that the removal  company breached the terms of the contract  it had with 
Ms S - or made misrepresentations  that she reasonably relied  on.  
Ms S says (in summary) 
she was promised 3 large vans and 8 men but the removers  only sent 2 small vans 
and 5 men;
she paid for a full packing service which including unpacking; 
packing should have taken all day but the removers were only there  for two hours;
things werent packed in the way that she wanted or expected - for example paper 
not bubblewrap was used to pack the goods;
too many  things were  loaded in the same  boxes and items were stacked and 
jammed into vans; 
the removal men were unprofessional and didnt carry out the work  in the way she 
wanted; and 
the move  took too long because not enough  men and vans were provided.
I accept the removal  company  was obliged (under legislation) to provide removal  services 
with reasonable  skill and care. But, I cant be certain what was discussed exactly between 
Ms S and the removal  company.  I think it is reasonable  to look at the paperwork prepared at 
the time - as thats  likely to provide the best evidence of what was agreed. Having reviewed 
the quote and the removal  companys standard terms and conditions, amongst other things, 
Im not persuaded that Ms S was guaranteed a set number  of removal  men - or vans - on the 
day of the removal.  The figure in the quotation  the removers supplied  clearly says its an 
estimate. And the removers standard terms (which seem  to have been incorporated)  say its 
up to the removers logistics team as to how many  men and vans  are actually used  on 
removal day. 
I accept the documents say Ms S paid for a packing service. But theres  no reference to 
unpacking and I am not persuaded that was included. I cant see any reference to an 
agreement that the removers would take a full day to pack and I think the time that would 
take would  depend on how many packers  were used. The price  breakdown  says Ms S paid 
£425 for 4 men to do this. I think that sounds more  like the cost of a two hour service  - as Id 
expect four men packing for a full day to cost more. On balance, I am not persuaded I can 
fairly find Ms S didnt receive  the packing  service  she paid for. 
I appreciate Ms S may not have agreed  with the removers packing and removal  methods. I 
understand she would have preferred it if her things had been  packed using different 
materials and loaded  less tightly  in more vans. But, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
removal agreement specified how Ms Ss things would  be pack  or loaded exactly. I dont 
think its unusual for removers to use paper and blankets to pack  goods  - and I would expect 
there to be signs of damage  if the goods  werent  packed appropriately.  I note Ms S says she 
thinks one piece of furniture was damaged but I havent  seen  any evidence of that damage  - 
or anything  to indicate this was due to the removers poor handling. 
I understand some of Ms Ss things had to be left behind on the day of the removal.  The 
removers standard  terms say it was the sole responsibility of Ms S to ensure nothing was 
left on the day. So, Id need some fairly compelling  evidence to show  that items  were  not 
taken as the result of a fault on the part of the removers. Ms S says there wasnt  enough  
room for the items in question  but she hasnt supplied any evidence  to show what was left 
behind and why. And I cant fairly find theres  been  a breach of contract in this respect.  
Ref: DRN72601493I have no doubt  that Ms S didnt get the service she wanted or expected here.  But, I am 
satisfied goods  were packed and the move  was completed. For the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont have enough evidence to safely conclude that the supplier has failed to act with 
reasonable skill and care - or find theres  been  some other breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. So, I am not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to find 
Barclaycard should  provide a refund. 
I realise this probably  feels unfair to Ms S. I understand she was really disappointed with the 
removers. I can see she was upset by some of the behaviour of the removal  men - and shes 
been frustrated  by the removers response and lack of communication, amongst other 
things. But, thats  not something I can look into in this complaint against  Barclaycard. 
I invited both parties to consider what Id said and let me have any further information or 
comments by 2 January  2019. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard hasnt responded to my provisional  decision  but Ms S asked for some  more time 
to consider my provisional findings. Our investigator asked Ms S to let us have any 
comments or further information  by 17 January 2019. That date has now passed.  Ms S 
hasnt made  any further submissions. And I see no reasonable  grounds to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
I remain satisfied that Barclaycard  has investigated  Ms Ss complaint. For the reasons Ive 
explained I am not persuaded  there  are enough  grounds for me to fairly  require Barclaycard 
to do anything further. I think the offer to refund £300 seems  reasonable. And I leave it up to 
Ms S to contact Barclaycard if she would  like to accept that offer.  
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.   
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7260149