K820x#14complaint
F, a community organisation,  complains that The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc made errors in 
changing the details for its bank account  and provided poor customer service.
background
F submitted  a form in April 2018 to request a change in the signatories  to its bank account 
and wanted bank statements sent to one of those new signatories, the Chair (and 
Treasurer), in future.  The Chair represents F in this complaint  and says that RBS did not 
deal with this even after he had raised the issue again. And it wasnt until December 2018  
that the changes were  made. The statements were now being  sent to his address but were 
still not marked for the attention of the correct person.
Our investigator did not recommend that RBS do more than it had already  which  was to pay 
F £30. She said that following a complaint in June 2018 RBS had written to the Chair  and to 
the other new signatory on 7 June 2018. RBS set out that the other new signatory would 
need to visit a branch to verify his identity. At this time RBS paid F £30. It does  not seem that 
the other signatory received the letter. And the Chair  had contacted  RBS further  when the 
changes had not been made. 
RBS had phoned and then written  to the Chair saying it needed to discuss  the resolution of 
the complaint.  The Chair  had not wanted  to deal with RBS by phone and the complaint had 
been closed. He had written to a branch about this in September  2018 but had received no 
response. But it was not until he and the other signatory had gone  into a branch on 3 
December 2018  that this could be dealt with. The issue of the way the statements were  
marked was a new complaint that RBS had said it wanted the chance  to look at first.
F did not agree.  The Chair said that the complaint points had not been addressed.  It ought  to 
have been clear to RBS that the other  signatory did not receive  the letter of 7 June 2018.  
And it should have  been obvious  that another copy was required.  In August 2018 he had 
expressed dissatisfaction that RBS had not complied with the outcome of the previous  
complaint. By the time he and the other signatory attended the branch in December 2018 
RBS had destroyed the paperwork and luckily he had a copy. There  had been  no reason not 
to send statements  to him before then as this had been authorised  by signatories to the 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This ought to have  been a simple  matter. For reasons that are not clear RBS did not initially  
dealt with the mandate change forms that the Chair  says he hand delivered to a branch on 
27 April 2018. And nor he says did RBS respond to initial letters  about  this. 
The final response  letter of 7 June 2018  says that this was discussed with the Chair and the 
compensation of £30 paid to F. RBS had agreed to write to the other signatory to explain 
what he needed to do. Ive seen  a copy of that letter and so have no reason to think  it wasnt 
sent. But the Chair  had confirmed with that individual  that he did not receive a letter. And the 
Chair then wrote to the branch  and the complaints department saying that the changes  had 
not been made and adding that there  were now new complaint points.
Ref: DRN75652172The complaints team phoned the Chair on 8 August 2018 and wanted to discuss things. But 
the Chair was not happy to discuss this in a call from a withheld number. Im not entirely 
clear how he thought things were  left. But RBS has shown it wrote to him on 8 August 2018 
asking him to get in contact as it needed  to discuss the issues  hed raised.  Importantly he 
says he did not receive  that letter and having  not heard from him RBS then wrote to him to 
say the complaint was closed.
The Chair  wrote to a branch in September 2018 and RBS says that this would have been 
passed to the central team. Unfortunately no response was given. But RBS had said that 
until the signatories had been  changed  which was all part of one application from F the 
address for the statements could not be changed to a new party. As set out above the Chair 
and the other signatory visited a branch in December  2018 and the mandate  changes were  
then processed.
my assessment
As part of my assessment I want first to say that I cant find RBS at fault for dealing  with the 
changes in line with its process as part of one application as there  was one form with the 
requests. And the Chair  is likely right that by December 2018  RBS had not retained 
paperwork for this given the time that had elapsed. I also consider that by 7 June 2018  F 
was clear that the other new signatory would need  to verify his information in some  way. And 
Ive seen that RBS sent a letter to him as well about  this as requested by the Chair and the 
information it needed was not especially onerous. 
I cant hold RBS responsible for problems with the postal service  then or later it seems  in 
August 2018.  And RBS reasonably wanted  to discuss with the Chair  what had happened up 
to August  2018  to deal with all the complaint  points.  The changes could not be made until 
December 2018.  RBS has paid F compensation for not dealing with the original application. 
And Im afraid Im not persuaded  it fairly  needs to do anything more  to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc need do no more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7565217