K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way in which Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional
De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. handled  a claim made on her travel  insurance policy.
background
Mrs S had the benefit of an annual travel insurance  policy, underwritten by Mapfre. Whilst
abroad, in December 2018, Mrs S injured  her ankle. She visited  a doctor local to the hotel
where she was staying. An x-ray revealed  it was broken and she needed to go to hospital for
surgery. The nearest  hospital was around 200 km away. She contacted Mapfre  for
assistance.
Mapfre asked Mrs S to complete certain  documents, which  she returned the next day. It took
a further three days for Mrs S to be admitted to hospital, on 29 December 2018, by which
time she says her leg was badly  swollen and shed been in severe  pain for several days.
Mrs Ss operation didnt  take place until around  3 January 2019 and she was discharged on
8 January 2019. At that stage she wasnt fit to fly, and she returned  to the hotel  shed been
staying at before shed  been hospitalised.  She was re-admitted  to hospital nine days  later
with an ankle infection, where she remained for over a week.
She had further  hospital appointments in early February 2019, and was repatriated  back  to
the UK on 9 February 2019 via a business class  flight with nurse escort.
Mrs S is very unhappy with the way her claim was handled overall.  She says Mapfre:
took too long to authorise her admission  to hospital after it had been notified  of her
broken ankle;
didnt respond  to communications in a timely  manner;
didnt arrange  accommodation for when she was discharged from hospital on 
8 January 2019;
asked silly questions  and requested  she provide information shed already given;
unreasonably delayed the payment of her claim; and
unfairly declined  to pay the majority  of her mobile phone  bills and her original flight 
home.
Mapfre accepts it made  errors.  Its apologised  and offered Mrs S £400 compensation. She
doesnt think that fairly reflects  the impact Mapfres failures had on her, and that Mapfre has
unreasonably declined part of her claim.
Our investigator agreed that £400  compensation didnt fairly  reflect  the trouble and upset
Mrs S went  through as a result of what Mapfre did wrong. He recommended  Mapfre pay
£600. However, he didnt think Mapfre had unfairly declined Mrs Ss claim for the cost of
mobile phone bills or the original flight home.
Mrs S didnt agree. So, her complaint was passed  to me to look at everything afresh and 
decide. I issued  a provisional decision, also partially  upholding Mrs Ss complaint, and 
explaining why I felt Mapfre should  pay Mrs S £1,000 compensation for trouble and upset.
Mrs S replied saying she agreed  with my provisional  decision. Mapfre acknowledged receipt 
and didnt provide any further comments. 
Ref: DRN73772562my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given the parties 
havent provided any comments in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart  from it. So I partially  uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and direct  Mapfre  to pay her £1,000  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused her. Ill explain why. 
Mapfre had an obligation to handle Mrs Ss claim promptly and fairly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline her claim.
customer service  issues:
Mapfre accepts that there was an inexcusable  delay of three  days at the start of her claim.
Im satisfied that delay  had a substantial impact on Mrs S.
She was almost 80 years old at time,  and she describes herself  being  in a traumatic  
situation  which I accept. Shed been  left alone at a hotel as the tour group shed spent part 
of her trip travelling with, had to continue with their itinerary. Mapfre, of course, isnt 
responsible for that.
However, once Mrs S contacted it and Mapfre had been made  aware of her plight, Im
satisfied it shouldve more  proactively  progressed  her claim. I think its fair to presume that
unnecessarily delaying her admission  to hospital meant that she was left in significant pain
for a lot longer than she needed to be. Theres an email from Mrs S to Mapfre chasing  for an
update before she was taken to hospital and she describes being unable to stand and
having to crawl around her hotel room. I have no reason to doubt what  she says about that,
given that shed broken her ankle.
Not knowing when she was going  to be taken  to hospital, particularly in such  circumstances,
is likely  to have caused her a significant  distress, and wouldve exacerbated an already
upsetting situation for her. I also think she wouldve been frustrated by not receiving much
information from Mapfre during this time and having  to chase it for updates.
Mapfre also accepts it didnt reply  to several of Mrs Ss communications whilst in hospital
and it couldve done more to manage Mrs Ss expectations about her treatment and future
travel plans, removing  some of her anxieties.  Because of this, Im satisfied she experienced
further unnecessary  distress and frustration. She was asking important questions  about her
likely repatriation and plans for after shed been discharged from hospital, including  where
she would  be staying.  And she was put to the trouble of having to chase responses to those
emails.
I can see that Mrs S was keen to return to the hotel  she was staying  at before breaking her
ankle and, although it was 200 km away, given the reasons she provided  Mapfre at time,  I 
can understand why. She asked many times for confirmation that it would authorise her stay
there and I cant see that she received a clear  reply, so it looks like she was put to the
trouble of having to make  arrangements herself.
On several occasions  Mapfre also accepts that it unnecessarily asked  Mrs S to provide
information which it already had on file from her  including details about her flights and
medication. Reading  the exchanges between Mapfres representatives and Mrs S from the
time, I can see that she, understandably, was very frustrated  about providing information
again, especially  at a time when she was meant to be recovering from surgery. I think  this
Ref: DRN73772563caused further frustration and put her to unnecessary trouble.
Im also satisfied that she was asked  questions by Mapfres representatives which  wouldve
irked Mrs S further.  For example, enquiring whether she was still in the country  or now back
in the UK, when  it ought to have  reasonably  known  she was abroad,  having only recently
been discharged from hospital and not fit to fly. I can see from Mrs Ss reply that she was
upset by this.
Mrs S is unhappy with the transport from the UK airport she arrived  at after she was
repatriated. She says she told Mapfre about  the service  the airline provides its business
class passengers; arranging for them to be collected  by car from the airport  and driven
home, at no extra cost. However, rather than take advantage  of that service, she says she
was met by a car at the airport that Mapfre had arranged  which  was inferior  to the one the
airline wouldve  provided and not as comfortable  given her ankle. However, I dont think
Mapfre acted unreasonably  by not taking advantage of the airlines car service; particularly
as it did arrange  transportation for her, and Ive seen nothing to say that car was unsuitable
for her medical needs.
However, Mapfre does agree it unnecessarily  delayed paying the majority of her claim and
asked her to provide information which wasnt necessary. This led to Mrs S having to chase
for payment, which put her to additional inconvenience, and wouldve increased her level of
frustration, given the previous, similar, issues shed encountered with Mapfre,  whilst  abroad.
Looking at the considerable distress and inconvenience Mapfre  caused Mrs S, I dont  think
 £400 fairly reflects the substantial impact its wrongdoings,  taken together,  had on her.
When making this finding, Ive considered  that Mrs S says the initial delay getting her to the
hospital meant that her surgery couldnt take place for a number of days  because her ankle
was so swollen  and blistered by that stage. She also says it impeded her recovery  and that
her ankle may never  fully recover. Im very sorry to hear that Mrs S is still suffering with the
consequences of her broken ankle but I havent seen enough medical  evidence  to lead me
to conclude, on a balance of probabilities, that if shed been taken to hospital sooner,  her
recovery wouldve been more successful.
mobile phone bills and original flights home:
The policy excludes:
the cost of any phone calls, other  than the first call to us to tell us about the medical
problem.
I dont think Mapfre has unfairly relied on this term to only pay Mrs S £10 of the £90 shes
claimed. Although  she topped up her phone with credit after she broke her ankle, I havent
seen evidence of how that credit  was utilised or the calls made  by Mrs S, and to whom.
Further, although Mrs S did call Mapfre on occasions, most of the communications were 
done by email. So, I think Mapfres decision to reimburse £10 to cover Mrs Ss initial call is
reasonable.
I also think its decision not to cover the cost of Mrs Ss original flight  home is reasonable.
Mrs S was unable to use that flight but Mapfre covered the cost of an alternative business
class flight home, approximately a week after the date of her original flight,  once she was fit
to fly and had attended the necessary hospital appointments. Thats in line with what  I would
generally expect  in those circumstances. If Mrs S was reimbursed the cost of her original
Ref: DRN73772564flight home, she would, in effect,  be in a better position financially than if she hadnt  had to
make a claim on her policy and I dont think thats fair or reasonable.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and direct  Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. to put things  right by paying Mrs S £1,000 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. can deduct the
£400 previously  offered  to Mrs S, if its paid this already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7377256