K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Specialist Motor  Finance  Limited  (SMF)  are unfairly holding him liable 
for about £14,888  relating  to a hire purchase  agreement for a car.
background
In November 2018, I wrote a provisional  decision (PD) in which I agreed with Mr H that 
SMF had treated  him unfairly.  I concluded  that Mr H should not be held liable for about  
£14,888. Instead, I thought that a fair and reasonable outcome would be to reduce that 
liability to £4,345.
My PD is set out in full at the end of this, my final decision. It sets out the background to this 
complaint and my reasoning; I refer the reader to it.
In the PD, I asked  for any submissions either  party wished to make  having read it. Both 
parties responded disagreeing  with my outcome and asked for a further review.
Mr H disagreed because  he thought  the whole debt should be written-off and his credit file 
cleared. He believes this would  be fair and reasonable;  to precis, because of SMFs lack of 
organisation, empathy and evidence. In addition, the length of time it has taken to resolve 
warrants a total waiver of any liability.
SMF, on the other hand, think that effectively they are being penalised. They think  that the 
effect of my PD is that I have awarded an interest free loan in circumstances where the legal 
effect of the lending was clear. They also think that the examples I gave of the options they 
could have suggested to Mr H, when he was in financial  hardship, were unrealistic.
 
In light of these  submissions, Ive considered the case  again.  I note that neither party 
submitted any further documentary evidence for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and notwithstanding  what each party has since said to me, I still think the 
fair and reasonable outcome is that as set out in my PD, essentially for the reasons I gave.
Ive already acknowledged that SMF could  and should have treated Mr H more fairly.  Its 
disappointing that they did not retain  the call recordings, and Ive already drawn a conclusion  
in favour  of Mr H about that. But, equally, the most  relevant call alone does not determine 
the outcome because  other information was provided to Mr H and what  was said in that call 
was, therefore, contextual.
I appreciate that time has passed;  that certainly  adds  to the frustration felt. But Im afraid I 
dont agree that this means the liability should  be waived. The fact is, unfortunately, Mr H 
was in financial difficulty; with that in mind, Ive reached an outcome,  which  more fairly  
reflects what  should have  been the picture at the start. That does mean  some  information 
could have been fairly reported to the credit reference agencies.
Ref: DRN74462212SMF dont agree that the examples I suggested in my PD were  realistic. I dont agree. In any 
event, the list I gave was non-exhaustive. The essence of the suggestions was to 
demonstrate, by example, the responsibility SMF had to treat Mr H with forbearance  and 
what that might look like. SMF didnt  provide  any alternatives to Mr H let alone  any of those I 
suggested.
Im sorry  that SMF feel they are being penalised. That is neither my intention  nor my role. 
Ive already explained in my PD how Ive reached  the final figure. I maintain that is the figure 
I think is fair and reasonable. Should SMF  want to characterise the figure as the equivalent 
to an interest free loan that is a matter for them. I maintain that for SMF to recover over 
£10,000 in interest  payments alone, in the circumstances  of this case, would be entirely 
disproportionate.
As a result, Ive reached the same conclusion  as set out in my PD.
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint,  I require  Specialist  Motor  Finance Limited  to:
1)  adjust  the total amount payable to them by Mr H to £4,345;
2)  offer Mr H a new arrangement to pay;
3)  amend the information held by the credit  reference agencies to which  they have reported 
to reflect  Mr H had two missed payments - one in February 2017 and one in March  2017 - 
and thereafter  that he had a new arrangement  to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74462213__________________________________________
Provisional Decision of 8 November 2018
__________________________________________
complaint
Mr H complains that Specialist Motor  Finance  Limited  (SMF)  are unfairly holding him liable 
for about £14,888  relating  to a hire purchase  agreement.
background
In October  2016, Mr H applied for finance to purchase a car. By the end of October, SMF 
approved the finance and Mr H became the registered keeper of the car.
Under the terms of the agreement, Mr H would  owe SMF the following:
Item £
Cost of car 10,980
Interest 10,428
Admin Fee 250
Option 195
Total 21,853
The total was to be paid over 61 months, after which he would  become  the owner of the car.
Mr H paid the Admin Fee due in December 2016, as expected, and he made one payment of 
£356.81 in January 2017.
Mr H didnt think he could pay anymore because in December  2016 Mr H lost his job. In 
January 2017  the company he was working for went into liquidation, so there was no 
prospect of him getting  his job back.
On 30 January 2017, Mr H called  SMF to explain the situation. He advised  SMF  that he 
would potentially pay Februarys instalment late and may not be able to pay at all. He would 
keep SMF updated.
SMF said they would put the account  on hold.
In February 2017,  Mr H told SMF he thought he would be getting  a new job. He thought that 
would happen  in March 2017.  But, come March, the situation was no better and Mr H let 
SMF know  the company  should have the car back.
SMF sent an agent to collect the car, which was sold at auction in April 2017.  After which 
SMF calculated that Mr H owed the following:
Item £ credit £ owed
Previous balance  21,246
Collection fees x3 at £10 30
Repossession fee x2 at £200 400
Ref: DRN74462214Other 42
Total 21,718
Auction sale proceeds 6,635
Option fee written off 195
Total 14,888
SMF defaulted Mr H - informing the credit reference agencies  (CRAs),  which I understand 
marked his credit file with missed payments and the revised total balance  outstanding in 
default of the agreement.
Mr H complained to SMF.  The thrust of his complaint was that he couldnt owe that much; he 
had kept them informed of the situation  and had voluntarily given the car back. He had relied 
on the representation of an SMF  staff member during a phone  call that he wouldnt be held 
liable for the rest of the payments. 
SMF rejected that. They  said that wasnt what their agent had said  having listened to the 
call. They  made  it clear they considered  they had repossessed the vehicle, which meant  that 
Mr H was liable for any costs associated with that. And he would be liable for the full 
outstanding balance with any associated fees in accordance with the loan agreement.
Mr H brought his complaint to this Service.
The adjudicator looking into the complaint thought overall SMF had treated Mr H fairly. In 
particular, he considered the difference  between what may be considered  a voluntary 
surrender of the car (what Mr H thought hed done) and repossession  (what  SMF  said theyd 
done). In the end, he concluded  that which ever had taken place it made  no material  
difference: Mr H would still be liable for the full remaining balance.
Mr H didnt agree. Because of that, this complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator. Ill explain why.
I say now that Im aware that Ive summarised the events  of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature  of our service. Ive concentrated on 
what I think are the key issues. 
I can assure Mr H and SMF that Ive read everything  thats  been  sent.  If I dont mention 
something its not because I havent  considered it. Its just that I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
I acknowledge that a fundamental premise of a contract is certainty: that is each party should 
know what is expected  of them and the other  party. Terms and conditions  supplement  that 
premise. Ive taken  this into account in my decision - accepting that terms and conditions do 
not address every nuanced situation.
Ref: DRN74462215In reaching my conclusions, Ive also borne  in mind the responsibilities SMF had. These  are 
set out in the applicable FCA handbook, known as CONC: in particular, Part 7, which sets 
out what firms ought  to do when responding to their customers who are in arrears  difficulties:
CONC 7.3.2
When dealing with customers  in default  or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay 
due regard to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its 
customers fairly.
In addition:
CONC 7.3.4
A firm must treat customers in default  or in arrears difficulties with forbearance  and 
due consideration.
CONC goes on to give a non-exhaustive list of examples of what  forbearance could look like; 
it will vary depending  on the circumstances of the case.
SMFs response
For me, one of the most  striking elements  of this complaint is for how little time Mr H had the 
car before he was in financial difficulty:  just over a month (mid-December). He informed SMF 
of the fact when  it was clear the situation was not going to get immediately  better (end of 
January).
So this complaint sits within this particular context.
At the time of notifying SMF, Mr H had paid the two contractual  payments  he owed up to that 
point. His call to SMF was to put them on notice of his forthcoming  difficulty in paying 
Februarys instalment   and potentially payments thereafter. 
I can see from SMFs records  they said they would  put the account on hold. But Im not 
sure what  they think they meant by that. I say that because, also according to their records,  
SMF phoned  Mr H repeatedly throughout February  2017 to find out when Mr H would pay.
I note they issued default notices almost immediately when Mr H missed  the payment  in 
February and in March  2017. In February,  they said that two payments had been missed.  
That doesnt  seem  right to me  he had paid the contractual amount owing in December and 
January. In February,  he had only missed one payment.  It was premature, therefore, for 
SMF to send the February default notice to Mr H.
As far as Im aware, no other correspondence was sent to Mr H about the situation.
Whilst SMF were  quick to issue default notices,  I see no evidence of them having provided  
clear information to Mr H - either by a useful  contemporaneous note of phone calls or by 
letter - about what  his options were.
Mr H volunteered to pay the arrears at the end of March 2017.  That was because  he thought 
he would  have had another  job by then. But there were other options available  and I see no 
evidence of SMF supporting Mr H and providing the guidance I would have expected them  to 
give. 
Ref: DRN74462216For example, they could  have:
Offered to go through income and expenditure with Mr H to see if any payments 
would be possible or whether  a break  or short-term  reduction  in payments could 
assist;
Checked to see if any other sensible/sustainable sources of borrowing were  
available;
Set out what the options in relation  to terminating the agreement would mean and 
which may be better for Mr H;
Offered to go back to the garage  from which Mr H had bought  the car to see if they 
would be willing to buy it back given  it was purchased so recently;
Checked whether  Mr H had a private buyer who may be willing  to purchase the car 
for a price closer  to the original purchase  price.
the phone  call
Mr H has said that he relied  on what an SMF staff member had said on the phone. Im aware  
that the particular call recording he has in mind is no longer available. In fact, none of the call 
recordings between Mr H and SMF are now available. This is a source  of some upset to Mr 
H because he had repeatedly asked for the calls to help illustrate  what  was said.
SMF also place reliance on the same  phone call. SMF say they listened  to that call and it 
was made  clear to Mr H that by giving up the car, it would be considered a VS with liability. 
That meant a voluntary  surrender of the car with liability to pay the full contract price. They 
dont say what else was said in that call and there dont appear to be contemporaneous 
notes of it either.
Mr H said that the staff member he spoke  with had expressed surprise at Mr H letting them  
know what was happening  and that it was unusual that a customer  would request to give the 
car back.  I can imagine, therefore, it following  that the staff member would have said Mr H 
would not be pursued for all the interest payments on the basis that unusual circumstances 
warrant unusual responses.
Ive noted, though, that however prematurely told, Mr H was informed about potential 
repossession and I note that Mr H did tell SMF that he would have  expected to pay any 
difference in the cost of the car and what it would be sold for.
So although  Mr H now says that when he gave the car back  he wouldnt have to pay 
anything else at all. I think it more likely than not that he thought  he may have to pay 
something. But that something would relate to any capital sum owed.
That does sound  right to me and I think that would be a fair outcome. SMF did outlay the 
capital sum to the garage in order to buy the car in the first place. So I dont think  it would be 
fair that they have to lose out on that.
full or partial contract price
But what  about the rest of the contract price  that is the total amount payable, plus 
additional costs  associated with repossession of the car?
Ref: DRN74462217Its clear to me that the amount of communication  and the intent Mr H showed,  meant  he 
was trying to do the right thing and was relying  on being guided  by SMF. He has been told 
that he was voluntarily surrendering the car  so that is the terminology he has been  using.
I accept that an agent of SMF did collect the vehicle,  but I think that was a matter of practical  
logistics and dont accept  that act alone  turned this into a repossession.
Both SMF and the adjudicator have pointed out that irrespective of a voluntary surrender or 
repossession the net effect is the same; that is the customer is liable for the full contract 
price. I understand that as a principle.
But Im afraid I also think that takes  a very blunt view of what  was happening  here.  Mr H 
appealed to SMF because he realised he had a problem. Ultimately, Mr H gave the car up  
because that was what he thought he had to do in the context  of there  being  no other option 
available to him. Except, that is, SMF repossessing the car.
SMF were  well positioned to be able to assist Mr H but they chose to take a narrow 
approach to solve the problem. They also chose to interpret the contractual  terms and 
conditions to suit them, but not on the terms and conditions which  would support Mr H.
They didnt point  out, for example, the term relating to voluntary  termination, which  would 
have meant  Mr H would  only have been liable  for half of the total amount payable.
So SMFs approach meant that Mr H found  himself  in a worse  position having declared he 
was in financial difficulties  than if he had said nothing and simply handed the car back  and 
terminated the agreement. I dont accept that is fair or reasonable.
Further, this issue arose so close to the start of the agreement, the interest  SMF are holding 
Mr H liable for has not been shown to me to be a fair reflection of the actual cost of the 
capital outlay. The total amount SMF wants appears  to me to be disproportionate to both 
SMFs loss and to the benefit Mr H had from the car.
outcome
Taking these things together, therefore, I dont think that SMF have treated Mr H fairly and I 
require them to put things right.
As Ive said,  I acknowledge that SMF had to make  the capital outlay of £10,980 which  was 
the cost of the car.
The sale proceeds  of the car at auction was £6,635. This leaves a balance of £4,345.
Ive considered that balance and the other  costs outlined in the table above to decide for 
what I think Mr H should now be held liable.
I accept that sale at auction  is a quick and usual option but I also consider that SMF applied 
no thought to mitigating any loss on the capital sum.  And Mr H paid two instalments. I weigh 
against this that I dont  think its fair and reasonable for Mr H to pay the outstanding interest 
payments and, because  I dont find this was a repossession, I dont think  it would be fair for 
Mr H to pay the associated fees.
So I think overall it would be fair and reasonable for Mr H to pay the balance of £4,345.
Ref: DRN74462218In relation to information held by the CRAs,  Ive borne in mind the guidance provided by the 
ICO (the Information Commissioners  Office), which requires accurate and fair reporting.
I accept that Mr H could not pay the February and March instalments. So I do think  its 
accurate and fair to say that those payments were missed.
But, given my findings above, its not clear to me what would have happened  that is, 
whether Mr H would  truly have been in default  or whether he would have paid under a new 
arrangement.
Ive found its fair and reasonable  for SMF  to recover some money. Had that been 
appreciated in 2017, then the reporting  to the CRAs, would have meant  SMF telling them 
that payments  had been missed and a new arrangement to pay had been  set up.
I think, therefore, it would  be fair and reasonable for SMF to amend information held by the 
CRAs to reflect that.
my provisional decision
Unless I hear additional information  to change my mind, to resolve  this complaint I will 
require Specialist Motor  Finance Limited to:
1)adjust the total amount payable to £4,345;
2)offer Mr H a new arrangement to pay;
3)amend the information held by the credit reference agencies to which they have 
reported to reflect  Mr H had two missed payments - one in February  2017  and one in 
March 2017 - and thereafter that he had a new arrangement to pay.
As Ive said this is my provisional decision. Ill consider any other information either party 
wishes to give to me  if either party want me to do that I ask for the information to be 
provided by 8 December 2018.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7446221