K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about how Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (Shop  Direct) reported 
his debts to the credit  reference agencies (CRAs).
background
Mr S opened  four accounts with Shop Direct in 2011. He fell into financial difficulty and on 
14 November 2013, he entered  into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS)  a statutory debt 
management plan.  The four accounts in question were all managed under the DAS.
Mr S made all his payments on time and in accordance with the DAS requirements. As a 
result, the four Shop  Direct accounts  were  marked as satisfied  in 2018 at the end of the 
scheme.
Mr S reviewed his credit  file and was unhappy with how Shop Direct reported his debts  to 
the CRAs.  He thought it would be fair for the four accounts to be marked as defaulted from 
the date he entered into the DAS,  or at least when the first payment was made to the 
DAS  meaning they would disappear from his credit file in 2019.
Our investigator reviewed  things and agreed  this would  be a fair outcome. She explained 
that the DAS ran for several years until the balances on the account  were written off. She felt 
this wasnt a short-term  arrangement and also indicated a breakdown in relationship 
between the two parties. So the accounts shouldve  been defaulted from the start date of the 
DAS.
Shop Direct disagreed.  In summary, it said:
it had an obligation  to record accurate information with the CRAs;
the relationship  between  the two parties  didnt break down  Shop  Direct relaxed the 
terms of the agreement to support a plan suitable  for both parties,  and Mr S made 
repayments in line with the arrangements;
lenders wouldve seen that arrangements were  in place, which  wouldve  reflected 
more favourably than defaults;
once the accounts had been settled, Mr S had the option  to use the accounts again.
As Shop Direct disagreed with our investigator,  the case  has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive upheld Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered the industry rules, regulations and best practice  that 
were applicable at the time of the event. Accordingly, Ive considered the Information  
Commissioners Office  (ICO) guidelines relevant to 2013, when Mr S entered  his DAS. 
Its important to explain that these guidelines  were created to ensure  consistency amongst 
creditors when filing default information . Ive considered  that Mr S has specifically requested 
that Shop Direct mark the four accounts  as defaulted from the date he entered into the DAS,  
or from at least when the first payment was made to the DAS. Hes asked for this so all the 
Ref: DRN71963492information on his credit file relating to the DAS is recorded in the same way, and is in line 
with what other creditors have recorded.  So, Ive thought carefully about whether I think  
Mr Ss request here is reasonable, bearing in mind the aim of the ICO guidelines.
I understand that Shop Direct has an obligation to present accurate information  to the CRAs. 
And accordingly, it has recorded  the four accounts  as having entered  into payment 
arrangements. With this in mind,  Im not suggesting that Shop Direct has done  anything 
wrong in how it has reported  Mr Ss accounts  to the CRAs. However,  having  considered  the 
circumstances in this case, I dont think  registering defaults on the four accounts would be 
inaccurate either. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Shop  Direct has said Mr S was still making payments towards  his debts 
through the DAS. But Shop Direct  has already identified that these payments were lower  
than what would have  been requested on the statements.  Therefore, Mr S was arguably no 
longer making  contractual repayments  to any of the four accounts in question,  from the point 
that he entered into the arrangement  on 14 November 2013. 
Therefore, considering that Mr S was no longer meeting his contractual obligations under the 
account terms, Shop Direct wouldnt be reporting  inaccurate information if it reported the 
accounts as having defaulted  to the CRAs. Given that this is what Mr S has specifically 
asked for to be in line with what other  creditors have reported, I dont think this is an 
unreasonable request.
In summary,  I dont think Shop Direct has done anything wrong in how it has reported  
information about the four accounts to the CRAs.  But Ive thought carefully about whats fair 
and reasonable in Mr Ss circumstances. Having considered  that what  Mr S has requested 
wouldnt be factually inaccurate, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Shop Direct to 
honour this and report the four accounts  as defaulted. And, the dates of the defaults should  
be recorded as the date the DAS took effect   14 November 2013. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint, and require Shop Direct Finance  
Company Limited  to update Mr Ss credit file, to reflect the four accounts  involved in the DAS 
as defaulting on 14 November 2013.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Hana Yousef
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7196349