K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs Y payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  covered a mortgage. Both 
started at the same time in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs Y disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ys comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold their 
complaint. I will explain  why. 
This happened about 23 years ago and I wouldnt expect someone  to recall in detail  
everything that happened so long ago. Mr and Mrs Y have said the PPI was added without 
their knowledge.  However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there 
was reasonable  supporting evidence. Where  someone has said another  person or 
organisation has done something wrong,  fairness  requires that they present evidence that 
this probably did happen.  It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. I know  this must  be frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs Y, as they clearly genuinely  are convinced they never agreed to PPI. But I dont 
think there is enough evidence for me to say its more likely than not Bank  of Scotland added  
the PPI without consent. 
Mr and Mrs Y have  pointed to a mortgage  offer dated 24 April 1996 and said that, on this 
document, it says Special note. The society strongly advises all borrowers to consider  
[PPI]. Mr and Mrs Y say this shows they didnt agree to PPI, as the bank was still advising 
them to consider taking it at that point. However  I can see, from a screenshot of the banks 
records, that the mortgage started on 23 May 1996.  So there was still a month in which 
Mr and Mrs Y could  have agreed  to PPI  so I dont  think the special note  by itself shows 
that they never agreed to PPI.
Mr and Mrs Y have  said that Mr Y (the person covered) had very good employee benefits  
and they had access to other means to pay the mortgage  and so they wouldnt have 
agreed to the PPI. However this isnt to my mind  proof that they didnt agree to the PPI. 
There could have been reasons why they might  have thought the PPI a good idea despite 
those factors. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. 
The PPI would have  paid on top of employment  benefits and allowed them  to put off the time 
theyd need to rely on the other means,  so making  them financially secure for a longer time if 
sickness or unemployment proved to be long term. They have presented  information  to 
Ref: DRN74707452suggest they were  financially responsible and may have been financially cautious.  So it 
would be equally possible they would see PPI as a good idea.
It would be more usual  for the PPI to have  been  mentioned in documents at the time, such  
as the insurer  writing to the customer to confirm the policy, which  would normally be 
automatic once the bank notified the insurer of the policy.  And, in the absence of contrary  
evidence, I think its reasonably likely this is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as 
a choice, even  if Mr and Mrs Y dont now remember it. 
I also accept that this might not be true at all. But without stronger evidence, I cant  fairly say 
the PPI was added without  Mr and Mrs Ys consent.  
Bank of Scotland has worked  on the assumption that it recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs Y. This is because, in considering the complaint, it means it had greater  
responsibilities during  the sale  it means it had to check that the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances (rather than just giving them  the information and leaving them 
to decide themselves whether it was suitable,  without advice). But it doesnt look as if a 
recommendation would have been unsuitable, based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Its likely  Mr and Mrs Y were eligible for the policy. And, as Ive 
explained already, the benefits of the PPI could  have been useful on top of any employee  
benefits and other means Mr and Mrs Y had to pay the mortgage.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the costs would have affected 
whether Mr and Mrs Y took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs Y would  have been affected by any of these.
So, in conclusion, I dont  think  the PPI was added without consent  or otherwise mis-sold to 
Mr and Mrs Y.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7470745