K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the charges John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) has 
applied to his credit card. Mr M would like JLFS to refund the charges (with interest)  as he 
believes they are unfair.
background
In January 2019 Mr M asked JLFS to refund  all the late fees and over limit fees that had 
been charged to his account.
JLFS said no over limit fees had been  charged  to the account. It didnt agree to refund the 
late payment fees because it said they had been applied  correctly in line with its terms and 
conditions. It credited Mr Ms account with £50 for the delay in responding to his complaint.
JLFS also said it didnt  agree to us considering Mr Ms complaint about  any charges incurred 
more than six years before Mr M brought his complaint to JLFS.
When Mr M brought his complaint to our service he told us that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty. He said that hed lost his job in December 2018 and was also having to 
cover the costs of looking after his ill father.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 October  2019  where I explained why I didnt intend  to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
time limits
The rules  applying to this service say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant  look at a 
complaint made more  than six years after the event being complained  about   or (if later) 
more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought  reasonably  to have been 
aware, of cause for complaint.  This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
JLFS hasnt agreed for us to look at Mr Ms complaint about the charges applied to his credit 
card more than six years  before he brought his complaint  to it in January 2019. 
JLFS has sent us copies of the monthly  statements it was sending  to Mr M which showed 
the charges applied to Mr Ms account.  Given that Mr M is complaining that the charges 
have been applied unfairly,  Im satisfied that Mr M should reasonably have been aware of his 
cause for complaint from these statements. This means Im unable to consider Mr Ms 
complaint about  any charges occurring before January 2013, because  under the second  part 
of the rule, Mr M shouldve  complained about these older charges within  three years of them  
appearing on his statements.
charges from January  2013 
Ref: DRN74959902Mr M says that he believes the charges JLFS has applied to his account are unfair  as theyre  
not proportionate to its costs. Hes referred  to the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT)  April 2006 
statement regarding default  charges  in credit contracts.
I can see that JLFS has charged Mr M £12 for being  late with his payments on several 
occasions. Ive had a look at the terms and conditions for Mr Ms credit  card.  This sets out 
default charges  and shows that the charge  for paying late is £12. JLFS  has never charged 
him more  than £12 for paying late and it hasnt applied any other default charges to his 
account.  
In its April 2006 statement, the OFT didnt say specifically  what a fair charge might be, but it 
said it wouldnt take further action if charges were set below £12. The £12 fee doesnt need 
to reflect  the exact cost that JLFS might  have incurred because of Mr Ms late payment. It 
should be calculated  to take into account the average cost for late payments across all of its 
customers. So Im satisfied it was fair for JLFS to apply these charges to Mr Ms account.
financial difficulties
Mr M told us he lost his job in December 2018  and also had to cover  the costs  of looking 
after his father since  he became  ill in 2018.  Hes told us the charges on his credit card have 
made things  worse. 
JLFS had a duty to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically if it was aware he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
JLFS has provided us with a copy of its contact notes for Mr Ms account  and I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr M made  JLFS aware of his situation before making his complaint 
in January 2019. At this point the balance on his card was very low and had been for several 
months. 
I can see that JLFS had applied late payment fees to Mr Ms account in January, March  and 
April 2018 because hed missed payments, but this was followed by a large payment toward 
his credit card in May 2018. So I dont think Mr M missing  those  few payments wouldve 
been enough to say that JLFS should have been  aware that Mr M might have been  
experiencing financial difficulty at that time.
Overall, Mr M appears to have managed  his account  satisfactorily, so I dont  think it would 
be fair to say that JLFS should have  been aware  of Mr Ms financial  difficulties before 
January 2019.
postal issues
Mr M has mentioned that hes experienced issues with receiving post that hadnt been  
redirected from his former  address. But the information hes provided suggests that the 
redirection was requested in or before May 2018. Having reviewed the contact  notes JLFS  
has provided, I havent seen anything that shows Mr M advised JLFS  of his new address or 
requested his statements be sent to him by a different method. And I can see that Mr M was 
still using his former address when he made his complaint to JLFS  in January 2019.
So I dont  think JLFS  can be held responsible  for Mr M not receiving his post.
customer service
Ref: DRN74959903JLFS had already  offered Mr M £50 for the delay in dealing with his complaint before he 
brought his complaint to our service. I think this offer is fair, so I dont intend to tell JLFS to 
pay any additional compensation.
responses
JLFS hasnt sent us any further comments or information. Mr M said he didnt agree with my 
provisional decision and he would send further information, but he hasnt done so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7495990