K820x#14complaint
Mr O, who is represented  by a Claims Management  Company,  (CMC), complains that
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit
Act 1974 in respect of a timeshare.
 
background
In August  2011  Mr O and his wife bought a points based holiday membership from a 
company I will call C. This was funded by a fixed sum loan in Mr Os name  of £17,030.  As 
the loan was in Mr Os name alone I will refer to him as the owner  in this decision.  The CMC 
says that the product was mis-represented  and Mr and Mrs O were subjected to pressure 
selling.  The CMC says that they were told the ownership was transferrable  to their children 
but were unaware  the maintenance fees would  increase.
Clydesdale rejected the claim as it was out of time and so the matter  was brought to this 
service. It was considered  by one of our investigators who also considered the claim fell 
outside the time limits set by the Limitation Act. The CMC didnt agree and said that the 
lending had been irresponsible and Mr O and his wife had been subject to undue influence. 
It added that the high interest rate had forced Mr O to cancel  the loan and take out a 
replacement. It suggested that Clydesdale paid C commission which  had not been 
disclosed. 
It did not accept that the claim fell outside the time limits set down in law and said Mr O 
didnt know that the misrepresentations were  fraudulent until the CMC had pointed this out. It 
said that s 32 of the Limitation Act allowed the time to run from the date a plaintiff discovered 
the concealment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
{a) six years  after the event complained of: or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is Clydesdales decision to decline
the claim the CMC made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. The CMC  then
complained within the six-year time limit specified  in the rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at the complaint,  as it has been brought within  the time
Ref: DRN77386362limits set under DISP  2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  is that
Clydesdale would not look into Mr Os claim under  the Limitation Act.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Im
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mr O
has a like claim against Clydesdale  just as he would have against the supplier. So, if his
claim against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired  under the Limitation Act, then
that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. Mr O has
said the timeshare  he and his wife bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr O would  have six years from the date upon which he suffered
a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring the claim.
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  to work
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it
would start if the claim had been brought directly  against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. In this case,  given the nature of
the complaint,  I think damage occurred when Mr O suffered a financial loss as a result of
purchasing the timeshare.  Ill explain  why below.
The CMC says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation,  Mr O paid to enter an
agreement which has caused  him to suffer a loss. It says that but for the misrepresentation,
he wouldnt  have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid any
money to the supplier.
So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which
was in August  2011. Thats the moment when he accepted any potential  benefit under
the contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr O
needed to raise his claim no later than August 2017. As I understand it, the CMC raised
the claim in February  2018, which is a little under seven years  after the loss occurred.
Mr O may say that he wasnt aware  he could raise concerns  about  the misrepresentation
until much  later. But the time limits  set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to
run from the date of loss, which  may fall earlier than the date he became aware that
something might have gone  wrong.
On the matter of the Limitation Act being extended due to fraud typically s.32 applies to
fraudulent misrepresentation but it does  extend  to concealment.  in cases  where that has
been alleged,  it can extend the time the consumer has to raise a claim. However,  where a
consumer has raised a number of issues  with the product  (over  and above commission) as
Mr O has done those  issues could  have been discoverable  earlier. That means  that I
consider Mr O could have discovered  or ought to have been  able to discover that something
had gone wrong.  As such I do not consider that s.32 extends  time in this complaint.
Ref: DRN77386363Although I do not have  the actual commission rates paid for this loan the typical  commission
rates seen by this service are not of such an amount that they could give rise to an unfair
relationship. We also disagree  that there  was a fiduciary relationship between the parties
which may also give rise to a need to disclose.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr O may have against the
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against the
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more  than likely exceeded the relevant time
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would  not be unreasonable for Clydesdale  to take
this into account  when considering Mr Os s.75 claim against it.
So, given that Mr Os claim now is more  than likely time barred under the Limitation Act,
I think Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7738636