K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside a credit card. Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs H says the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge or consent. But based 
on the evidence  Ive seen I think BoS made  it clear  that Mrs H didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say 
this having seen a copy of her postal credit card application form which she filled out and 
sent back to BoS.  In this there  is a section for PPI with two equally prominent  yes and no 
options for the cover. Mrs H signed  in the yes box to confirm she wanted to take out the 
PPI. And as this was a postal application without any evidence of any involvement from BoS 
asides from the provision of the application  form itself, she was free to make this decision in 
her own time and space.  Mrs H also signed at the bottom of the application form, so I think  
this reflected what she wanted  at the time.  
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs H says the PPI wouldnt have been  of any use to her because  she had other means to 
make her repayments. Shes said she was entitled  to redundancy and sick pay from her 
employer, and had some savings she couldve used. She also says she couldve sold her 
car. But upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 10% or £10 (whichever was greater) 
of her outstanding monthly balance. And this wouldve continued until the insured balance  
had been met or until Mrs H returned to work (whichever occurred first). So this means her 
redundancy, sick pay and savings  couldve been  used for other  expenses. And Ive seen 
from her credit agreement that she had other  outstanding debts at the time. This also means 
she didnt have to sell her car to keep up her repayments.
Mrs H also says she couldve relied on her partner to make her repayments for her. But help 
from others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances  can also change. And even  
though Mrs H had a critical illness policy  this wouldve  covered her for different 
eventualities than the PPI. So overall I still think she had a use for the PPI policy.
Ref: DRN72378812Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including  what she has said about  other  PPI 
complaints being  upheld  by BoS already. But each case is different and this complaint only 
concerns the circumstances  surrounding  the PPI taken out with her credit card in 1998. And 
as I cant consider the circumstances  of any other complaint in this decision, this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs H back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs H now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7237881