K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Arrow Global Limited  has unfairly recorded a default  on her credit file. 
She wants it removed.
background
Mrs W tells us she entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP),  in 2011, through a 
company Ill refer to as S. Since then she says shes kept to the payments S has required 
her to make. Mrs W says that as far as she was aware the level of payment was agreed 
between Arrow and S. And she doesnt have any say in the way her monthly  payments are 
divided between her various creditors. She tells us each year she completed regular 
financial assessments  with S and she thinks a change in her work situation  might have 
caused reduced payments. But as far as she was concerned Arrow  was accepting the 
payments and didnt  dispute the level of payments  with S or mention the possibility of 
default. Mrs W says shes  more concerned with date of default - as opposed to the default  
itself. And she feels if her account  was to be defaulted it should have happened much earlier 
- in 2012.
Arrow told us it had purchased the account  in December 2012. And it had accepted  
payments through the DMP.  The level had been  set at £56.13 per month. Arrow said it had 
been receiving  regular payments from S - but not at the contractual  amount. So arrears had 
accrued. It felt the default had been  correctly applied.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March  2019 in which I indicated my 
intention to uphold  the complaint in part and require  Arrow to record the default with effect 
from 25 February 2014.
Since then both parties have replied. Mrs W accepted the provisional decision but Arrow did 
not. It said its process was not to default  until after six months  arrears  had accrued. And it 
later clarified that this was calculated by reference  only to arrears  amounting  to a full monthly 
payment. It felt the provisional decision required it to administer the account  not using the 
processes it had in place.
I thank both parties for their responses but for reasons Ill set out in my final decision Im not 
minded to change  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs W has experienced financial difficulties over several years and the stress  
which goes with this. And its clear  she has tried to address the situation in a responsible
manner. I think the history of the debt is relevant to explaining how things have developed in 
a way Mrs W did not anticipate or fully understand.
In 2011 she fell into arrears with the previous owners of the debt, who Ill call V. And 
payments were missed  for around five months. Its arguable the account should have 
defaulted by V at this point. But a DMP was agreed  and this started  in October  2011.  
Payments at that time were set at £56.13.
Ref: DRN75822432Arrow purchased the debt from V in December 2012 with an outstanding balance  of over 
£4,700 and the payment  arrangement continued.  Payments  at this level continued to be 
made until December  2013 - when they reduced by around £6 per month. Since then whilst 
payments have been made regularly each  month  - the amounts have varied both upwards 
and downwards.  But they have not returned  to the original level.
I think its helpful to explain that a DMP is administered by an authorised  company or charity. 
In brief,  it will consider  the debtors financial situation and calculate a monthly amount it 
considers the debtor  can afford to repay creditors. That sum is then usually distributed on a 
pro-rata basis based on the amount  owed.  It is the administrator of the DMP which  
calculates the payments made  to each creditor - not the debtor. And it is in the nature of a 
DMP that payments  will be reviewed from time to time in line with Cs ability to pay. So its to 
be expected there will be variations  in payments offered over the period a DMP is in place.
S has told us that throughout  the plan it had kept in touch with Arrow by sending its 
proposed offer of payment whenever Mrs W completed a review of her finances. And it said 
whilst Arrow  had occasionally  informed it of the balance it hadnt said it was rejecting the 
payment; applying for a default;  or advised  S as to the minimum contractual payment for the 
debt.
Mrs W contacted  Arrow in early February  2014  as she was concerned about an arrears  
notice. Arrow has said it felt a satisfactory  explanation was given but I think its clear  Mrs W 
didnt fully understand the situation which  was developing. Mrs W was under the impression 
that the regular monthly payments to S were being  distributed to her creditors in the way 
agreed between  S and the creditors. And Mrs W herself had no direct say in the amount 
each creditor received. It was her belief - and in my view a reasonable belief - that provided 
she made the monthly payment  to S which it required - it would do the rest.
Although by February 2014 the original payment figure was three  months in arrears  its not 
until October 2014 that Arrow had the arrears recorded on her credit  file. And despite the 
account being in arrears  throughout (based  on the monthly payment due on the original 
agreement) it wasnt until February 2016 the account defaulted. Arrow has explained  that it 
calculates arrears only in relation to a complete months payment. For example, if a monthly  
payment is 20% less than agreed  it will take five months before it is considered to be one 
month in arrears. Arrow  also told us that its policy was to default after six months  of arrears 
had accumulated. But in Mrs Ws case - at the date of default  and using the figure Arrow 
considered the contractual monthly  repayment figure  - she was only four months in arrears.
Throughout this period  there were various contacts between Mrs W and Arrow  and also S 
and Arrow.  Because the notes are very brief its not possible  to see every detail of what  was 
discussed - but what is clear is Mrs W is maintaining her view that she is keeping  to the 
agreement as she understands  it. And its apparent that whilst Arrow  has at times  thought  
the matters resolved - it recorded  a complaint as withdrawn on 10 February 2015 - that was 
not in the same way as Mrs W understood.
Ive also considered guidance  issued  by the Information Commissioner.  This explains  that 
where revised payments - including  those under a DMP - are not made a default can be 
recorded. But it would expect this to occur  when there are between three and six months  
arrears.
The circumstances of this complaint are complex  and Ive given  very careful  consideration to 
the evidence and representations made  by both parties and to the information provided by S.
Ref: DRN75822433And where  evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities.
Ive reached the conclusion  that whats happened  is probably due to a genuine 
misunderstanding between all three parties.  And at least in part this is due to less than clear 
communication between  them.
As a result I think a situation arose where  Mrs W reasonably believed  she was making  the 
(variable) level of payments recommended.  And both she and S were  under the impression 
that Arrow  was treating the payments offered as acceptable. But Arrow considered the 
original repayment  figure  agreed to be the fixed - not variable - contractual amount. And so 
when payments fell below that level it considered the account to be further in arrears.
I do not seek to apportion  blame as its the nature of a misunderstanding  that each party acts 
upon its own interpretation of the situation.
Im required  to reach my decision on the basis of what  I consider to be a fair and reasonable 
resolution of the complaint. And I dont think that the present situation - in which Mrs W finds 
the default on this account was applied as late as February 2016 - is fair. Ive already  
expressed the view that the account should arguably have been defaulted in 2012. But that 
was not Arrows responsibility.  But it still remains the fact that the debt which  it purchased 
was in arrears from the outset.
Its not for me to tell Arrow what procedures it should have or how it should apply those. But 
where the adherence to a process leads to unfairness - as I think it has in this case - I do 
think there is a requirement for the individual circumstances of a case to be considered.
And its not clear if Arrow even followed its own process -as it told us its policy was to default  
only after six months arrears had accumulated. So I think that if it felt the reduced  and/or 
variable payments were  not acceptable it should have made this explicit.  The evidence  of S 
is that it was never informed of the minimum contractual repayment figure by Arrow - and so 
could not directly advise  Mrs W. 
Using the revised repayment figure  from the start of the DMP, the repayments had fallen 
behind for three successive months by February 2014. Having regard to the previous history  
of non-payment  which led to the DMP, I think Arrow should have concluded the point of 
default had been reached.  As Mrs W was on a DMP it should have accepted  the payments 
being made were  unlikely  to increase without a positive change in her circumstances. And 
there was no evidence this was likely.
By allowing the arrears  figure to increase incrementally  by a small amount each month over 
a two year period - and only then applying the default - it put Mrs W into a worse  position 
from the perspective of an account default  than if shed stopped paying altogether. As the 
effect of paying  a higher  proportion of the contractual sum was - in this case at least - simply 
delaying the recording  of the date of eventual default.
I dont think this presents  a fair reflection on how shes dealt with the debt which  has now 
been reduced to just under £1,300. So Ive reached the conclusion that the account should 
have been defaulted from 25 February 2014  - the date by which there  had been  three  
successive payments below the contractual amount.
Im aware that neither  party will be fully satisfied by the conclusion Ive reached  but I think in 
all the circumstances  its a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint. And so Im 
upholding the complaint  in the terms outlined.
Ref: DRN75822434my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint  - but only in part. Im ordering Arrow 
Global Limited to:
Make arrangements  to amend the date of default  it had recorded  on Mrs Ws credit file to 
25 February 2014.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7582243