K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about the price charged  by BUPA  Insurance Limited for her private 
medical insurance policy.
background
Mrs S had held the policy with BUPA  for many years. In 2018, BUPA offered to renew the 
policy for an annual  premium of £9,851. This incorporated a 25% discount to which  Mrs S 
was entitled through her membership of a particular organisation.
Mrs S was concerned at the price  of the policy, which  had risen  considerably  over the past 
three years. She spoke  to BUPA  to find out how much it would cost if she were to join as a 
new customer. She received a quote  of £4,463, which incorporated an introductory  No 
Claims Discount (NCD) of 65%.
Mrs S felt unable to take up the cheaper policy because it would mean foregoing  cover  for 
various existing conditions. However,  she considered the disparity  in the two quotes 
suggested she was being charged an unreasonable amount for her current policy. She 
complained to BUPA.
BUPA explained that the two policies had been  priced correctly but agreed to offer one 
months free cover for her current policy (worth £820) as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs S thought that BUPA hadnt properly justified the discrepancy in pricing. She still felt she 
was being overcharged for her policy. She referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He was satisfied that 
BUPA had acted  fairly in calculating Mrs Ss renewal premium. He didnt think it was 
reasonable to compare  the cost of her existing policy  with the cost of a new policy which  
would exclude  cover for her various  existing conditions.
Mrs S didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She explained that she received her quote  of 
£4,463 for the new policy before she was asked about any health issues,  so if shed had no 
existing conditions this was the price  she would have been  charged for exactly the same  
cover as her current policy. She considered the difference between this and her renewal  
premium was excessive. She thought shed been penalised through  continual  annual 
increases and said the fair result would be for BUPA to charge her the average  of the two 
amounts. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere.
Ref: DRN74848902BUPA has provided  Mrs S with a breakdown of the factors behind  the increase in her 2018 
renewal premium. Im satisfied it has calculated her premium fairly  and accurately. She has 
been subject to the same increase in premium as anyone else in her situation.  It is 
unfortunate that the price  of her policy has increased so much in recent  years  but I cant 
reasonably conclude from this that BUPA has acted unfairly and so cant  tell it to charge her 
a cheaper amount.
Mrs S has pointed  to the much cheaper  price  she would be charged if she were  to join as a 
new customer. However, this quote  was for a new policy which  would exclude cover  for 
existing conditions and symptoms. Furthermore,  the new policy  was subject to an NCD 
scheme which was different to the discount scheme  on her current policy and meant  that any 
claims she made under the new policy would have a greater proportionate effect on her 
future premiums. For these reasons, I agree with the adjudicator that the price  of the new 
policy cannot reasonably be compared to her current policy. I note that Mrs S decided  
against taking  out the new policy because it would mean she would not be covered for 
certain conditions.
Mrs S says that the quote was generated  before  shed even answered any questions relating 
to her health. That might be the case, but the quote  was generated in the knowledge that 
any existing conditions and symptoms could be excluded from cover.  The risk is therefore 
different to that of providing ongoing  cover, including for existing conditions, for someone of 
Mrs Ss age.
I should also point  out to Mrs S, though it wasnt a factor in my decision, that after adjusting  
for the respective 25% and 65% discounts,  the full price of her current  policy would be 
£13,134 and of the new policy would  be £12,751 which is closer than she may have realised.
I note that Mrs Ss policy has since renewed again  and has undergone a further increase. 
However, I havent addressed that increase in this decision. If Mrs S is unhappy about it, she 
will need  to raise it with BUPA as a new complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7484890