K820x#14Complaint and background
Mrs N and Mr T first raised a complaint with our service in August 2018.  This was due to the 
IT issues  TSB faced  at the end of April 2018. Mrs N and Mr T said their statements were 
showing incorrect amounts and this led to them going over their overdraft limit and incurring 
additional phone charges.  Our adjudicator recommended £150 compensation, plus £138.91 
for financial losses. Both Mrs N and Mr T and TSB agreed to the recommendation and the 
case was closed. 
Mrs N and Mr T have  since  opened a new complaint against TSB.  Theyve  said they 
switched their account from TSB to another provider in August 2018 and are being  chased 
by TSB for an outstanding debt they dont believe they owe.  This has led to TSB passing the 
debt to a third party and applying a default  to their credit file without warning. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She thought TSB had correctly applied  the default  
and that there was no evidence the outstanding debt was incorrect.  Mrs N and Mr T 
disagreed and said TSB had placed  a block on post being sent to their house so they didnt  
receive any letters about the debt.  
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  available to me, I think TSB has acted  correctly  and 
applied a default on the account appropriately.  Ill explain  my findings. 
In August  2018,  Mrs N and Mr T closed their joint account with TSB and transferred it to a 
new provider. They had a remaining overdraft  debt of £718.10 on the account  that needed to 
be repaid. I appreciate Mrs N and Mr T have said they disagreed with the amount 
outstanding as they felt some payments had gone missing  during the IT issues  TSB had. But 
they havent been able to provide any evidence of missing payments or highlight  the 
individual payments they feel went missing.  And I think its unlikely they suspected the entire 
amount of £718.10  wasnt owed by them, so I see no reason why they couldnt have agreed 
a repayment plan to begin partially repaying the debt. 
Mrs N and Mr T have  said they refused to pay the debt because they had an ongoing 
complaint against  TSB. Ive thought about this, but I can see the offer for the original 
complaint was accepted by them and sent via cheque by 5 September 2018, whereas the 
default wasnt applied  until 8 December 2018.  So I cant agree the complaint was still 
ongoing when  the default was applied. And even if a complaint  was ongoing, TSB are 
required to report a true and accurate  reflection of an account with the credit reference  
agencies. And if a debt that is owed is not repaid,  TSB should be reporting this, which is 
what they did.
Mrs N and Mr T say TSB placed a postal block on their address during  part of last year so 
its possible they didnt  receive the default  letters that TSB were required to send.  TSB has 
checked its internal  system and hasnt found  any postal blocks on the account.  It has also 
been able to produce letters sent to Mrs N and Mr T on 18 September 2018, 16 October  and 
Ref: DRN7627468221 November as well as contact notes showing these were sent. There  are also telephone  
notes from 20 October  in which Mrs N called to discuss  the letter she received about  the 
debt. So Im satisfied   Mrs N and Mr T were able to receive post at that time and I think  its 
more likely, considering  this and the letters TSB has been  able to produce,  that they 
received the default notice. 
I appreciate Mrs N and Mr Ts strength of feeling, but I cant  see that TSB has made an error 
in chasing the debt or applying a default  to the account when it was clear the relationship 
had broken down  between  them and Mrs N and Mr T. And I think TSB did enough  to 
communicate with Mrs N and Mr T during this time. So I dont think it needs to remove  the 
default from Mrs N and Mr Ts credit files. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to as Mrs N and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7627468