K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) has unfairly declined a Section 75 claim without proper explanation.
background
In December 2014, Mr P took out a fixed sum loan agreement to purchase a set of sofas.
 In November 2017, Mr P raised a Section 75 claim with BPF as he encountered  some 
issues with the goods requiring repair. Mr P understood  the sofas to be 100% leather but on 
repair found out this wasnt the case and so he felt a breach of contract  and/or 
misrepresentation had taken  place.  
Mr P originally said the damage to his sofa was accidental but after experiencing what  he 
considered poor customer service  in the way BPF handled his complaint, he commissioned 
an independent report. The independent report pointed towards wear and tear, the use of 
incorrect cleaning products on some areas of the furniture  and a manufacturing defect.  Mr P 
also comments that he made a Section 75 claim for the sofas with another  finance  provider, 
which has been upheld.  He has received a refund with a deduction of £1000 for usage over 
3 years.  He feels BPF have unfairly  declined his claim and failed to give him a reasonable 
explanation. He asks for the claim to be upheld, his remaining balance  with BPF written  off 
and for compensation including repayment  of the deduction made  from his successful claim 
with another provider.
BPF say the fabric of the sofa was made very clear in the product description, which reads:
..A combination of 100% genuine leather on all the seating and comfort  areas, with durable 
leather look fabric on the sides  and back,  which enables us to offer you the luxury of leather  
at an affordable price.
BPF say Mr P had the opportunity to inspect the sofa before purchase  and if the faults were 
present at the point of sale they feel they would have presented  earlier noting the sofas to be 
around 3 years old when  Mr P raised the matter with them. They  also say that as Mr P 
identified the damage to be accidental in nature this wouldnt be covered under a Section 75 
claim.
BPF also say the retailed offered to replace the affected parts of the sofa at a discounted 
rate and fir them free and they understood Mr P to have accepted this offer. Overall BPF 
didnt agree they could uphold Mr Ps claim.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. She concluded  BPF were within their rights to 
decline Mr Ps claim and they had explained how they reached  their decision in the final 
response issued  on 16 July 2018. She didnt agree BPF had acted  unfairly and so she didnt 
ask them  to do anything  further.
Mr P disagreed. He feels his independent  report clearly states there was a manufacturing 
default. He maintains he understood the whole suite to be 100% leather, hence  the reason 
he purchased a leather warranty. He asks for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
our investigators view and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN78378252Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what  I think is more 
likely to have happened.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr P has a like claim against BPF as he 
does against the retailer for breach of contract  and/or misrepresentation. For the purposes  of 
section 75, a breach of contract is where a supplier fails to do what  the contract  says it must, 
either expressly or impliedly.  For example, there is a breach  of contract where  goods,  which  
have been paid for, are not supplied,  or where  the goods are not up to standard.  A 
misrepresentation is where  the supplier makes  an untrue statement of fact that causes the 
consumer to go ahead with the contract.
The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what  happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim  under section 75. In considering a 
complaint about  a financial service  provider (in this case, BPF), Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. In deciding whats a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Ps complaint  Ive taken  section  75 into account.  But this 
doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome  as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr P pursued a claim  for breach of contract.
In order to uphold  the complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the sofa was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent fault as opposed to wear and 
tear or accidental  damage or misrepresentation of the goods had occurred.
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr P and BPF. In his letter dated 1 November 
2017, Mr P says he has been  generally happy with the goods but has recently noticed 
under the arms  of both reclining  chairs, a material which seems  to be plastic and not leather 
has started to split..this has come about by purely accidental  damage.
Mr P maintains he understood the sofas to be 100%  genuine leather and this is how the 
retailer sold them to him. Because  I wasnt present when the discussions took place  
between Mr P and the retailer,  I cant be certain of what was said.  Theres no 
contemporaneous evidence of what was discussed.  So I must look at the available  
information, such as the product description. It says:
..A combination of 100% genuine leather on all the seating and comfort  areas, with durable 
leather look fabric on the sides  and back,  which enables us to offer you the luxury of leather  
at an affordable price.
So its clear some elements of the sofa are 100% genuine leather but others are not. On 
balance, also taking  into account the purchase  price Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence to suggest a misrepresentation of the goods has taken place. 
Ive then looked at whether a breach of contract  has taken place. Originally,  Mr P said the 
damage was accidental but later commissioned an independent report, which highlights a 
number of issues. The report points  to the incorrect use of leather cleaning  wipes  on the 
areas of the furniture  that were leather  look fabric it goes  onto say:
..the use of these impregnated leather cream wipes will only ensure  cleaning and 
softening of the 'leather' content. When used on PVC vinyl material this typically  
Ref: DRN78378253causes  the vinyl to result in hardening/cracking  and eventual separation  of the layers 
with prolonged usage
And
..On inspection  of the Armchair, both arm lower panels are made using this vinyl 
material in a vital stress area on each side of the arm panels.  It is these areas that have 
now split and cracked and the vinyl material separated revealing  the back  coating in 
numerous areas on the arm sections where the top layer  has perished and separated as 
shown in our digital images attached.  This is a severe manufacturing  defect .
And
had the customer been correctly informed about the full leather/vinyl content of the suite 
at the point of sale and the difference required in the maintenance for both the leather and 
the vinyl this could  have potentially avoided the situation completely..
On the one hand, this report seems to suggest there  is an element of the suite that is a 
manufacturing defect  and another that suggest the use of incorrect cleaning  products on 
certain areas  of the suite has caused the faults  that could potentially have avoided  the 
situation completely.
I find it unusual that an independent engineer would comment on information  that may or 
may not have been given, as like myself, he wasnt present at the time of the sale or any 
discussions concerning  the maintenance of the suite.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that there was an inherent fault at the point 
of sale. Ive reached my conclusion on the balance of available evidence.  The suite was 
three years old at the time of the claim and in the original claim from Mr P says he has 
been generally happy  with it and also says the damage was accidental. The 
subsequent independent  report  further suggests  had the correct cleaning  products been 
used the damage  may have been avoided altogether and so Im of the opinion  the faults  
developed over time, rather than at the point of sale.
 On balance, I dont  think it was unreasonable for BPF to reject the section 75 claim,        
because I dont think theres enough  evidence  to show that the sofa was of unsatisfactory  
quality. In other words,  there was no breach of contract.
I know Mr P will be disappointed by my decision.  I would point out to Mr P that I have only 
looked at the available evidence from his claim against BPF. I havent seen or taken into 
account any of the evidence  that led a different financial provider to refund him for these 
sofas. I have also noted  the retailer offered to replace the parts  at a discounted rate and fit 
them at no charge to Mr P. I understand he accepted this offer. But I think  its important to 
say that had I reached a different outcome I would have deemed  the redress  he has 
already received to be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN78378254my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7837825