K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the level of service provided by Highway Insurance  Company Limited 
that led to the cancellation  of his motor insurance  policy. He wants  it to reimburse his costs  
and pay him compensation for his inconvenience.
background
Highway cancelled Mr Bs telematics policy after sending him a notification as it said he had 
twice exceeded  a speed limit. Mr B challenged this and, after Mr B provided further 
evidence, Highway agreed that the relevant speed  limit had changed. Highway then 
refunded Mr Bs fees. But Mr B was unhappy  as hed had to take out temporary  cover  
elsewhere and he had the inconvenience  of proving his case. 
Highway said Mr B hadnt told it hed taken out temporary cover. Highway also said if Mr B 
had responded  to the cancellation notice  it sent,  the situation may have  been  avoided.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Highway 
had made  an error and it should restore Mr Bs position. She thought  Highways error had 
led to Mr B taking out temporary cover and so it should refund him this cost and remove  any 
record of the cancellation.  She also thought  Mr B had been caused inconvenience  and upset 
and so Highway  should pay Mr B £75 compensation. 
Highway agreed  to refund the costs  of Mr Bs temporary cover,  with interest, and it removed 
records of the cancellation.  But it said it had already paid Mr B £56 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience, so it thought this should be deducted  from the £75 
recommended. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Highway cancelled Mr Bs policy because it said hed exceeded the speed limit at a location. 
Mr B disputed this and said that the speed  limit there had changed. But Highway didnt 
accept this. Mr B then provided photographs of the location and Highway agreed that its data 
was out of date.  So I think Mr Bs policy was cancelled  unfairly.   
When a business  makes a mistake, as Highway  agrees its done here, we think it should 
restore the consumers  position as far as its possible  to do so.
In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Highways  agent refunded  him its cancellation  fee and its 
new business fee. Highway also refunded its cancellation fee. So Mr B was charged just for 
his time on cover. Highway has confirmed that the cancellation hasnt been recorded  
anywhere and Mr B neednt disclose  it to future  insurers. I think  this was fair and reasonable 
as its what Id require  in similar situations.  
Highway also agreed to refund Mr B the cost of his temporary cover, with interest. I can see 
that Mr Bs provided evidence of this. I think this was fair and reasonable because  if the 
policy hadnt been cancelled, then Mr B wouldnt have incurred this cost.    
Ref: DRN79866122But Mr B was caused inconvenience  as he had to dispute Highways  data and he had to take 
photographs of the location  of the speeding  dispute for Highway. I think Mr B was also 
caused distress by the cancellation of his policy  and the need  to report  this to future insurers. 
I think this reasonably requires compensation, but I cant see that Highway paid Mr B any 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Highway said this was included in its refund of the agents new business fee. It said this was 
non-refundable as set out in its Terms of Business  and applied at the date of purchase. It 
said it wasnt relevant to the policys  cancellation.  But I dont agree. I think  that as the policy 
was cancelled unfairly, then Highway should  refund all its fees to restore Mr Bs position. 
The adjudicator recommended that Highway should  pay Mr B £75 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. I agree that this is fair and reasonable as its in keeping  with 
what Id award in similar situations.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Refund Mr B the cost of his temporary  cover, £49.73, adding interest at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum  from the date of payment  to the date of settlement. 
2.Pay Mr B £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
cancellation of his policy and by having  to dispute this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7986612