K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the information on his Equifax  Limited  credit  report. He says its 
inaccurate and theyve failed to remove it despite his requests.
background
Mr H complained to Equifax that the information  on his credit  report was incorrect  in relation  
to accounts he held with four banks. In response, Equifax provided him with a copy of his 
credit report  to review and said:
If once  you receive your credit report and you think that theres  incorrect  information 
recorded we can raise a dispute with the data supplier for you. The data on your 
credit report  can only be amended by the data provider, who is the owner of the 
information. For us to proceed with your dispute well need  to get some information 
from you about the data you are disputing as factually incorrect.
Mr H replied that he was challenging any default notices relating to several different financial 
businesses and telecommunications  providers.
Equifax explained that only three  of the businesses Mr H had referred to, appeared on his 
credit report;  these being two banks showing active accounts with no adverse information  
and one defaulted account with a telecommunications provider. Mr H said he was disputing  
the default because the telecommunications provider had provided him with defective/faulty 
goods.  He also referred to a default  involving another bank, but that wasnt on his credit 
report.
Equifax explained that they couldnt  assist Mr H when  hed first contacted them  about  his 
dispute in 2018 because  he hadnt obtained a copy  of his credit  report and didnt provide any 
detail about what  he was disputing. But they offered  to raise a dispute  with the 
telecommunications provider if he could provide  further details on why he thought the 
information about that account was wrong.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She explained that as a credit  reference 
agency, Equifax  stores  the information provided to it by other businesses. She said if a 
consumer raises a dispute about something  recorded on their credit  report, Equifax can raise 
that with the business who reported the information, but they cant change it themselves. So, 
she suggested that Mr H raise his dispute  with the telecommunications provider whod  
reported the default in the first place.
She added that she thought Equifax had tried to help Mr H in 2018 and more recently, but as 
he hadnt provided more detail about  his dispute, she wouldnt have expected  Equifax to do 
anything differently.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he felt Equifax have done  something wrong and wants  to be 
compensated.
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN76011132my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs Equifax credit report from February 2019 and it included one 
default relating  to an account with a telecommunications provider. The default is dated 
September 2016. If Mr H doesnt agree that he defaulted on this account or agrees that he 
defaulted but believes he had good reasons  for doing so, he should take this up with the 
telecommunications provider who registered  the information on his credit file.
Its not for Equifax to decide whether Mr H was provided with goods  of a satisfactory quality 
by the telecommunications provider. Nor is it for Equifax  to adjudicate on whether Mr H 
defaulted on this account. Equifaxs role is to accurately report  the information it receives 
from credit  account providers and other sources, and Ive seen no evidence  that suggests 
Equifax have mistakenly included this default  on Mr Hs credit report.
Overall, in the context  that Mr H only provided  Equifax  with very limited information  about his 
reasons for disputing  the content  of his credit  report,  I think  Equifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. They offered  to make reasonable enquiries of the provider, as wed expect when 
someone disputes something  on their credit file, but I dont think  Mr H gave them  enough 
information to go ahead  with that.
Although I know Mr H will be disappointed by what Ive said,  I have no basis  on which  to ask 
Equifax to do anything  more about his complaint, and I wont be asking them to pay him the 
compensation he seeks.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2021.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7601113