K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Phoenix Life Limiteds  linked company told him and his late wife 
they had to take out insurance cover to get the new mortgage in 1990, something they 
werent required to do for their first mortgage back in 1978. He said they had no need  for the 
policy as they already  had sufficient cover and/or funds in place.
background
Phoenix Life rejected  Mr Ls complaint. It said that its advisor had not recommended or 
arranged the mortgage in 1990 so it could not say whether insurance  cover was a 
requirement but that many lenders did insist on mortgage protection in the 1990s.  
An adjudicator at this service  felt there  wasnt sufficient evidence to indicate  that they had 
been told the policy was compulsory or that they already had sufficient cover in place.  He did 
not accept that Mr Ls assertion that they could have  paid off the mortgage via their wages 
demonstrated this.
Further, he said that if Barclays, the mortgage provider, had made  life cover a condition  of a 
mortgage offer in 1990, and Mr L thought this was unreasonable, he would need to contact 
Barclays about this stipulation.
Mr L did not agree, and said:
They specifically told the advisor  that they didnt want the mortgage protection  plans 
but he insisted  that they needed  it
They werent advised to take out cover  when they took out their first Barclays 
mortgage, so why did things change by 1990?
The evidence indicates that Phoenix Life was closely linked with Barclays Bank at the 
time of the sale
There might have  been a commission arrangement between  the two, meaning 
Phoenix Life was at least partially  responsible  for the protection  condition
This policy was a form of PPI which is now widely recognised  as having been mis-
sold, with businesses  paying out billions in compensation. What  is the difference?
The adjudicators  assessment  was based on whether  he thought the policy was 
suitable but this isnt the complaint hes made.  Rather it is that they misled into 
believing it was compulsory
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should like to confirm that I am satisfied that this complaint is correctly set up 
against Phoenix Life as this is the business who is the current owner  of the business  which  
advised Mr and Mrs L to take out this policy. I recognise there  has been some  confusion 
Ref: DRN75306492given a different  business gave this advice and that the advisor was based in a third 
business premises at the time.
Id also like to explain that this policy is very different from the types of PPI policies which 
have been the subject  of such  criticism.  It is a traditional life insurance policy which is 
guaranteed to pay out in the event of the life assureds death so does not have the sort of 
eligibility to claim issues which many PPI policies  had; nor was its cost hidden within a 
product sale, as often  occurred with PPI sales. So I dont accept we should be assessing  the 
case within a PPI-prism. This was partly why the adjudicator explained that the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, irrespective of whether  they wanted it. Many  PPI policies were 
manifestly unsuitable and would have  never  paid out in the event of a claim.
I recognise, however,  that Mr Ls complaint is that he and his wife were told it was 
compulsory  a condition of the mortgage  offer  and that they didnt want it and felt they had 
sufficient resources to pay off the mortgage if necessary.
As there is no evidence  that the policy was assigned to Barclays, the lender, I think it is more 
likely than not that insurance  protection was not a condition of the new mortgage i.e. Mr and 
Mrs L did not need to take this policy out. If, however, it was a condition then there can by 
definition be no grounds to uphold this complaint as the advisors alleged remarks were  true.
But on the assumption that it wasnt  compulsory,  Ive had to consider whether there is 
sufficient, persuasive evidence to fairly conclude that the advisor definitely misled Mr and 
Mrs L, claiming life cover  was a condition of the mortgage offer.  
While I dont doubt Mr Ls recollections, these relate to a conversation  which took place 29 
years ago, and for which there is no supporting evidence. The advisors  paperwork makes  
no reference to the policy  being  compulsory; instead he writes:  Suggested term assurance  
as Mr L wished to pay off mortgage I accept that this statement is not definite evidence 
about what was discussed, but as Mr and Mrs L paid off the mortgage and cancelled  this 
policy many  years ago it is not surprising  that Phoenix doesnt retain any more  evidence 
about the sale.
Overall, there is not enough evidence to safely conclude that the advisor,  in effect, lied or 
misled Mr and Mrs L about the need for this policy.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7530649