K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Pyramid Financial Solutions  Limited.
background
Ombudsman Hilary Bainbridge set out the full background to this complaint in her provisional 
decision which she issued on 4 January 2019. She has since left the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, and so this case has been  passed  to me, Richard Hill, to make  a final decision on.
Her provisional decision is attached here and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  were invited  to provide any further  information they wished to be considered. 
Pyramid commented briefly on Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time they took out the 
PPI, and why it felt PPI couldve  been  helpful for them. Mr and Mrs S didnt respond to the 
provisional decision by the deadline given in it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the findings and decision that Hilary Bainbridge put forward.
As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change  her outcome, 
which was not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs S have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72070452Copy  of provisional decision by Hilary Bainbridge
complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Pyramid Financial Solutions Limited mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them.
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs S were  sold PPI by Pyramid (a mortgage and insurance  advisor)  to cover a 
mortgage they already  had. The policy covered both of them for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Mr and Mrs S told us initially that the policy  had not been explained to them, and they 
had been told that they had to take it out.
Our adjudicators recommended  that the complaint was not upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for review and a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website. And Ive taken  this into account in considering  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Initially Pyramid questioned whether the complaint was brought  out of time and so not in our 
jurisdiction. Nothing I have  read or been told leads  me to disagree with my colleagues earlier  decision 
that the complaint is in our jurisdiction.
I know Mr and Mrs S say they had been told they had to take the PPI. But I have seen  various 
evidence which makes  me think that Pyramid had made it clear that the PPI was optional. That 
includes the following.
-A letter sent by Pyramid to Mr and Mrs S in January  2005.  It referred to the fact that both life 
insurance and PPI policies had been  discussed in a recent meeting. It said Although none of 
the policies are mandatory or compulsory  as part of your mortgage arrangement,  it is a 
means to protect  you both  It went on to note that at that point Mr and Mrs S had decided to 
arrange only a life assurance  policy.
-Documents  completed by Pyramid for Mr and Mrs S when the PPI was sold several months 
later, in August 2005.  These included  some details of their financial situation, declarations  
they had made about factors  affecting their eligibility for the PPI policy, and basic details  
about the policy including the monthly premium and level of monthly benefit. They  made  it 
clear that the benefit was being set at a level to cover not only their mortgage but other key 
expenses too.
Mr and Mrs S already had their mortgage  (so cant  have  thought PPI was a requirement to get that). 
The first letter stated clearly that they didnt have to take the PPI policy, and initially they decided not 
to, before taking it months later. So I think that at the time they must  have known the PPI was 
optional, but eventually chose to take it.
Pyramid recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S so it needed to check whether it was suitable for 
them. From what I know of their circumstances  I think that it was. 
The declarations made when the PPI was sold confirm that Mr and Mrs S were both eligible for the 
policy. And they werent affected by any of the main limitations in the policy  (such as those about  
existing medical conditions) which might have made it particularly difficult for some people  to make a 
successful claim.
Ref: DRN72070453Mr and Mrs S hadnt been in their jobs long enough  to be likely to qualify for much redundancy pay 
and have told us they didnt have any savings. Recently Mr and Mrs S have said that they were  both 
entitled to six months of full sick pay followed by six months of half pay from their employers. But 
initially they told us they couldnt remember. And the documents completed when they applied for the 
PPI recorded that they each only had entitlement to 30 days of sick pay. The fact that that information  
was given  back in 2005, and the nature of their employment, both make that lower level of sick pay 
seem to me more likely to be correct than the higher level they gave recently.  But even if they did 
have the higher level of sick pay, I still think the policy was suitable for them. 
Following the adjudicators views  Mr and Mrs S expressed concern that they wouldnt be able to claim  
for sickness under the policy if they were getting full sick pay from work: so wouldnt be able to claim  
for the first six months of any sickness.  That isnt how most  PPI policies worked  - usually they paid 
out on top of any sick pay from work. And the policy document Pyramid had sent us initially  didnt 
contain a restriction of that sort. 
But Pyramid  then sent us more information which initially  seemed to suggest  that Mr and Mrs S might  
be correct. However,  we have now been in direct contact with the insurer (not just Pyramid or the 
current claims handler).  It is clear that the initial  policy thats likely  to have been sold to Mr and Mrs S 
was of the usual sort and they would  still have been able to claim for sickness even if they were 
getting full sick pay from work.  It seems that the restriction on claiming  while getting full sick pay from 
work was only introduced to the policy later. I am only considering the initial sale of the policy.
So the PPI Mr and Mrs S were originally sold would  have  paid out on top of any benefits Mr or Mrs S 
received from work for sickness or compulsory  redundancy. And after a 30 day waiting  period, the PPI 
would have paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 months if necessary.
Overall I think the PPI could have been useful if either of them was sick or out of work  for any length 
of time (even  if they did have the higher sickness benefit they have now mentioned). 
Mortgage PPI often is suitable for people  like Mr and Mrs S with some benefits  from work. A mortgage 
is a big commitment with substantial repayments to find each month, and the risk of losing your home 
if you cant keep up with them. So PPI can provide useful increased security. And as they were paying  
for it monthly they could  cancel it without further cost if at any time their situation changed or they no 
longer wanted it - as I understand they ultimately  did.
The documentation from when the PPI was sold includes  a quotation giving a lot of basic detail to Mr 
and Mrs S about the policy, its benefits and cost. 
But its still possible Pyramid didnt  give Mr and Mrs S good enough information  about  the policy. 
However, as Ive explained, I think Mr and Mrs S chose to take cover of that sort, and the PPI sold 
wasnt unsuitable for them. So I think that its unlikely that clearer information  would  have put them off 
taking out the PPI. Thats because I think its likely  they would have  decided the PPI provided useful 
cover at a reasonable cost. 
When I dont  think Mr and Mrs S lost out because of anything  Pyramid  might have done wrong,  I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to uphold  the complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, but subject to further comments or evidence I receive  from Mr and 
Mrs S or Pyramid Financial  Solutions Limited , my provisional decision is not to uphold  this complaint.  
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7207045