K821x#15Complaint
Ms W complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) treated her unfairly  by 
withdrawing a mortgage  offer they made.
Background
Ms W applied through her financial adviser,  who Ill call D for a buy to let mortgage with 
Co-op. The mortgage was for the purchase  of a new a buy to let property on a fixed  rate of 
2.24% for two years  with no arrangement fee. In May 2018, Co-op made  a mortgage offer 
(the offer) based on the terms Ms W had requested. But in late June  2018,  just before 
Ms W was due to complete on the purchase  of her property, Co-op withdrew the offer. 
They explained theyd  been made told by Ms Ws solicitor that the outstanding lease on the 
property wasnt 99 years which had been input on the application form. And when  theyd 
reviewed the application  to update this information, theyd also undertaken a case audit 
which had identified Ms W wasnt a UK tax payer.  So, they couldnt offer her a mortgage. 
Ms W complained to Co-op. She said she was a UK tax payer, but her employer had a 
special arrangement in place with HMRC for tax purposes. She said in May 2018, she had 
given Co-op the details  of this arrangement and the contacts at HMRC, so they could 
contact HMRC if they had any concerns or needed clarification before the offer was issued. 
Ms W felt it was unfair  that Co-op  had revoked  the offer without  speaking  to HMRC to clarify  
her tax status. She also said that because the offer was withdrawn just before she was due 
to complete this had caused her significant  inconvenience. So, she asked for the urgent 
reinstatement of the offer. 
Co-op didnt uphold the complaint. They said because Ms W wasnt subject to UK or 
Guernsey tax, she didnt  meet their lending criteria. So, the application had been  withdrawn 
and they refused to reinstate it. As Ms W was so close to completion  on her property 
purchase, she had to take out a mortgage  with another lender. But this was on a higher rate 
of 2.79%,  fixed for five years instead of two, with an arrangement fee of £995.  Ms W didnt 
think Co-op had treated  her fairly, so she asked us to look in-to her complaint.
After the complaint had been  brought to this service, Co-op reconsidered  Ms Ws complaint 
and upheld it in part. They acknowledged theyd made a mistake when theyd assessed 
Ms Ws salary, and incorrectly issued a mortgage  offer, but they said the offer would  have 
been withdrawn  anyway. 
Co-op explained that when Ms W had applied for the mortgage, shed told them that the 
lease on the property was 99 years, but in late June 2018, Ms Ws solicitors confirmed it was 
only 62 years - which was below their minimum lending criteria of 70 years,  meaning  the 
application was declined. They said that because of the lower term of the lease, regardless 
of Ms Ws tax status, they would never have accepted the initial application for this property. 
However, Co-op acknowledged theyd made  a mistake by issuing the offer, so they were 
prepared to refund Ms W the £135  valuation  fee shed paid to them  and a further £75 for the 
trouble and upset  shed  been caused.   
In February 2019,  Co-op increased  their compensation  offer to Mrs W. This included the 
difference between  her previous and new mortgage repayments for a period of three months 
(totalling £149) and a further £100  compensation for the inconvenience  caused. Ms W didnt 
agree as she felt shed  been financially disadvantaged, and Co-op had treated her badly.  
Ref: DRN74157462Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She felt Co-op had applied their 
residency and tax term unfairly given Ms Ws unique employment situation, and that the offer 
shouldnt have been withdrawn. The investigator  felt because of the impact  on Ms W that 
Co-op should refund the valuation fee as agreed  and refund  the difference  in monthly 
payments for the two-year term Ms W had taken  out originally and pay her £250 for the 
trouble and upset  caused.    
Co-op agreed, but Ms W didnt. She didnt think this was enough compensation due to the 
extra costs  shed incurred  in re-mortgaging with her new lender- and the higher interest rate 
shed had to pay due to changes in market conditions since her original application. She felt 
that she should be refunded the difference for the new five-year rate she had taken and the 
£995 arrangement  fee shed paid for the new mortgage. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached the case has been  passed  to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October  2019.  I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ill explain  why. 
I need to consider whether I think its fair and reasonable for Co-op  to rely on the lending 
policy requirement theyve  quoted  to withdraw  Ms Ws mortgage offer. And in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  it is.
In relation to the lease, Ive seen  that the application form submitted to Co-op by D in May 
2018 shows a lease term of 99 years. And that they only found out post offer from Ms Ws 
solicitor in June 2018  it was only 62. And Ive also seen a copy of Co-ops lending criteria  
confirming that the lease  had to be a minimum of 70 years.
The terms of the mortgage offer clearly stated  that it could be withdrawn if there  was a 
change in the condition, value or title to the property which has a material impact  on the 
suitability of the property as security  for the loan. I accept that the term of a lease can 
impact the suitability of the property as security  for a mortgage. And as Ive said above,  
Co-op didnt know  about the correct lease term until after the offer was made. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Co-op  to withdraw  the offer on this basis.
But Ive also noted  that Co-op told us theyd received confirmation from Ms Ws solicitors on 
29 June 2019  that the lease was being  extended  back to 99 years and theyd updated on 
their records. So, I think  its likely that the lease issue wouldve been resolved before the 
expiry of the mortgage  offer.  For these reasons, I dont think the lease was a factor  that was 
going to prevent this mortgage  offer from being reinstated.
The key issue in this case is Ms Ws tax status. Ive noted Co-ops revised  explanation that 
this wasnt the reason  why the offer was withdrawn.  But I disagree  given  that Co-ops final 
response letter to Ms W in June 2018, and their letter to us of February 2019, say the reason 
the offer was withdrawn was due to Ms Ws income  tax status.  Co-ops contact notes from 
late June and early  July 2018  also confirm  the same.  And, given what Ive said above  about 
the lease, Im satisfied  that this was the only remaining possible reason for Co-op to refuse 
to reinstate the offer.
Ref: DRN74157463Under the terms of the mortgage offer, Co-op reserved the right to withdraw or vary the offer 
at any time subject to five different  conditions. The condition they relied upon in this case 
was that There has been a material change in your circumstances since  the date that we 
issued your mortgage offer which is likely to have a material impact on your ability to afford 
the loan and: a) We were not aware  of the change before we provided  the offer to you; and 
b) Had we been  aware of the change we would not have provided  the offer to you on these 
terms. And their lending criteria state  that if the applicant(s) are not subject to UK or 
Guernsey tax, then they are not acceptable.  
However, Ive seen clear  evidence that shows Co-op knew about Ms Ws tax status and had 
noted this on their file at the end of May 2018.  Their records  show they received a letter from 
D which confirmed the name of Ms Ws employer, and that the employer was exempt from 
paying income tax. So, they had to calculate their employees tax requirements, and the 
abatement deductions on the payslips were Ms Ws tax payments. Ive also seen  that before 
the mortgage offer was issued, Co-op  also received letters from Ms Ws solicitors, a letter  for 
her employer confirming  her tax status  and the contact details for the relevant HMRC 
department if they had any queries they wanted to clarify.  
So, although  Co-op now says they didnt know this until a post offer audit had taken place, 
this clearly isnt right.  Although  Co-op may not have picked up on it until that point, the 
correspondence from Ms Ws broker  was very clear  and it was copied  almost verbatim onto 
their own file notes. And its not Ms Ws fault that this was identified  after shed already 
received the offer.  I dont  think it was fair for Co-op to withdraw  the offer under the above  
condition, as they hadnt received new information  about Ms Ws tax status  after the offer 
was issued. So, I think the fairest solution in these circumstances wouldve been for Co-op  to 
have reinstated  the offer. And by not doing  so I think Ms W was financially disadvantaged as 
she had to pay additional fees and a higher rate with the new lender than she would have 
with Co-op. 
Ms Ws told us she felt as shed had to pay a higher rate and take out a longer fixed rate on 
her new mortgage, she should be refunded the difference over the five-year  period. As it 
wasnt her fault market conditions changed between when  shed initially applied for the 
mortgage with Co-op  to when she took out the new one. However,  my role is to look at 
putting Ms W back in the position she shouldve been had Co-op  not withdrawn the offer.  
Meaning that Ms W wouldve had the fixed rate for a period of two years  only, after which  
she wouldve either switched onto the standard  variable rate (SVR)  or moved onto a new 
rate. So, although Ms W has now ended  up with a five-year rate instead that doesnt 
necessarily mean shes out of pocket because the SVR or any new rate may have  been  
higher. As theres no way of me knowing that I dont think  itd be fair to ask Co-op to 
compensate Ms W beyond the two-year fixed rate period she wouldve had if nothing  had 
gone wrong. 
Finally, Ive considered  the issue of the £135 valuation fee and £995 arrangement fee Ms W 
paid to the new lender. Ms W wouldve always had to pay these fees in order  to take 
advantage of the mortgage offer. But by Co-op  withdrawing the offer unfairly Ms W was left 
with no choice but to re-mortgage with another lender. And incur these costs a second time. 
So, the fairest solution is for Co-op to refund both the valuation fee and the £995 
arrangement fee. As Ms W paid the £135 fee upfront, Co-op  also need to add 8% simple 
interest annually  to this amount from the date it was paid, to the date of settlement.
But I note that Ms W received £250 cashback from her new mortgage lender, which she 
wouldnt have received if shed continued  with Co-ops offer.  I need  to take this into account 
Ref: DRN74157464because it wouldnt be fair to expect Co-op to put Ms W in a better position that she wouldve 
been in if nothing had gone wrong. So, the £250  needs to be deducted  from the 
arrangement fee amount, leaving a total of £745 payable  to Ms W. Ive also seen that Ms W 
added the arrangement fee to her mortgage  with the new lender. So, Co-op  also need to add 
the cost of the 2.79% simple interest  annually  (the mortgage interest  rate with the new 
lender) on the £745 part of the fee Ms W added to her mortgage,  from the date it was paid to 
the date of settlement.
Ive noted what  Ms W says about the impact this has had on her. In particular, the stress 
from the offer being withdrawn so close to the completion date, and time she had to spend  
gathering supporting information to clarify her tax status and looking for alternative lender. 
So, I dont think the offer of £100 compensation for her trouble and upset is enough. These 
events no doubt  added  additional, unnecessary stress at what tends to be a stressful time 
anyway for any customer who is looking to purchase  a property. And Ms W then had the 
additional inconvenience  of having to find another mortgage at short  notice. So, think Co-op 
should pay her an additional  £150   making a total of £250. 
I invited Ms W and Co-op to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.  Both parties responded to my provisional decision  
to say they accepted it.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties  have responded to say they accept my provisional  
decision, I see no reason  to reach  a different conclusion. 
So, this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN74157465My final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. 
I direct  The Co-operative Bank Plc to:
Refund the difference in monthly  payments between the mortgage rate offered by 
Co-op in May 2018 and the new one Ms W was given by her new lender,  from the 
date Ms W completed her mortgage with the new lender up until the date her 
two-year fixed rate with Co-op  would have ended;
Refund the £135 valuation fee, plus 8% simple  interest annually  from the date the fee 
was paid to the date of settlement*;
Refund £745 of the product fee, plus 2.79% simple interest annually from the date 
the fee was paid to the date of settlement*;
Pay Ms W a total of £250  compensation for her material  distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman
*If The Co-operative  Bank  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms W how much  its taken off. It should also 
give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7415746