K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a Total Mortgage Payment 
Protection (TMPP) policy  in 2004.
background
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical illness  cover. The 
individual elements of the cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes.  The 
policy started in 2004. 
In this case the TMPP policy provided  a life insurance element for Mrs B only. It cost £12.22  
per month and wouldve paid out £120,000  if Mrs B had died during the term of the 
mortgage.
Mr B was sold Mortgage Repayments Cover (MRC). This was PPI that covered Mr B against  
being unable  to work due an accident, sickness or unemployment. The cost of the cover  was 
£49.07 per month and wouldve paid a monthly  benefit of £809.68 per month for up to 24 
months if Mr B had made  a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think BoS had mis-sold either element of the TMPP. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed  to me.
In January 2019 I issued my provisional  findings on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and invited 
both parties to comment and send  me any additional  evidence they wanted me to think 
about. A copy of my provisional  decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that:
I thought BoS had mis-sold the MRC cover to Mr B. The policy contained  an exclusion for 
claims made  for pre-existing medical  conditions. Mr B had such  a condition and I didnt think  
hed have taken  the policy if BoS had made  the exclusion clear to him.
I didnt think BoS mis-sold  the life assurance  element of the TMPP to Mrs B. 
I said BoS needed to put things right by refunding  all the premiums  Mr and Mrs B paid for 
the MRC  cover  sold to Mr B. And it needed to add compensatory interest  for the time theyd 
been out of pocket.
BoS has said it accepts  the findings  I set out in my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B have  written with further  information.
Theyve questioned  why the decision only relates  to the TMPP sold in 2004. Mr and Mrs B 
say they were sold other PPI policies on earlier mortgages.
Mr and Mrs B say they had other endowment policies  in place in 2004 which would have 
provided life cover for Mrs B.
Ref: DRN70217512my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS has accepted my provisional finding that the MRC  cover  was mis-sold to Mr B. And its 
agreed to pay compensation as set out in my provisional findings. So I see no reason to alter 
those findings.
Mr and Mrs B say they may have been sold PPI with earlier mortgages. This decision only 
deals with the complaint brought to this service  about the TMPP sale in 2004.  If Mr and     
Mrs B feel they were mis-sold other PPI policies, they need  to contact BoS about  them  in the 
first instance.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Bs new information  about endowment  policies they held in 
2004 but I dont think  this makes a difference to my provisional findings.
I think it is likely that Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the life cover for Mrs B. And I think they 
chose to continue  with it even after cancelling the MRC cover  for Mr B.
It could be that Mrs B already had life cover  with other endowment  policies. But that doesnt  
mean the cover taken  in 2004  was mis-sold.  The 2004 cover would mean that the new 
mortgage would be repaid  if Mrs B died. This would mean that Mr B could use any additional  
payment from any endowment policies for other uses. For instance to produce  income  to 
replace Mrs Bs.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said but these points dont change my 
provisional findings.
putting things right
BoS should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out the 
MRC element of the TMPP. The MRC should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled 
already, and BoS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the MRC. My understanding  is 
the MRC  premiums were  around  £49.07 per month and were paid between  2004 and 
2006.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the MRC policy, BoS can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs B.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give      
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN70217513my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above  I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint about  the life cover sold to cover Mrs B.
But I do uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the MRC cover sold to Mr B and direct   
Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN70217514complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a Total Mortgage Payment  Protection 
(TMPP) policy  in 2004.
background
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically  includes payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
together with other  features, such as life insurance  and critical illness cover.  The individual elements 
of the cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes.  The policy started  in 2004. 
In this case the TMPP policy provided a life insurance  element for Mrs B only.  It cost £12.22 per 
month and wouldve paid out £120,000 if Mrs B had died during the term of the mortgage.
Mr B was sold Mortgage  Repayments Cover (MRC). This was PPI that covered  Mr B against  being 
unable to work due an accident, sickness or unemployment.  The cost of the cover was £49.07 per 
month and wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £809.68  per month for up to 24 months if Mr B had 
made a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think BoS had mis-sold either element of the TMPP. Mr and Mrs B disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the life insurance  element of the TMPP 
sold to cover Mrs B.
I am, however  intending  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the MRC element sold to cover Mr 
B. 
Ill explain why:
BoS advised Mr and Mrs B to take out both elements of the TMPP. So BoS had to make sure the 
policies were  right for them.  It also had to give Mr and Mrs B enough clear information  so they could 
make an informed  decision  about  whether  to buy the cover.
Life cover  sold to Mrs B.
The policy was sold 14 years ago so it isnt surprising  that BoS doesnt have copies of all the 
paperwork completed  at the time. I also have to take into account that memories can fade over time. 
In cases  like this, where the evidence is incomplete, I make my decision  on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, on what I think is most likely  to have happened.  
Mr and Mrs B applied  for the mortgage and were sold the TMPP during a meeting at a branch. Ive 
taken into account what we know  about  how BoS sold these policies  in branches around this time and 
the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases  made it clear to 
consumers that the policy  was optional and they would  have been asked for their consent  to the 
cover.
Although Mrs B wasnt working  at the time the mortgage was taken I note it was taken  out in joint 
names. I think its reasonable to think that Mr and Mrs B would have wanted the mortgage repaid if 
Mrs B had died during  the term of the mortgage.  This would allow Mr B the freedom to reduce his 
working hours or perhaps to employ help to maintain the home while  he continued  working. 
Ref: DRN70217515Ive also thought  about  the level of cover the policy  provided and the premium.  The policy gave Mrs B 
£120,000 cover over the term of the mortgage term, and the premium  was £12.22 per month. The 
premium seems to be competitive and Ive not seen  any evidence  it was unaffordable.
I also note that in 2006  Mr and Mrs B cancelled the MRC  cover for Mr B but continued  with the life 
cover for Mrs B, which  makes me think they valued the cover at that time.
All this makes me think  the life cover for Mrs B was a suitable recommendation  for the BoS adviser to 
make. I cant  be sure what information was given to Mr and Mrs B about  the life cover. But it seems to 
me that they wanted  the life cover for Mrs B, and it seems to have been right for them.  So even if BoS 
had given them all the clear information it shouldve,        I still think  theyd have bought the life cover.  
Mr Bs MRC cover
I dont think the MRC policy was a suitable policy to recommend to Mr B.
Mr B suffered  an accident in 1989.  Hes told us the accident left him paraplegic.
The MRC policy covered  Mr B against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
BoS has told us that Mr Bs condition would not have affected his ability to make a claim on the policy.
I disagree. The policy  contained exclusions meaning that Mr B would not have been able to make a 
sickness claim if he was off work due to a pre-existing medical condition. In my view Mr Bs condition 
could have led to other related medical conditions that could have  led him to have  to take time off 
work. And I think hed likely have had difficulty making  a successful claim if that situation arose.
From the notes supplied to me by BoS I can see that Mr B was told that because of his condition he 
could not apply for life cover or critical  illness cover under  the TMPP. It seems he was directed to a 
specialist adviser for life cover advice. This in itself shouldve alerted  the BoS adviser that a 
recommendation for a policy that covered  for time off due to sickness, but excluded pre-existing 
conditions wasnt suitable  for Mr B.
I dont think Mr B wouldve  taken  out the MRC  cover if hed been made aware it was unsuitable for 
him.
So BoS mis-sold the MRC  element of the TMPP and needs to put things right.
putting things  right
BoS should  put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken  out the MRC 
element of the TMPP. The MRC should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled already,  and BoS 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the MRC. My understanding is the MRC 
premiums were around £49.07 per month and were paid between 2004 and 2006.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
If Mr B made a successful claim  under the MRC policy, BoS can take off what  he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs B.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest.  BoS must give      Mr and 
Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN70217516my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the life cover sold to cover Mrs B.
But I am intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the MRC cover sold to Mr B and direct 
Bank of Scotland  plc to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation as set out above.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7021751