K820x#14complaint
Ms J is unhappy with U K Insurance  Limited.  She says it has incorrectly  recorded  claims 
information against her home insurance policy.
background
There was an accident in Ms Js bathroom so she contacted UKI. Ms J said that she didnt 
log a claim.  UKI sent two separate suppliers  to her home to inspect the damage. Ms J then 
did the minor  repairs herself  but UKI logged the details  on its record and external industry  
database records too. When renewal came  up Ms J changed policy  to another  insurer and 
found out about UKI recording the claim against  her record. The records  showed  under £100 
was paid out and Ms J is clear that she never received any payment for the claim and shed 
done the repair herself. The claim was showing as still open, her new premium had 
increased and her no claims discount had been  reduced.
Ms J asked UKI to close the claim and remove the record. She was unhappy about the 
record and the impact on her new no claims discount and premium.  UKI accepted it couldve 
told Ms J about logging the claim record but said the record  was correct and wouldnt 
remove it. Ms J brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said UKI had only noted its costs  for 
investigating the claim and this was reasonable. Our investigator  noted the claim was still 
open at the point when  Ms J moved  her policy. He said it was reasonable for the claim to 
have been left open until Ms J confirmed it should  be closed. Ms J remained  unhappy  and 
asked for her complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the point Ms J is making.  As far as shes concerned  the claim wasnt dealt 
with by UKI so shes unhappy about any costs  being noted against  her record and any 
negative impact or affect this has on her costs.  
UKI do keep a record of all costs for internal purposes and provide information to external  
databases too so other  insurers can check individual customer  details in relation to claims 
costs. Its accepted within the insurance  industry that these records need  to be correct  and 
are used to detect fraud.
Its accepted in this complaint that Ms J wasnt paid anything by UKI. But I accept that UKI 
wouldve had costs  when  it sent out its suppliers to check the claim situation. The external 
database shows the correct amount but also that Ms J didnt get paid out. I accept thats 
reasonable.
I understand why UKI left the claim open although  I think there could potentially have been 
better communication  with Ms J about  this. In the circumstances leaving the claim open was 
a fair thing to do in case Ms J did decide to go ahead with the claim. Once she confirmed 
that she didnt  want to claim it was closed.  I think here it wouldve been  a good idea to 
confirm what the exact claim  costs  record would be.
Ref: DRN75809122UKI said it wouldnt consider the withdrawn claim at renewal in terms of the premium it would 
charge. But I accept it cant speak for other  insurers.  When  Ms J applied for a policy  
elsewhere the other insurer has its own criteria  and would charge premiums  as it sees  fit. As 
the other insurer did appear  to charge more due to the records I can understand  how 
frustrating this was for Ms J. But once the claims  record was closed the new insurer  updated 
her no claims  discount and lowered the premium. So I dont think it would be fair to penalise 
UKI for the actions taken  by another insurer. It can only confirm  its own approach to claims 
records and it did that fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580912