K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that Halifax  Share Dealing Limited  has incorrectly retained  a withholding tax 
when he sold his US shares. 
background
Mr Q held some US based  shares which he sold in September  2018.  When the sale was 
completed Halifax retained a 30% withholding tax. Mr Q said the tax didnt apply to him and 
that Halifax hadnt told him that they were retaining  30% withholding tax or given him any 
breakdown of this. He claimed Halifax should give him an apology  and credit all his money  
back. 
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said its terms explained  that in order  for 
US investments to be held, Mr Q was required to complete  a W-8BEN form. This is a form 
which US Internal  Revenue Services (IRS) requires foreign holders of US stocks  to complete 
so that any money  received from stocks can be received without tax deductions or reduced 
deductions. Halifax say Mr Q hadnt  completed a W-8BEN form so they were  required to 
retain the 30% withholding tax in order to take into account any tax liabilities. They  say they 
informed Mr Q that tax would apply in a letter to him issued three days after the shares  were  
sold. Halifax also added that Mr Q would  have been  informed when he signed up to the 
account that this may happen  and that it was also detailed in the terms and conditions  of the 
account. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Qs complaint. He thought  Mr Q should have been 
aware that the W-8BEN  form needed to be completed in order  to prevent  the 30% 
withholding tax  he considered Mr Q had been  given notice of this when signing up to the 
account. He didnt think Halifax had done  anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr Q didnt agree. He said the W-8BEN  form had been completed and returned to Halifax 
within 60 days of the sale of the shares and so all withholding tax should now be returned to 
him. 
An agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr Q will be disappointed  in my 
decision but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
When Mr Q signed up to this account, he was given  specific information about  the tax and 
the W-8BEN  form. I have  seen screenshots of the information Mr Q would have seen when 
signing up to the account. The screen specifically says:- 
Before your trade U.S. shares  you must  agree to:
1.Complete a W-8BEN form if you are not U.S. person
2.Complete a Nasdaq Subscriber Agreement
This section  says that the form is needed  for tax purposes and explains what  rate of tax will 
apply. It tells the subscriber that a W-8BEN form is needed in order to benefit from the 
reduced tax rate of 15%. It also gives the subscriber a link for further  information  on What is 
Ref: DRN78550232Withholding Tax. Mr Q would have had to read this and then clicked to say he accepted  the 
terms written in order to complete subscription to the account. Mr Q says he didnt know 
about the W-8BEN form but this section  specifically talks about  withholding tax. The 
information Ive seen makes it clear  that customers who held or wanted to hold US stocks 
would have to fill in a W-8BEN form. 
I have also seen screenshots  of the online sale and what notifications were  visible  on the 
webpage at this time. A notification  specifically  warning that withholding tax under US tax 
regulations may apply  was clearly visible on the webpage - this was prior to the trade  being  
completed. The webpage also made it clear with a further specific warning once the trade 
had completed which  said that the proceeds had been subject to withholding tax under US 
regulations. It advised Mr Q to obtain tax advice  and that Halifax couldnt  assist in this as 
they are not tax advisors.  So I think its reasonable to say that Mr Q would have seen this 
information and should have been  aware  he needed  to fill in the form. I am satisfied that 
Mr Q should have known  that the withholding tax may apply.
In addition to this, the requirement to complete relevant tax forms and the results of not 
doing so are clearly  noted in the terms and conditions of agreement  with Halifax. Section 
5.13 warns about higher rate withholding tax. Section  17.13  also explains that Halifax will 
not be liable  for any loss you may suffer as a result of our complying with legislation  or 
agreements with tax authorities Given that Mr Q would have confirmed he had read the 
terms and conditions and the webpage  warnings both before  and after the trade  where 
available, I am satisfied that he did receive enough  information to know  he needed to 
complete the W-8BEN form. So based on everything  Ive seen, Im unable to say that Halifax 
did anything wrong  in retaining  the 30% withholding tax.
Mr Q said he submitted  the W-8BEN  form in September  2018  after the shares were sold. He 
said this form was completed within 60 days of the trade being completed so Halifax should 
return the withholding tax to him. Mr Q has provided  a US court  case which  he says confirms  
Halifax should refund  to him the entire  amount set aside for tax.  But this relates  to US tax 
law which Im not able to comment on. 
Having considered Mr Qs comments, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask Halifax to compensate him. I say this because  Im satisfied Halifax  notified  Mr Q in 
advance that he needed to submit  the W-8REN form and clearly explained to him why it was 
required. Im satisfied the terms  of the account specify that this might be required  when  
holding US stock, and he was warned  again prior to the sale.  Mr Q didnt act on any of this 
information and Halifax, on the sale of the shares, had a legal obligation to apply  the relevant 
rate of withholding tax. Given everything Ive said, Im satisfied Halifax hasnt treated Mr Q 
unfairly and didnt do anything wrong.  
If Mr Q considers he has now paid more tax than he should  have,  I can only suggest  that he 
obtain more information from the relevant tax authority or from a tax adviser.
my final decision
I will not be upholding this complaint against  Halifax Share Dealing Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN78550233Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7855023