K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  (trading as Argos Card 
Services Argos)  did not provide her with the service it should have when she raised  issues  
about items on her account.
background 
Miss M raised  a complaint  about items on her account. This was investigated and the 
recommended settlement  was accepted. However  Miss M then raised further  issues about 
the same  complaint, in particular about  the service she received through this process.
Miss M says that it took over a year for the issue to be resolved and she was given incorrect 
information through this process. She says that she had to gather evidence  to support her 
case which caused her stress and inconvenience and that she had to make  several  phone  
calls. She says this has had an impact on her particularly due to her poor health and that the 
issues have made her feel like she can no longer use Argos  services as she doesnt trust it.
Our investigator initially set up a second  complaint to deal with the points Miss M had raised. 
Argos said that as a settlement had already been accepted  by Miss M it did not agree that 
the second complaint should  be considered.
Our investigator did not think that Argos had provided Miss M with the service  it should have 
done. Given the time the complaint had been  ongoing and the incorrect  information Miss M 
had been provided our investigator recommended that Argos pay her £250 compensation. 
Argos did not accept  our investigators view. It said that Miss M raised her complaint  on 
9 January 2018 and it provided a final response letter  on 7 February. The complaint was 
then referred by Miss M to this service  and Argos provided the agreed settlement in April 
2018. It said it had handled Miss Ms complaint within the timescales and based on the 
evidence it had been provided.
On further investigation it was decided  that the issues Miss M had raised related to the first 
complaint and so the first complaint was reopened and the points raised considered.
Miss M asked why the compensation was £250 rather than £500 as she had requested.
My decision  is on Miss Ms initial complaint and includes the points raised after a settlement 
was agreed. I have  looked into the complaint  as a whole considering how fair the settlement 
offer was and whether the additional  points raised mean that further compensation should be 
provided.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss Ms original complaint was investigated and a second complaint didnt need  to be 
set up. Instead  it was reasonable  that the original complaint was reopened so the issues  
raised after the settlement could be considered;
Ref: DRN76607202Miss Ms original complaint was about duplicate items being charged to her account and 
the information she received about this. A settlement  was agreed which I found 
reasonable;
Miss M raised  further issues about the service she had received and the process of 
complaint handling.  Issues  relating specifically to complaint handling fall outside  of our 
jurisdiction so I couldnt consider this but I considered the service issues  raised; 
overall the settlement provided in response  to the original complaint was fair and the 
service issues  raised had been  considered  as part of that complaint.
Miss M did not accept  my provisional decision. No further evidence  was provided by either  
party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I think that Argos  did do something wrong in regard to 
the duplicate items.  But I think  the settlement accepted in response to the original complaint 
was fair and covered the service issues Miss M has raised.
No further evidence was provided in response  to my provisional decision and so my decision 
has not changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to the issues Miss M raised about 
the duplicate items.
However, as Home Retail Group Card Services Limited has already removed the £324.95 
relating to the additional items along  with associated  interest and has said that Miss Ms 
credit file will be amended, I find this is sufficient to settle this complaint. I do not find that 
Home Retail  Group Card Services Limited is required to do anything further based on the 
additional issues Miss M raised  following the agreed  settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7660720