K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that Allianz  Insurance Plc has unfairly  noted  her claim as an open 
fault claim, when her car was hit during the night when it was parked outside her home.  This 
meant her premium amount increased  substantially.
background
Miss B on discovering her car was damaged in June 2015  used an accident management 
company to handle  her claim rather than going through Allianz. 
But by February 2016,  the accident management  company said the other drivers insurer 
wouldnt accept its insured was at fault so the matter was passed  back  to Allianz. 
Allianz investigated it and instructed its solicitors. The solicitors  discovered that the damage  
on the other drivers vehicle and the damage didnt match. So they thought  the case couldnt  
be won at court and the best outcome would be a 50/50 split.
Miss B didnt agree and was very upset her premium had increased too, given this accident 
wasnt at all her fault. So she brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think  Allianz 
had done anything wrong. Miss B didnt  agree so her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, I so appreciate how frustrating and disappointing my decision will be for Miss B. 
However given the facts  of the matter  Allianz hasnt done anything wrong in deciding not to 
take the case to court  and so then recommending a 50/50 split and secondly consequently 
increasing Miss Bs premium.
The engineering evidence from the other drivers insurer shows an inconsistency  with the 
damage on his vehicle and the damage on Miss Bs car. This means  according  to Allianzs 
solicitors that its unlikely a court will find in Miss Bs favour. I dont consider that is 
unreasonable advice. Insurers like Allianz here will only take matters to court if theres a 
decent chance of being successful. So given their legal advice is that there isnt a decent 
chance of being successful, I dont  consider there  is anything that Allianz  has done wrong in 
relying on that.
As the adjudicator explained,  theres a clause in Miss Bs policy,  which is usually in every 
motor policy, which allows Allianz  take over and settle any claim. That means  its only for 
Allianz to make that decision, since its only Allianz thats at risk of the court costs should the 
court case  be unsuccessful. And in taking  out this policy, Miss B has in effect  agreed  to this. 
Consequently, since Miss B would never  be at risk for the court  costs  in an unsuccessful 
claim, and Allianz  would have been, I dont  consider  it was unreasonable  for Allianz to rely 
on its legal  advice not to take the matter  to court.
However as Allianz  ultimately paid for the damage  to Miss Bs car, its now out of pocket as it 
cant recover all of  those costs from the other drivers insurers. It can recover  50% of it 
Ref: DRN70711152under the proposal of a 50/50 spilt. And that should mean Miss B recovers 50% of her 
excess too, depending on the precise  details of the 50/50 split. But Allianz  still remains out of 
pocket for the other 50%.
This means  it must  record Miss Bs claim on her record as being  a fault  claim.  This doesnt 
mean that Miss B was at fault for causing  this accident, as she cant have been  given  it 
occurred at night  when she was asleep. It simply means that Allianz  was unable to recover 
all of its costs  in repairing  her car. Further as I understand the settlement isnt yet agreed 
that means presently Miss B has an open claim on her record, which  increases  her 
premium in the same way in any event.
However, that does  mean that Miss Bs premium  increases because  of this. And I dont 
consider that to be unreasonable, given Allianz wasnt  able, on the facts  of this case,  to 
recover all of its outlay.
So whilst its clear the accident couldnt  have  been  Miss Bs fault, nevertheless as Allianz 
can recover all of its outlay, it remains a fault claim on Miss Bs record. The same  thing 
would have happened if no one saw the vehicle, which hit Miss Bs car, as she still would 
have made  a claim to repair the damage to her car and Allianz  would not have been able to 
recover its costs in those  circumstances either.
Allianz appropriately obtained  legal  advice and it hasnt done anything  wrong  in relying  on 
that legal  advice.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2019
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7071115