K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains on behalf of herself  and the late Mr J, that Airdrie Savings Bank mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI). The PPI policy  covered the late Mr J only. 
background
This complaint is about two single premium  PPI policies taken out in 1988.  This type of 
policys has a one-off upfront premium that is paid in advance by being added to the loan (a 
single premium) where it attracts  interest over the term of the loan. Both were taken at the 
same time as their respective loans.  My understanding  is that the second loan taken in 1988,  
was used to repay the initial loan  so they are linked. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Airdrie disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
To be clear, in this decision I have  only considered  loans *4005 and loans *4405 from 1988.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Airdries  comments, but I have  still decided to uphold  this complaint.
Both parties  agree that Airdrie didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for him. But it did have to provide clear information  about the 
policy, including about any exclusions  and limitations, so Mr J could make  an informed 
choice about whether  the PPI was right for him 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances, I dont think its likely  that Airdrie  did provide 
enough clear information  to Mr J. 
I say this because  the PPI policy  excluded claims arising from pre-existing medical 
conditions that Mr J should reasonably have known about on the start date of the policy, or 
for which he had received  treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date of 
the policy and which returns within 12 months of the start date of the policy. 
Mr J was diagnosed  with a long-term  illness in 1973, so a number  of years before this policy  
started, and it is likely to have fallen foul of this exclusion. Mrs J has informed us that Mr J 
was taking regular  medication from 1973  onwards. He took this medication usually two to 
three times a day depending on his health on any given day. Shes further  advised  that Mr J 
attended clinics every few months  for his illness to be monitored.  
So, it appears his condition required significant monitoring and medication prior to the sale of 
the policy. Mrs Js testimony  regarding Mr Js illness has generally been consistent, and Im 
satisfied thats  its reliable evidence. 
Ref: DRN72631282Because of the nature of the condition, I think Mr J would have thought thered be quite a 
good chance hed want to claim as a result of it. Mrs J has said that late Mr J did eventually 
have to leave  work  because  of it, although this was some years after the sale.  
I think its unlikely Airdrie  drew this exclusion clause to Mr Js attention, and I dont think  hed 
have taken the PPI if it had. So, Mrs J and Mr J incurred costs  that they otherwise have 
avoided.
Putting things  right
Mrs J and Mr J borrowed  extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loans  were  bigger than they 
shouldve been.  They paid more than they shouldve each  month during the initial  loan (and 
subsequent loan). So Mrs J needs  to be put in the financial position shed be in now if she 
and Mr J hadnt taken  out PPI and get back the extra they paid.
So Airdrie  should:
Work  out and pay Mrs J the difference between what  they paid each month on the 
loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.
Work  out and pay Mrs J the difference between what  they paid on the next loan and 
what they wouldve  paid without PPI. 
Add simple interest to the extra amounts Mrs J and Mr J paid from when they paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on. 
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Airdrie  can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  owed to Mrs J. It can also deduct  any amounts its 
already paid regarding commission and profit share.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest.  Airdrie  must give 
Mrs J a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs J and the late Mr Js complaint.
I require Airdrie Savings  Bank to pay Mrs J (on behalf of the late Mr J) compensation in 
accordance with the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J (on behalf of 
herself and the late Mr J) to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7263128