K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M dispute the fees charged by Mortgage  Compare  Limited. Mr M has handled 
the complaint  throughout. Hed like all or some  of the fees refunded, together with costs  
related to mortgage applications that were declined by the lenders.
background
Mr and Mrs M contacted MCL  about getting  a mortgage. Mr M says MCL failed to obtain a 
mortgage for them. He successfully  applied  directly to a high street  lender.
Mr M says he was harassed by MCL about  the fees, and it continued to contact him after 
hed paid their fees. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said MCLs 
terms, which Mr and Mrs M agreed  to, required that they pay the fees.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree, and so the complaint was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M wanted a mortgage so they could move house. MCLs notes say theyd 
approached their current lender which couldnt help.  MCLs notes say it met with Mr and 
Mrs M a number  of times between February  2017  and September  2018. 
MCL sent a mortgage illustration to Mr M in February 2017,  together with its initial disclosure 
document, client agreement and fee authority form. Mr and Mrs Ms house was on the 
market but didnt sell at this time.
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs M had a buyer for their house.  They  signed  MCLs client  
agreement to appoint  MCL to source  a mortgage. The relevant parts  of the agreement  say, 
in summary:
an intermediary (broker) fee is due when the case is submitted to the lender.  The fee is 
made up of the broker fee and the procuration fee. While the procuration  fee is usually 
paid by the lender, if the mortgage doesnt  go ahead  Mr and Mrs M are liable  to pay it.
the broker fee for administration  work  and procuration fee become payable if the 
application is cancelled by Mr and Mrs M or due to them not proving correct  information.
MCL provided a document Important Information about our mortgage services which set 
out the fees. The relevant  parts say, in summary:
the brokerage  fee is either a fixed fee or an hourly rate, depending on complexity. The 
fee is due when Mr and Mrs M agree that MCL should submit an application  to a lender.
Ref: DRN76366032if the lender  agrees to pay MCL a fee (the procuration fee) this is added to the brokerage  
fee. This is payable  by Mr and Mrs M if the case is cancelled.
MCL reserves the right to invoice at an hourly  rate for work  carried out if the application  
doesnt proceed and to charge for additional services.
MCL looked for a lender that would  accept Mr and Mrs Ms credit profile and offer a 
mortgage that met their needs. Applications were  made which were not successful. Mr and 
Mrs M incurred costs  (such as legal fees) related to this.
In October  2018 MCL provided  a mortgage  illustration from another lender. MCL suggested 
Mr and Mrs M apply  for the mortgage and look to move to a lender with a better  interest rate 
after six months, when  their credit profile  had improved. The mortgage illustration set out a 
brokers fee of £1,000  for arranging the mortgage. It also said the lender would pay MCL a 
fee of £1,500. Mr M asked MCL to proceed with the application. 
The application didnt  proceed.  Mr M says he was in hospital and unable to return  the 
required documents.
In early November 2018 Mr M told MCL that hed applied to his current lender. He said hed 
honour MCLs charges.  When Mr M confirmed hed been offered a mortgage by his current 
lender, MCL issued  its invoice and asked for immediate payment. 
The invoice required payment of a fee of £1,000 for arranging  the mortgage,  £490 
procuration fee and a £195  re-submission fee. Mr and Mrs M had already paid £400, so MCL 
asked for payment of £1,285.
Matters became acrimonious. MCL said if Mr M didnt  confirm when the fees would be paid it 
would pursue the matter in court. The invoice was paid in December 2018, when Mr and 
Mrs M had sold their house.
what fees are now disputed?
In response to our investigators view, Mr M said he didnt have a problem with paying the 
£1,000 brokers  fee, as MCL had done  work  for them. He also said he was happy to pay the 
£195 resubmission fee, even though this was shown  on the tariff as £150. He disputes the 
£490 procuration  fee, which he says wasnt in any documents.  
I think the procuration  fee was set out in the client agreement and Important  Information  
about our mortgage  services document. This is the fee paid by the lender to MCL if the 
mortgage completes.  However, the terms say if the case  didnt complete the fee was 
payable by Mr and Mrs M. The amount due depended  on what was offered by the lender. 
There were several mortgage illustrations  issued to Mr and Mrs M. The fees payable  by the 
lenders to MCL vary from £412, to £482  and to £1,500. 
While I think MCL was entitled to charge a procuration fee, it wasnt clear why it invoiced 
£490. MCL wasnt able to explain  this, but did point out that it appeared to have  
undercharged given  the lenders fee in the last mortgage illustration was £1,500.  Matters  
would have been clearer if the amount invoiced matched the amount in the mortgage  
illustration. But as MCL could have invoiced a larger amount, I dont think  it was unfair  to 
invoice £490.  
Ref: DRN76366033is it fair to require MCL to refund any fees?
I think its fair for MCL to be paid for the work  it undertook for Mr and Mrs M. MCL met with 
Mr and Mrs M a number  of times  and approached  several  lenders.  I think  it was reasonable 
for MCL to ask Mr and Mrs M to pay the balance of the fees due, including  the procuration 
fee, when they said theyd  found a mortgage  elsewhere. Mr and Mrs M agreed to pay MCLs 
fees when they agreed to its terms of business.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require MCL to refund any fees. 
Mr and Mrs M incurred  costs (such as legal fees) related  to mortgage applications that didnt  
complete. Mr M would like these refunded; he hasnt said whether hes taken  any steps such 
as contacting the lender  or the solicitors involved.  These were costs  incurred in the course  of 
the mortgage applications and paid to third parties. I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
require MCL  to make any payments or take any steps in relation to this.
contact since December  2018
From what  Ive seen, contact between MCL and Mr M since December 2018 relates to 
online comments made by Mr M, and which MCL objects  to. This isnt something  I can look 
into under  our rules. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7636603