K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs M applied for a credit card in a Barclays branch in 1999. And I can see that she ticked a 
box on the application form she signed  indicating that she wanted PPI. The option to decline 
it was set out with equal prominence. Mrs M says that she was given the impression  that she 
had to take the cover to get her card application  approved. But I have to bear in mind that 
this sale took place a long time ago and memories tend to fade over such  timescales. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair for me to conclude that the Barclays  representative  she spoke 
to at the time wrongly  misled her in this way, based  solely on what Mrs M thinks  she was told 
then. On balance,  I think  its more likely that she knew  that the PPI was optional and actively  
decided to take it. But I can understand why she might not remember  this now.
Barclays says that the PPI would have been recommended  to Mrs M. And Ive taken this to 
be the case because  this means it had to ensure that it was suitable for her. Theres  no 
record of what was said to her, so I cant be sure how Barclays did this. But from what  I 
know of her circumstances then, I cant see any reason why the policy  wouldnt have been 
suitable. I say this because:
Mrs M appears  to have been eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs M say she didnt  need the cover because she was entitled to sick pay and 
redundancy benefits from her employer. But this policy would have paid out in addition to 
these. It would have  paid off ten percent of the outstanding balance on her card for up to 
twelve months if she couldnt work because of an accident,  sickness  or unemployment. 
This is longer than Mrs Ms other  means were likely  to have lasted. So I still think she 
would have valued the extra protection which the policy gave  her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs M. And as the PPI premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have  cancelled the policy if it no longer  met her needs.
Barclays also needed to give Mrs M enough information about the PPI policy  for her to 
decide if she wanted it. I think its likely that the information it gave her could have  been  
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for her, I dont think that better information would  have  changed  her mind about taking it. I 
think shed still have  thought that the policy gave her useful benefits at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mrs M has lost out by any think that Barclays  may have  done  wrong  
when it sold her this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN76716872But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7671687