K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited have handled his claim under  his 
car insurance policy badly  with poor communication and delays. He also complains that the 
accident was recorded as fault resulting in an increased premium.
Background
Mr W parked his car overnight in a council carpark. Strong winds caused a gate to blow 
against his car resulting in damage  to the bodywork.
Mr W opened a claim  with Admiral that day. Mr Ws car was repaired and the costs of this 
were paid by Admiral, however the claim  remained  open for more  than a year,  as Admiral 
were attempting to recover  their losses from the council. 
As a result of the claim remaining open,  it was recorded as a fault  incident, impacting  on 
Mr Ws no claims bonus (NCB) and resulting  in an insurance renewal premium increase.
Mr W complained  to Admiral on several points,  including how the incident  was unfairly 
recorded as a fault, and subsequently  how his NCB was affected. He also complained 
about poor communication from Admiral  throughout the claim.
Whilst the complaint  was being looked at by Admiral, they reinstated his NCB  and 
recalculated his premium.  but as Mr W had protected it when he took out the policy, there 
was no difference  in his premium as a result. 
In their response to this complaint,  Admiral agreed  that there had been a lack of 
communication on their part on a number of occasions, with Mr W not being updated often  
enough about the progress of the claim  and the reason  for any delays. Mr W had made a 
total of three complaints during the course  of the claim. In settlement Admiral had offered 
£150 in compensation for each complaint,  including  this one, but denied  being unfair in 
marking the claim as fault whilst  it was being processed and the effect  this had on his NCB 
and renewal premium.
Mr W was not happy and brought his complaint to us.
The investigator thought that Admiral had acted  fairly in treating the claim as fault whilst  it 
was open, with the subsequent effect  on the NCB. He noted  that Admiral  had already 
reinstated his NCB and had undertaken to recalculate his premium as soon as the claim had 
been closed. 
In relation to the compensation offered by Admiral to Mr W for this complaint,  the investigator 
thought this should be increased to £250,  as this would be a fairer  recognition  of the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W by the delays and lack of communication.
Mr W accepted this view, however Admiral did not. They said that they had already paid 
Mr W a total of £450 over the course  of three  different complaints (including this one),  all of 
which included an element of perceived lateness  and lack of communication, so thought  the 
level of compensation  offered was high enough already.
The investigator thought that as he had only been  asked  to investigate one complaint, it 
would be unfair  of him to take into account  the compensation Admiral  have  already  paid to 
Ref: DRN78621532Mr W in relation to other complaints, despite them being very similar. He thought  £250 was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint alone.
Admiral did not accept this, so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint stems from an insurance claim in January 2018. Mr W has made  several 
complaints to Admiral  during the course  of his claim,  about  the way the claim has been 
handled, so for clarity, this decision relates  solely to the issues  Admiral addressed in their 
final response letter dated 11 March 2019.
There were a number of complaint points raised by Mr W. Some  refer to the actions of 
Admiral Law, who provided  the motor  legal protection service. This product is not 
underwritten (provided) by Admiral Insurance Company Limited,  it is underwritten  by another 
insurance company.  This means I cant look at Mr Ws concerns about any part of the 
service provided by Admiral Law as part of this complaint.
Part of Mr Ws complaint relates to Admirals marking of his claim as fault whilst it was 
open, with the subsequent effect on Mr Ws NCB and insurance renewal premium.  This 
matter has been  addressed  by the investigator, who said he thought  it was a fair and 
reasonable thing to do. Both Mr W and Admiral  accept this view,  so I wont comment on it 
further, other  than to say that during the complaint process, Admiral  gave an undertaking to 
recalculate Mr Ws insurance  premium when his NCB was allowed, and again when the 
claim had been  closed. This was done and Admiral have told me that Mr Ws NCB was 
unaffected by his claim as he had protected it when he took out the policy   in other  words,  it 
hadnt changed as a result of the claim.  I have also asked Admiral if Mr Ws renewal 
premium was affected in 2018 as a result  of the claim being outstanding and they have said 
it was not, as his NCB had already been  shown  as allowed.  I dont  think  Mr W has been 
disadvantaged in these circumstances so wont be requiring Admiral  to do anything more.
Mr Ws claim with Admiral was closed  in September 2019 after the council  admitted  liability  
and settled. Mr W did not renew with Admiral  in 2019, so if he wishes to approach his current  
insurer to see if his insurance premium should  be reduced as a result of the claim  
subsequently being closed, that is a matter for him.
Admiral have acknowledged in their final response,  that there were times when they did not 
communicate well enough, both with Mr W, and on his behalf  with the other parties.  They 
have recognised that this would have caused  Mr W some frustration and inconvenience and 
not chasing the council  and Admiral Law enough may have delayed  the settlement process 
unnecessarily. I need to decide what level of compensation is due to properly reflect these  
issues.
Having assessed  the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that £250 is a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation for the things  Admiral admitted they got wrong  in their final 
response letter of 11 March 2019.  I will explain why.
There were considerable  delays in processing  the claim. I think it would be unfair for me to 
hold Admiral responsible  for them all. But Admiral failed to chase up the council or Admiral  
Ref: DRN78621533Law for about four months, and then again for a further four months, and Admiral have 
acknowledged these  two periods of no contact. 
They also agree they failed to keep Mr W updated and informed sufficiently and on 
occasions failed  to acknowledge his emails.  I can see from the file and from Mr Ws emails  
that he became  more  and more frustrated and distressed, and even had to resort to 
contacting his MP to see if they could help him progress the matter.  He felt he was being 
passed from department to department,  and that nobody was taking responsibility for his 
claim. I understand  that there were different departments involved, and even different 
companies, which causes  difficulties in managing customers with multiple enquiries, but 
Admiral were responsible  for handling  the claim and his complaint and I think  they should  
have managed his needs  better. So, I do think the distress and inconvenience Admiral have 
caused Mr W was more  than they have acknowledged.
As a result of the above I think  Admiral should  pay Mr W a total of £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the things they have admitted they got wrong  in 
their final response letter  of 11 March 2019.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W £100 in 
addition to the £150 they have already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7862153