K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy with National Westminster  Bank  Plcs (NatWest) decision to not refund 
transactions she says she didnt  make or authorise. Shes also unhappy with the banks 
decision to close her account. 
Miss F further  complains  that theres  a balance from the closed account  including  the 
disputed transactions   which she doesnt  owe. The bank has registered a default against 
her as this balance has gone  unpaid.
background
Miss F noticed a transaction  of £60 she didnt recognise when  checking  her statements. It 
was an emergency  cash transaction on 3 June 2017. She contacted  the bank to report the 
transaction as fraudulent. NatWest looked into it and refunded Miss F.
A few of months later Miss F noticed similar  transactions and reported them to the bank as 
being fraudulent.  They  were all emergency cash transactions, made at cash  machines in 
London, for £60. They  took place on 8 July, 30 July, 25 August, 11 October and 
30 November 2017.
Miss F told the bank  shed  not disclosed any personal, account or security details to anyone  
and that no one had access to either her phone  or laptop. She also told the bank that shed 
not visited London at the time of and of the transactions.
The bank investigated but this time declined Miss Fs claim; it held her responsible for all of 
the transactions.
NatWest said it thought Miss F must  have  carried out the transactions herself  or given  over 
details to someone else in order to enable  them to carry  them  out. It pointed out that, in 
order to carry out an emergency cash transaction, someone would  have to contact the bank 
and disclose a lot of personal and account  information, including security details. It couldnt 
see how someone could  have obtained this information without Miss Fs consent.
NatWest decided to close Miss Fs account  following the fraud claim. It gave her 60 days 
notice of the closure. The account remained active until it closed.  The balance on the 
account went from being £401.05 overdrawn to £798.98 overdrawn from the time the notice 
to close was issued  on 1 November 2017 to the point at which  the account actually closed. 
The increase  in the overdrawn position came almost  entirely  from Miss Fs continued usage 
of the account.
Miss F complained to NatWest about its answer to the fraud claim and also its actions in 
closing and defaulting her account. But NatWests position remained unchanged  and so 
Miss F brought her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened and thought NatWest had acted 
fairly. He thought  the decision to hold Miss F responsible  for the spending on her account 
was fair and reasonable. He thought it was more  likely than not Miss F had either carried  out 
the transactions herself or had consented  to someone else doing so. He couldnt see how a 
third party might have obtained sufficient information about Miss F and her accounts to carry 
out the transactions without her knowing.
Ref: DRN73996612He then concluded that the banks actions had been  fair and reasonable in terms of closing 
the account, defaulting it and holding Miss F responsible for the full outstanding balance. He 
pointed out that a significant portion of the outstanding balance was Miss Fs own, 
undisputed spending. And that the remainder was either the disputed transactions  which 
were not going  to be refunded  or fairly applied interest and charges.
Miss F disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been  passed to 
me for review.
details of how emergency cash works
I believe its sensible here to include some detail on how NatWests  emergency cash  service 
works. Ill not go into great detail, instead picking  up on the key points relevant to this case.
A consumer  that has registered for online and telephone banking can make use of the 
emergency cash service. Its intended to be used  if the consumers card has been lost or 
stolen. 
In order to use the service, the consumer must call their bank and report their card as lost. 
This means  passing  some initial security questions. A new card is then issued in the normal 
way. Once this step is completed the consumer can request emergency cash  which prompts 
further security questions.  If passed, the consumer is given  a code which  can then be 
entered into a cash machine. And so a physical card and associated  PIN arent required.
Miss F has confirmed receiving each of the new cards issued by the bank following the 
emergency cash transactions.
The emergency cash service is different to the banks GetCash service where the app is 
used to generate  a similar code.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
the disputed transactions
NatWest can hold Miss F responsible for transactions if it can be satisfied they were  
authorised by her. Any unauthorised transactions must be refunded. And NatWest must be 
able to evidence  Miss F did authorise the transactions if its to hold her responsible.  Those 
requirements are set out in the Payment  Service Regulations 2009 (those being applicable 
at the time of the transactions).
Im satisfied NatWest has presented enough evidence to be satisfied Miss F did authorise 
the transactions. That doesnt mean NatWest has shown Miss F actually withdrew the 
money herself. And it also doesnt mean it has explicit evidence of Miss F handing over 
details or the emergency cash code. But it doesnt  need to. Instead its presented enough 
evidence to satisfy  me that its more likely than not Miss F did one of those  things. There  
isnt another more likely,  reasonable  explanation for how these transactions otherwise took 
place.
Ref: DRN73996613Im satisfied that for each of the disputed transactions whoever  called  the bank had to give 
over a significant amount of information  in order to obtain the emergency cash  code. That 
included personal  and security information that should only be known to Miss F. And indeed 
shes told us and the bank that such details had never been shared with anyone  else, were  
not written down anywhere and that no one had access to her electronic devices. The 
person that called the bank also needed  to know about activity on the account.  And these 
questions were answered confidently and correctly  each  time. 
And so the question  I have to answer is how an unknown  third party  could have obtained so 
much information without Miss F knowing.  I cant find a reasonable explanation or that, 
considering all of the evidence  thats been  presented. This would likely be enough  to 
conclude that NatWests actions have been  fair and reasonable.  But there are some  other 
factors that have  led to my decision too.
Each time the emergency  cash feature was used  Miss Fs existing card was cancelled. That 
means she unexpectedly received numerous  replacement cards over the period of disputed 
transactions. Miss F acknowledges receiving them. But she doesnt  appear to have ever 
questioned why they were being sent.  She doesnt  contact the bank at all to question it. I find 
that somewhat  strange. I believe its reasonable to suggest  a reasonable person would be 
somewhat alarmed to keep receiving new card they hadnt ordered.
It also appears that the receipt of the cards didnt  prompt Miss F to check  her account. If she 
had it seems as though  she would have seen the £60 leaving her account  each time. But 
some of the transactions go unreported for weeks. 
Miss Fs cards would  have  been deactivated each  time they were reported as lost. Miss F 
wasnt entirely sure about her usage  of the cards at the time of the disputed  transactions. 
She did tell our investigator she noticed they didnt work sometimes.  This again  raises the 
question of why she wouldnt  contact the bank  to find out why her card wasnt working or to 
at least check her balance  to see if anything was wrong.  
If Miss F was mistaken, and she didnt actually try to use one her cards once itd been  
cancelled, Id find that strange. It seems somewhat unlikely that she wouldnt have once  
gone to use a card across  all the occasions  they were being  cancelled. I believe thats borne 
out by the fact she likely  would  have  been without a card for at least  two days   most likely 
more  at a time.  
I can see Miss F has made regular use of her online banking facility.  There  are multiple  log-
ins across the period of the disputed transactions. And so, whilst bearing in mind  what Ive 
said above, it does  appear she was checking her account. This then raises the question of 
how she didnt notice  the disputed transactions sooner.  There are a couple of times  when  Id 
have thought the transactions  would particularly stand out, given their impact  on the account 
balance.
As an example, the transaction on 8 July takes Miss F overdrawn. And so theres a 
significant change  in the position of the account.  But this seems  to go unnoticed.  I find that 
unusual given the online banking activity at the time which shows  log-ins on 8, 9, 11 and 12 
July. The account  didnt come back into a credit  position until 14 July and the account  was 
checked again on that day.
Ref: DRN73996614I can also see the online banking was accessed  each time before  emergency cash was 
requested. The activity takes place as little as two minutes before the emergency cash code 
is used. The longest  period appears to be around 40 minutes.  
The only way this would have been possible, if this online activity was not Miss F, would be if 
someone had complete  access  to her online banking. I dont consider that to be very likely in 
this case, unless it was with Miss Fs permission; with her disclosing her details to a third 
party. I dont believe it was an unknown person acting without Miss F being  aware.  For one 
theres no explanation how such a person would have gained knowledge of all the required 
security information. But it also seems likely to me that, if an unknown fraudster was in 
operation, theyd attempt more than up to six emergency cash  transactions of £60 each over 
a five month period given they had full access to and control of Miss Fs online banking.
I can only conclude, with all of the above  in mind, that Miss F either carried out the 
transactions herself or disclosed  sufficient information to someone she knew so they could 
carry them out with her consent. That might  have been her sharing personal and security 
information. It might have been  through her sharing the emergency  cash codes. I cant  see 
how an unknown third party would  have otherwise been able to carry out the transactions. 
And its difficult to understand how Miss F wouldnt have  been alerted to them sooner.
Miss F has said that she wasnt in and hadnt visited London when the transactions  took 
place. I dont have  much in the way of evidence  either way to confirm that or not. But even if 
I accept Miss F wasnt in London, it doesnt  mean she couldnt have given someone else the 
emergency cash code  or the details needed  to access her account.
the closure of the account
NatWest was entitled to close Miss Fs account. Its terms and conditions allow it to do so 
and I can see it followed those in giving Miss F 60 days  notice. Theres  then little more  for 
me to comment on here. Given it wasnt happy  with the conduct of the account it decided  to 
withdraw all facilities and its done  so fairly and reasonably.
the outstanding balance  and defaulting of the account 
The disputed transactions make  up £300  of the outstanding balance on the account.  They  
arent being refunded and so the associated balance remains due and payable.
The remainder of the balance is largely  from Miss Fs own undisputed spending. And so its 
only fair that she repay that balance. Even had the disputed  transactions be refunded she 
would still have had to repay  this money. I cant see that she made attempts to do so.
There is a comparatively small amount of interest and charges but they appear  to have been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions  and so I can see no reason for them  to be 
refunded.
Miss F didnt repay the balance and I understand it still remains outstanding. I consider it 
then fair and reasonable for NatWest to have  defaulted  the account and continue  pursuing 
the debt. I consider it would have been  fair for NatWest to go through with this even  if 
making exceptions  for the disputed transactions. Thats  because  I cant  see Miss F made 
attempts to settle her undisputed outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN73996615my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7399661