K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Santander  UK plc held onto a loan overpayment  they made that 
wasnt credited to their loan account.
background
Mr and Mrs O say that they took out a loan in 2004  and shortly  afterwards  made an 
overpayment of just under £5,000.  They say Santander held onto that money but didnt apply 
it to the loan account and repaid  just under £2,800  to them  in 2010. Mr and Mrs O say that 
Santander refunded the money but hasnt paid interest on that money despite telling them it 
would. They would  like Santander  to pay that interest as well as pay interest on that interest 
as they were denied  the use of it.
Santander initially agreed to pay Mr and Mrs O £200 compensation for the incorrect  
information it gave  them as it accepts it told them it would pay interest but later changed its 
mind. It says the loan terms  and conditions say that it doesnt accept overpayments  and Mr 
and Mrs O have had over eight years to tell it about this issue.  Santander  has explained that 
some of the overpayment was used to cover missed  loan repayments and that is why the full 
amount wasnt given back.
Mr and Mrs O brought their complaint to us and our adjudicator thought  that Santander had 
acted unfairly by holding on to the money  and should have returned it far sooner. The 
adjudicator recommended  that Santander  calculate the interest  of 8% and pay that amount 
to Mr and Mrs O up until the payment  is made.
Santander has agreed to pay interest on the money for the five years  it kept it and has 
calculated that amount  to be £945.95 after tax. It says it should not pay interest  for the last 
nine years or so as Mr and Mrs O have  had the benefit of that money.
The adjudicator reconsidered her view and thought Santanders offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs O dont accept that view and say they have not had the opportunity to benefit 
from the lost interest  and that Santander should  pay 8% per year they were without it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs O will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that the loan agreement between Santander and Mr and Mrs O didnt allow  for 
overpayments. So I dont think Santander  made a mistake by not applying the payment 
towards the loan.  But I would  have  expected  Santander to have told Mr and Mrs O that and 
discussed the possibility of repaying  that money. I can see that Mr and Mrs O did benefit  
from having paid Santander the money  as it was used to cover  missed payments.
There is no real dispute  here that Santander should pay Mr and Mrs O interest  on the money  
whilst it kept it until 2010. Im satisfied Santander has fairly calculated that amount to be 
£945.95. The key issue is if Santander should  pay interest  on that interest  for the last nine 
Ref: DRN72948262years or so. And having considered that I find that it would be unfair to order Santander to do 
so.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O say that they didnt  have time to raise this issue before but I 
cant fairly hold Santander  responsible for that. I would have expected  Mr and Mrs O to have 
raised the issue before now or brought it to us. I can also see that Santander has also 
agreed to pay Mr and M O £200  compensation and I think overall its acted fairly and 
reasonably in agreeing to pay the interest for the five year period.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Santander UK plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs O £945.95.  Santander  UK plc should  also provide Mr and Mrs O with a 
certificate of the tax deducted from that amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7294826