K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background 
Mr F was given  two loans by MCF in July 2016 and January 2017. He repaid both loans  far 
earlier than the 24 month  terms  that hed agreed. A summary of Mr Fs borrowing from MCF  
is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 30/07/2016 02/11/2016 £ 1,000
2 16/01/2017 22/05/2017 £ 2,000
Mr Fs complaint has been  assessed  by one of our investigators. She didnt think MCF 
should have agreed to give either of the loans to Mr F. So she asked MCF  to pay Mr F some 
compensation.
MCF agreed with our investigators findings in relation to the second loan. But it still didnt 
think it had been  wrong to give the first loan to Mr F. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mr F accepts my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Fs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time MCF  gave  these loans to Mr F required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MCF  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr F undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Ref: DRN73659222In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr F.
MCF has told us about the checks it did before lending  to Mr F. Before each loan it asked 
him for details of his income  and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before 
each loan too. MCF  has also provided  us with recordings of the telephone calls it had with 
Mr F before it agreed each of the loans. 
Mr F was entering into significant commitments with MCF. Both loans were due to be repaid 
over a period  of two years. So I would expect that a responsible lender would want  to get a 
full, and independent, view of a consumers  finances before agreeing the loans. So I dont 
think the checks Ive described above  were sufficient. I think MCF needed to verify the 
information Mr F was providing  about  his income  and expenditure rather  than simply relying 
on what hed said.
But although  I dont  think the checks MCF did before agreeing the loans  were  proportionate 
that in itself doesnt mean Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Id also need to be persuaded 
that better  checks would  have led to a responsible lender declining his loan applications. So 
Ive looked at copies of Mr Fs bank statements from around the time of each loan to get a 
better understanding of the true state  of his finances.
In performing that check I am not suggesting  that this is exactly  what MCF needed to do. 
There are many other  ways of getting an independent view of a consumers finances. But 
given the time that has passed  I think that reviewing bank statements gives me a good  
understanding of what  would  have  been  uncovered by what  I consider to be proportionate 
checks.
At the time he applied for the first loan Mr F told MCF that his normal  monthly income  was 
£1,740, and that his normal monthly expenditure was just over £1,000. So that should have 
left him with sufficient disposable income  each  month to allow him to repay his borrowing. 
But even a cursory  check of Mr Fs credit file shows that what hed declared for his credit 
expenditure was inaccurate. And in the month  before  taking this loan Mr F spent heavily on 
what appear to be online  gambling transactions. In that month hed spent equal to almost his 
entire income on these  transactions.  Based  on what would have been seen from these 
checks I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that Mr F would be able to repay this 
Ref: DRN73659223loan, or indeed any other credit, in a sustainable manner. So I dont think MCF  should  have  
given this loan to Mr F.
I think by the time of the second loan Mr Fs gambling expenditure had started  to become 
more controlled. Although  he was still making transactions of this nature, the amount he 
spent in the preceding month  was much less than at the time of the first loan. But I think 
MCF should have been concerned that Mr F had repaid his first loan well before it was due, 
but then asked to borrow  double the amount just a few weeks  later. And it would have seen 
that his credit expenditure was higher than it had been at the time of loan 1. I think  that, in 
conjunction with the gambling expenditure that it would have still seen, might have 
suggested that Mr Fs finances were still someway  off being on a stable footing.
In summary  I dont think the checks MCF  did before agreeing either of the loans were 
proportionate. And I think that better  checks would  have shown that Mr F couldnt afford to 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. So MCF shouldnt have agreed to lend to Mr F and 
so now needs  to pay him some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think MCF should have agreed  to give either of the loans to Mr F. So for each loan 
MCF should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr F paid on the loans
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest.  MCF must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7365922