K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  service  after he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr P was in an accident which he said was the other drivers fault. Advantage arranged 
repairs to his car. The other driver  denied having  been in an accident. Advantage said it 
couldn't recover its outlay,  which is what it had paid to settle Mr Ps claim, so it recorded the 
claim as a fault incident and didn't  recover Mr Ps excess.
Mr P brought his complaint about that and about Advantages communication with him to us. 
Advantage acknowledged that its communication hadn't been good. And it offered Mr P £100 
compensation for the impact  of that. But it thought it had settled Mr Ps claim reasonably.
Our adjudicator didn't think  Advantage had dealt with Mr P fairly. So he said it should:
Reimburse Mr P for his excess.
Mark the case as non-fault.
Reinstate Mr Ps no claims discount (NCD). 
Pay him a further £250 compensation.
Advantage didn't agree  so the complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it.
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ps policy allows  
Advantage to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Ps consent to 
decide how to settle a claim and it may make  a decision that Mr P doesnt agree with. But Ill 
look to see if its done so reasonably.
In this case Mr P said at the time of the accident he was stationary and waiting to pull out of 
a side-street. Hes explained that the street is usually one way but the exit at the other end 
was blocked by road works so he had to exit the road from the end which would usually be 
entrance only. He said that while he was waiting to turn another  car drove in and as it went 
past him it hit the rear of his car. He said the driver refused to talk to him but he took her 
registration details  and could provide a description  of her.
Advantage asked  the other  drivers insurer to accept  liability.  The other insurer  said that its 
policyholder denied being in the accident.  Some months later Advantage passed the matter  
to its solicitors. Eventually, around  14 months  after the accident, the solicitors dropped the 
case because the other  driver had denied liability and because  the solicitors  felt that the 
damage to Mr Ps car wasnt consistent  with how he said the accident happened.
Ref: DRN71484202Where a third party driver denies having  had any involvement in an incident at all the first 
action I would expect  an insurer  like Advantage to take is to have an independent  engineer 
assess both cars. Thats  to see if theres  damage to the cars and if thats consistent with the 
coming together that one of the drivers has alleged. So thats what  I would have expected  
Advantage to do in this case.  But I haven't seen  any evidence that it did so. Instead, over 
eight months later,  Advantage referred the matter to its solicitors.  It appears that the 
solicitors then did very little to investigate the circumstances of the claim and after a further  
six months dropped  the case because the other  driver had denied  involvement. 
I don't think that was a fair outcome  for Mr P. By that time some  14 months had elapsed 
since the incident and Mr P had had his car repaired by then. So there was no longer any 
real scope to compare the accident  damage  or even to establish if the other car had been 
damaged, as it could  well have also been  repaired by then. 
I accept its possible that if Advantage had sent out an engineer to assess the other  drivers  
car its possible  that could  have shown that the other  car hadn't been  in an accident. But 
because it didn't do that Mr P won't ever know whether that was the case  or not. So I think  
Advantages failure to inspect the other  drivers car has significantly prejudiced his position  
to the point that he can't now prove  that the other drivers car and his were in a collision. And 
without that proof he has no real prospect  of having the claim decided in his favour.  I don't  
think thats fair.
Advantages solicitor  said that she didn't think the damage to Mr Ps car was consistent  with 
the accident as he described it as she said this would have resulted in a front end collision. 
But she hasn't  provided any persuasive rationale  for that. From a lay perspective I can't see 
why any collision would have had to be front end. And it seems  plausible  that one car driving 
past another could clip the rear quarter  of the car, which is what Mr P described.
Also Advantage has said that as Mr P was coming  out the wrong  way from a side-street and 
there was no independent witnesses  or CCTV then it would have provide difficult to say that 
Mr P wasn't at least  partly at fault. But Mr Ps evidence  is that he was stationary when the 
other car hit him. And if an engineers  inspection had proved that the other drivers car had 
hit Mr P, given the driver denied any involvement, that would have called into question the 
truthfulness of her evidence if the matter  had had to go to court.  But as there's now no real 
prospect of this case ever going to court, we can't say what weight a court would give to 
each drivers evidence. And its possible that, when the other  drivers insurer  learned that 
she had in fact been in an accident  which shed previously denied, it would have accepted 
liability on her behalf. So I don't  think its fair, given that Advantage's actions have denied 
Mr P any realistic  opportunity of proving his claim that Advantage should now argue that he 
might have been found to be partly at fault.
Advantage also objected to our adjudicators recommendation that it should reimburse 
Mr Ps excess as it said that this is always payable  on any claim. I agree  that's  the case. And 
the excess is whats known as an uninsured loss, that is its not covered by the policy.  But 
when a claim is decided  as non-fault its usual for the non-fault driver to be able to claim their 
excess back from the other side. But because of Advantages  mistakes  theres  no prospect 
of Mr P being able to do that now. So in the specific circumstances  of this case  I think  its fair 
that Advantage reimburses Mr P with a sum equivalent to his excess.
Ref: DRN71484203I also think its fair that Advantage should change how the incident is recorded on internal 
and external databases from fault to non-fault. It should  also reinstate Mr Ps NCD. And to 
address his distress  and inconvenience arising  from its handling of this matter  pay him 
further compensation of £250.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
reimburse Mr P a sum equivalent to his excess;  
change how the claim is recorded on internal and external databases from fault to 
non-fault/NCD allowed;
reinstate Mr Ps NCD;
pay him a further £250 compensation. It should  pay the compensation within  28 days  
of us telling  it that Mr P has accepted  my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr P a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7148420