K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Well Dunn Limited mis-sold him a motor insurance policy.
background
Well Dunn is a broker, that means it will arrange  policies and may help in their 
administration. But it doesn't actually provide the cover. That will be done by an insurance 
company, which  is an entirely separate business.
Mr R asked Well Dunn to find him a policy and he told Well Dunn about a previous 
conviction. Well Dunn  arranged a policy. Mr O later learned that, as his conviction was spent 
only a couple  of weeks after his policy began, it didn't affect his premium  as the insurer  
decided not to consider it when setting the premium. Mr O said that Well Dunn should have 
told him that at the time. And if it had hed have looked elsewhere  for a policy,  which  he 
believes he could have  found for a cheaper  premium.
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Well Dunn had done  anything 
wrong. Mr O didn't agree so his complaint's  been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Os made  a number of detailed points. But in this decision I will 
focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues following our adjudicators 
assessment.
Mr Os conviction wasn't  spent at the time he applied for his policy. So he needed to tell 
Well Dunn or other potential insurers about it if asked. It might help if I explain that potential 
policyholders are required to take reasonable care to answer  insurers  questions when 
taking out a policy. So, if Mr O was asked if he had any unspent  convictions  then  in order  
to take reasonable care to answer  that - he was required to answer that he did have an 
unspent conviction. I note Mr O doesn't dispute this.
The insurer  that offered Mr O a policy decided not to use his conviction as a rating  factor 
when offering him a premium. But that was its choice and that wasn't something that 
Well Dunn influenced.  And its not necessarily the case that would have been the approach  
of other  insurers. So I don't think it would have been appropriate for Well Dunn to advise 
Mr O that he didn't need to declare his conviction  to other insurers simply because one 
individual insurer had decided  not to rate on it. And I don't think that Well Dunn was under 
any obligation to advise Mr O that the insurer had decided not to rate on his conviction. 
Mr O believes  he paid too much  for his premium because he thinks he could have found a 
cheaper premium from another insurer if he didn't have to declare his conviction. But as I've 
said above he did need to declare his conviction until it was spent. And theres  no guarantee 
that other  insurers would  have  been happy  not to rate on that in the same  way that the 
insurer Well Dunn found did. So there was no guarantee  that Mr O could have  found  another  
insurer that would take the same approach. Also Mr O was under no obligation to accept the 
policy Well Dunn sold to him. And there  was nothing  preventing  him from looking  for another  
Ref: DRN79097882policy elsewhere either before or after he approached Well Dunn. It follows  that I don't think 
Mr Os been put into a worse position by Well Dunns actions. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7909788