K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  
loaned him an unaffordable Safety Net facility in 2017.
background
Mr K approached SNC  for a Safety Net facility in 2017. This was a running credit account  
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once  their account balance  fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. 
Mr K was initially  given a facility with a £430  credit  limit in February 2017. His limit was 
increased to £580  in March 2017 before once again being increased  to £730 in April 2017, 
before being increased to £820 in May 2017. Mr Ks credit limit was increased  for a final time 
to £840 in August 2017.    
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ks complaint. He thought it wasnt  unfair for SNC to 
have initially  given Mr K his Safety Net facility  and the first credit limit increase. But he 
thought it was unfair for SNC to have increased  Mr Ks credit  limit for second time in April 
2017 and continue lending to him. SNC disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im partially  upholding   
Mr Ks complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
the relevant regulations in place  at the time Mr K was given his Safety Net facility 
SNC gave  Mr K his Safety Net facility when it was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).  And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook of rules  and 
guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer borrowing of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Ks Safety Net facility) , to make payments within a reasonable 
period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
Ref: DRN73406572The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent and when what was being  borrowed was due to be 
repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ks Safety Net facility and each  time it increased  his credit. As explained,    
Mr K was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So overall I think  that this means  the 
checks SNC carried out had to provide  enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr K 
would be able to both service and then repay  his facility within a reasonable period of time.
why I dont think that it was unfair for SNC  to have  provided the initial facility to Mr K.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided and weighed this against what Ive seen 
on Mr Ks actual bank statements, while I dont entirely agree with all of the methodology 
used by SNC  for example, classifying all funds credited into Mr Ks account  as income, I 
do think SNCs checks were proportionate taking all the circumstances into account.
As explained, Mr K wasnt given  a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a 
reasonable period of time.  CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period of time is. So I 
think its important to note that a reasonable period  of time will always be dependent  on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
In this case, I think Mr Ks bank  statements  in the period leading  up to his facility being  
approved  show that he did have enough disposable income  to both service and repay a 
facility of £430 within a reasonable period of time. And I think  that this was also the case  
when Mr Ks credit limit was increased  to £580 in March 2017.
Ref: DRN73406573why I think it was unfair for SNC  to increase  the credit limit on Mr Ks facility from April 2017  
onwards
SNC increased Mr Ks credit limit to £730 in April 2017, £820 in May 2017 and £840 in May 
2017. In my view, these  were significant  increases and SNC needed to ensure Mr K could 
sustainably repay  any further amounts dawn down.  I dont think that SNC  did that here and I 
think that it was unfair for it to have  granted these increases in the circumstances it did. 
I say this because  I dont enough think it is enough for a lender to simply obtain information.  
A lender also has to react to what it is seeing  in a proportionate manner. In this case, SNC 
wouldve seen that Mr K was drawing  down the maximum amount he could each time it took 
a payment from him. This ought to have alerted SNC to the fact that Mr K may have been 
borrowing to cover the hole, in his finances,  left by making the payments to his facility.  Its 
also clear that by this stage Mr Ks finances  were  beginning  to show  strain  as he was paying 
unplanned overdraft  fees due to exceeding his overdraft limit.  
Ive seen what SNC has said about  Mr K not being required to make  the full payment on the 
facility and that looking at what was going  in to Mr Ks account compared  to what  was going 
account suggested that he could  make the payments within a reasonable period of time. 
I accept that this may have been  the case. But as I've already explained SNC was 
monitoring Mr Ks current  account and it needed  to react to what it was seeing.  And it 
needed to ensure that any borrowing could be sustainably repaid. 
SNC ought to have  realised that the way Mr K was utilising the facility  together with his 
inability to stay within his overdraft limit was likely  to impact his ability  to sustainably maintain 
the payments  to a facility with an increased limit. I think that SNC ought  to have realised that 
these factors meant that Mr K was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his facility. And, in 
these circumstances,  I think  that it was unfair for SNC to increase Mr Ks credit limit in April 
2017 and continue lending to him from this point onwards. As this is the case, Im partially  
upholding Mr Ks complaint.
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr K, SNC  should:
refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ks Safety Net facility from the second 
credit limit increase  in April 2017 ; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement  ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit  file as a result of borrowing 
provided from April 2017 onwards.
I understand that Mr K has an outstanding balance remaining on his Safety Net facility.  If 
after having  removed all the interest  and charges  applied from the outset, an outstanding 
balance remains, SNC can deduct this from the amount it now needs to pay Mr K. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give    
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN73406574my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ks complaint. Indigo  Michael  
Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit) should  put things right for Mr K in the way set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7340657