K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that he wasnt able to complete an online purchase using his debit card from 
Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax. 
background
In December 2018, Mr Z was abroad  and wanted  to fly back to the UK. He tried to buy an 
airline ticket online for a flight the following day. But he couldnt make the payment using his 
Halifax card and says this was due to technical  issues with Halifaxs  online banking system 
that night. He says he wasnt  able to buy the plane ticket  which  meant he had to stay abroad 
for several  more days.
Mr Z complained to Halifax. He said he did an internet  search and the results showed there 
were technical issues  with the Halifax  online service  on that day. He said that Halifax have 
breached their terms and conditions and he wanted compensation for the fact he had to stay 
abroad longer  than expected.
Halifax said their online banking team had confirmed  there were no technical issues on the 
date in question. And they couldnt  see any declined transactions on Mr Zs account  on that 
date. So they said they hadnt  done anything wrong. They asked Mr Z why he didnt contact 
them by phone to make the payment after having  no success  online. They  say he told them  
that it was too expensive  to call the UK. They said that he relied on an internet search 
engine to show that there was something  wrong with the banks online system. But he didnt 
contact the bank to try and make the payment. So they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr Z wasnt happy with Halifaxs decision so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
thinks Halifax should pay him compensation for the distress he has experienced and also for 
the fact that he had to stay abroad for longer than he wanted, which he says caused  him 
extra expense and meant he lost wages for those days.
When our adjudicator looked  into it, she didnt think Halifax  had done anything wrong, so she 
didnt think they need to do anything. But Mr Z didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He says that Halifax were updating their online banking system 
on the night he tried to book flights.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z maintains there were technical issues with Halifaxs online banking  system at the time 
he tried to buy the airline ticket. But I havent  seen  anything  which  shows  that to be the case. 
Indeed, Halifax  have provided  records which confirm  Mr Z successfully logged on to his 
online account at that time. And those  records dont show any attempted  payments to the 
airline or any other unsuccessful payments.
After receiving our adjudicators view, Mr Z asked for confirmation from Halifax that there  
were no technical  issues  with online banking on the night  he tried to buy the ticket. Halifax 
have confirmed that there were no issues.
Ref: DRN77338222I note that Mr Z has referred to an email saying that Halifax  were updating their online 
banking system and that customers  wouldnt  be able to use the service between  1am and 
8am that night. He also says that all Halifax customers received reminder letters  about  it. But 
he hasnt provided  any emails or letters for me to consider. And what he says is at odds with 
what Halifax are saying,  which is that there were no technical issues that night.  
Based on everything  Ive seen, I find it likely that Halifaxs online system was working  at the 
time Mr Z tried to buy the ticket. But, even if it wasnt, it would still have been open to him to 
make the payment another  way. 
This is in line with Halifaxs Online Banking Agreement. The relevant clauses are as follows:  
7.1 You can usually  use Online Banking  and the Additional Service  at all times but 
occasionally repairs, updates and maintenance on our systems may mean  some  or all of the 
services arent available or may be slow for a short time.
7.2 We wont be liable to you if you suffer any loss in such circumstances. This is because  
you should be able to give us instructions by other means, for example  by calling us or 
coming into one or our branches.
So, even if the online banking service wasnt working (which  I dont  find likely), Halifax arent 
responsible under their terms and conditions for any loss Mr Z suffered as a result.  In any 
event, an online purchase for something like a plane ticket would normally  be made through 
the retailers website  and not from the customers online banking  page. So I would have 
thought the airline would have been the first port of call here.  
If it was essential for Mr Z to be on the flight the next day, I would have expected  him to 
make more attempts to buy the ticket. For example, either by contacting  the airline or by 
using another  payment card (which is what I understand  he did in the end).  I understand he 
says it was too expensive for him to call Halifax to discuss the issue. But, if speaking to 
Halifax would have  made all the difference between Mr Z flying  home  the next day or not, I 
think its reasonable to expect him to have  done  this. The cost of the call would have been 
less than the cost of staying abroad for several  more days. 
So I dont  think Halifax have done  anything wrong  here. And I dont think theyre  responsible 
for Mr Z staying abroad for longer than he wished. So Im not going  to ask them to do 
anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7733822