K820x#14complaint
Miss W and Mr W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Miss W and Mr W took out a mortgage  through Lloyds in 2002  and bought  a PPI policy  at 
the same  time. The policy gave  them  an equal  joint benefit if either of them was off work sick 
or lost their job.
Miss W says she doesnt feel she and Mr W were given a choice about PPI. She says they 
wouldnt have been given their mortgage  without it.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss W and Mr Ws complaint didnt uphold it.                       
Miss W and Mr W disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss W and Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Miss W and Mr W they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. From what Ive seen,  I think its likely it did this. Miss W and Mr W 
signed a fairly detailed  PPI application  form that was separate from any of their mortgage 
documents. This PPI application included  personal  information about them and also set out 
the amount of the mortgage they wanted covered  by PPI. 
Theres nothing on the form to say the PPI is optional. Looking  at the application              
Miss W and Mr W signed, and knowing  how Lloyds  generally sold PPI with mortgages at this 
time, I think its more likely than not that, at the time,  Lloyds discussed Miss W and Mr Ws 
insurance needs with them and they chose the PPI because, at the time, they wanted it 
knowing they didnt  have to have it. I think if they hadnt wanted  it, its likely they wouldnt 
have signed the form.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Miss W and Mr Ws 
complaint but I dont  think there are. Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to them  so it 
needed to make sure it was right for them. From what  Miss W and Mr W have told us of their 
circumstances at the time and the policy details  Lloyds has given us, I think  it was. I say this 
because:
Miss W and Mr W were eligible for the cover. And they werent caught by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   like known health issues or unusual  employment 
arrangements. So there was nothing to stop them  claiming the full policy benefit if 
theyd needed  to. 
Miss W and Mr W say they got good  sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid a benefit  for 
up to 12 months if either  Miss W or Mr W was off work because of sickness  or an 
accident. And this wouldve been  on top of their sick pay. It would also have covered 
them in the same  way if either  of them had lost their job. A mortgage  is a big financial 
Ref: DRN77990822commitment and the consequences  of falling behind on your repayments can be 
serious. So I think the PPI gave  Miss W and Mr W useful protection.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cost of the PPI was unaffordable for   
Miss W and Mr W.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  Lloyds also had to give Miss W and Mr W 
enough clear information  about  it for them to be able to decide,  in an informed way, if they 
wanted it. I dont  know  what steps Lloyds took to do this and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly  to Miss W and Mr W as they shouldve  been. But, as Ive said,  I 
think its likely they chose  the cover. I also think it was right for them  and so clearer  
information, had it been needed, is likely  only to have confirmed this to them  and not made 
them change their minds. 
I dont think Miss W and Mr W  have lost out because of anything Lloyds may have done 
wrong, so theres  nothing  it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7799082