K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Black Horse  Limited mis-sold her a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a loan.
background
Mrs H took out her first loan with Black Horse  in 2007. She then took out a second loan in 
2008 that paid the first loan off. Black Horse has said that the first PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. 
But it agreed that it mis-sold the second  policy. It has offered compensation for this  which  
was the difference between what the cover cost Mrs H and what a regular monthly premium 
policy wouldve cost. Mrs H accepted the offer of compensation for the second policy and 
has confirmed that she now only wants to complain about the sale of the first policy.  
Therefore this decision is only dealing with the PPI sold with the 2007 loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account when deciding  
this case.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H says that the policy was automatically  added and she was told she had to take it out 
in order to get the loan. Looking at the paperwork from the time of the sale,  I can see that 
Black Horse  completed a demands and needs  questionnaire with Mrs H. The end of this 
document records the recommendation  made  by Black Horse for PPI and that Mrs H had 
agreed to the recommendation.  The loan agreement describes the PPI as Optional Payment 
Protection Plan. Also on the loan agreement, there  is a separate section  for PPI. Mrs H has 
ticked a box in that section to confirm that she wished to buy it, and then she has signed in 
that section, in addition to signing elsewhere for the loan itself.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has said. But Ive also taken  into account how long 
ago the sale took place  and how this may have affected Mrs Hs recollection  of events. 
Overall, looking at the available evidence, I think that it is more likely than not that the policy 
was presented as optional.  It seems to me that Mrs H probably decided  to buy it, knowing  
that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Black Horse  advised Mrs H to buy the policy. So it needed to ensure that it was suitable for 
her. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that the policy  was 
suitable.
Mrs H cant remember  what sick pay, if any, she would have received from her job at the 
time. But the policy would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay and potentially  for longer 
than Mrs H would have  received full pay for. And Mrs H has told us that she didnt have any 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So the policy could have provided a useful 
benefit at what  would  have been a difficult time.
Ref: DRN79679212The policy didnt provide a proportionate  refund if it was cancelled early.  But at the time that 
Mrs H took out the policy, there was no reason to think that she might have wanted  the 
flexibility to refinance  or pay off the loan early.  So it wasnt unreasonable  of Black Horse  to 
recommend the PPI to her.
Black Horse  also needed to give Mrs H enough  information for her to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her. The credit  agreement set 
out the cost of the PPI, including  the interest that would be payable  on the premium. So 
I think Mrs H wouldve  understood what shed be paying for the PPI.
Its possible that Black Horse didnt provide as much  information as it should have  
particularly about  the things that the policy didnt  cover. But as Mrs H wouldnt have been 
affected by any of these,  I dont  think more information would have caused her to change  her 
mind about  buying  the policy.
So I dont  consider that the policy was mis-sold. Which means Black Horse  doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But Black Horse will pay back  some of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs H because:
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because Black Horse  didnt 
tell Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Black Horse  should pay back to Mrs H the extra she paid each month  on the loan because  
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium   including any 
extra Mrs H paid if the loan was paid off early.  Black Horse should  also pay Mrs H 8%* 
simple interest on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest.. Mrs H can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7967921