K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Lloyds  Bank  General  Insurance  Limited wont pay their 
home insurance claim for storm damage  to their felt roof.
background
In September  2018 after heavy wind and rain the night before Mr and Mrs M woke  up to find 
that the felt roof from their loft conversion  had blown off. They made a claim to Lloyds who 
appointed contractors who in turn sent out a surveyor to assess the damage.  He found  that 
the felt hadnt  been  bonded  to the decking and that the fixings  were inadequate. In the 
position where it was (three storeys high) this made it vulnerable due to its exposure. His 
conclusion was that the wind the previous night had caused the roof to be ripped off its 
fixings. He noted  that neighbouring  felt roofs  hadnt  suffered a similar fate.
Lloyds said it wouldnt pay the claim.  It believed the damage to the roof was caused  by the 
inadequate fixings. It pointed out that there  was an exclusion in the policy for damage 
caused by faulty workmanship  or poor design.
On referral to this service  our investigator  considered whether the damage was caused  by a 
storm. He thought that the weather records didnt show  that there was a storm as defined by 
the policy. He also said that overall it was fair for Lloyds to apply the exclusion relating to 
faulty workmanship.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree and the matter has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator pointed out, when considering claims for storm damage we first ask three 
questions. and it is only if the answer  to each  of these questions is most  likely yes that we 
say a claim for storm damage should  succeed . 
The questions are:
1. Was there a storm on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
was there  a storm?
The policy defines  storm as:
A period of violent  weather defined as:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph, sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or hail or 
snow of such intensity  or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
I think that the damage was caused by the wind blowing the felt roof off, rather  than by any 
intense rainfall. The weather records for the area on the day in question show  the peak  gust 
of wind to be 48mph.  That is quite a strong  wind and the nearest  weather station is 10 miles 
away. So even if it doesnt come strictly within the policy definition  I think it would be fair to 
regard this as a storm.
Ref: DRN71948912is the damage claimed for consistent with damage  a storm typically  causes?
The damage claimed for is the felt roof blowing off. That could be consistent with storm 
damage and Ill accept that in this case.
was the storm the dominant cause of the damage?
I think its reasonable to rely on the expert report from the surveyor appointed by Lloyds. The 
report refers to the felt roof being inadequately fixed to the decking. The felt wasnt  bonded 
to the decking but inadequately fixed with nails. The surveyors opinion was that this allowed 
the wind to effectively pull away the roof felt. And although there  were  strong  winds it doesnt 
appear likely  to me that had the roof been properly fixed and maintained, that it would have 
blown off in the way it did.
So I dont  think storm was the dominant  cause  of the damage  the wind just highlighted the 
faulty workmanship in fixing  the roof. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ms roof was only six or 
seven years old, but if it wasnt properly fixed it was likely to be ripped off by the strong wind. 
The surveyor noted that none  of the neighbours properties had had this sort of damage.  So, 
the answer to this question is no. This means that the claim doesnt  succeed under the 
storm part of the policy.
accidental damage
 
Mr and Mrs M do have  accidental  damage cover on their policy. This is defined as An 
accident that causes physical damage,  which  is caused suddenly by an outside  force  and is 
not expected and not deliberate.
So the policy  could  cover this even if the damage  wasnt covered as storm damage. But 
there is an exclusion which applies to all sections  of the policy for:
Faulty workmanship, poor design,  or defective or inherently unsuitable materials. 
Given the report setting  out the inadequate  fixing of the roof, I think that its most likely that 
there was faulty  workmanship. So I think it was fair to apply the exclusion.  As this applies to 
all sections of the policy, the damage  cant be considered under any other part of the policy.
So overall I dont  think the damage  here is covered under  the storm section of the policy.  I 
also think it was fair of Lloyds to apply the exclusion for faulty workmanship, so it isnt 
covered under any other section  of the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 December  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7194891