K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Lloyds  Bank Plc, trading at the time as Lloyds TSB, mis-sold  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy to her, with a credit card.
background
In 2000 Mrs M opened a credit card account with Lloyds. She also took out a monthly 
premium PPI policy. It would meet 5% of her card repayments for up to 12 months if she was 
off work because of accident or sickness or if she lost her job, and it would pay off her 
account balance  if she died. 
Lloyds has told us the policy was cancelled in 2005. But Mrs M is complaining about how it 
had been sold to her back  in 2000.  Among other things, she says her job and employee 
benefits meant she didnt  need the PPI. 
Our adjudicator felt her complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  Mrs M needed the PPI 
policy enough to make its benefits  worth the cost for her, or that it was suitable for her. But 
Lloyds hasnt agreed, so the complaints  come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M and Lloyds are agreed that she took out the credit  card in a Lloyds branch, and 
bought the PPI at the same time.  Ive seen the form she completed to apply for the card, and 
I think thats right  the yes box for having PPI was ticked.
Lloyds accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mrs M. So Lloyds  had to check the policy  
was right for Mrs M and also give her clear information about it, so she could fairly decide  
whether or not to have  it. This included making  her aware of the policys  cost and benefits,  in 
a way that she could reasonably understand. I dont know what  was discussed about the PPI 
before she took it out. But from what Ive read and been told I dont think  Lloyds gave her all 
the information it shouldve done,  sufficiently clearly, or that the policy  was suitable  for her. 
Looking at the application form for the card,  it didnt  tell Mrs M about  the PPI policys cost.  
Lloyds says this wouldve  been explained in the meeting, before she agreed to have it  and 
thats possible. But Ive not seen anything to show me clearly that it was, or that Mrs M 
wouldve properly understood the cost of the policy - for example that because  the cost 
would be added to her account, she could  be charged interest on the PPI premiums  if she 
didnt pay the card balance in full each month. Or that shed still have to pay the premiums 
when making a claim under the policy. 
Mrs M may well have  been given written  details of the policy later,  as well as getting 
statements on her account showing how much shed been charged for it. But by the time she 
Ref: DRN77292012got that information shed  already  agreed to have  the PPI. So this wouldnt to my mind  be 
enough to put right the earlier failings.
Overall, Ive not been shown that Lloyds  gave Mrs M clear and full enough information about 
the PPI before she agreed to have  it. So I dont think she was in a position fairly to weigh  up 
the cost against  the potential benefits. And I think this wouldve been  important to Mrs M, 
when she was deciding  if the policy was something she wanted. 
And having considered what shes told us about her situation at the time she bought the PPI, 
I think that if shed got better information Mrs M probably wouldnt  have  taken it out. Nor do I 
think the policy Lloyds  recommended  was right for her needs.
Thats because Mrs M has said shed been  in her public sector job for well over 20 years. 
Shes told us that as well as having  some small savings, she wouldve got good sick pay if 
shed been unable to work owing to illness or injury. I think thats likely to be right.  So shed 
probably have  been  able to make her card repayments for quite some time without PPI. And 
the PPI wouldve only paid 5% of the outstanding balance  on her card each month.
I think too that she wouldve felt her job was a fairly secure one, but anyway that she 
wouldve probably been entitled to a good redundancy package if shed lost it. 
Taking all of this into account,  in her particular circumstances I dont think Mrs M wouldve 
considered the policy  was very useful or good value  for her, if shed fully understood its cost 
and benefits. I dont think she wouldve felt she had a strong need for PPI. So in my view,  on 
balance its unlikely she wouldve bought the policy. I think shed probably have taken out the 
credit card without PPI. Nor, for the same reasons, do I think the PPI was suitable for her. 
This means  shes lost out because of what Lloyds  did wrong, and I think its fair and 
reasonable to uphold  her complaint. So I dont need to deal with the other issues shes 
raised about the sale.  
putting things right
Lloyds should  put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
Im told her credit card account has already been  closed and the PPI has been cancelled. 
But the policy should be cancelled now, if it hasnt yet been, and:
A. Lloyds  should  find out how much Mrs M wouldve owed when her credit card account was 
closed, if the policy  hadnt been  added.  
So it should  remove  the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the PPI, 
as well as any interest  added to those charges.
Lloyds should  then refund  the difference between  what Mrs M owed when  the card account 
was closed and what she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. 
And if, as it tells us it has, Lloyds has already repaid to Mrs M any commission  amount that 
relates to this sale of PPI, it can deduct  that from the compensation to be paid now.
Ref: DRN77292013B. Lloyds  should  add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs M wouldve owed 
when her account was closed,  from when it was closed until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year*.
C. If - when Lloyds works out what Mrs M wouldve owed each month without PPI  she paid 
more than enough to clear  her balance, Lloyds should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Mrs M paid.  And it should carry  on paying interest until the point when Mrs M wouldve owed 
Lloyds something  on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year*.
D. Lloyds should  tell Mrs M what its done to work  out A, B and C.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds  must  give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much it has taken off, if she asks for one. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Ms complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc is to pay 
her the fair compensation Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7729201