K822xcomplaint
Mr A and Miss C complain that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) have treated them unfairly  when 
handling a claim  they made under their landlord insurance policy.
background 
Mr A and Miss C own a property that they rent to tenants. When a previous tenant left in 
June 2017, they discovered damage  to their ground  floor laminate flooring and to their 
upstairs cream carpets across a number of rooms.
Mr A and Miss C contacted UKI to make a claim, and it sent a representative  to inspect the 
damage in late July 2017. UKI said would cover  the claims, but it said the damage to the 
upstairs carpets across  the different rooms wasnt linked to one single  event. So it said it 
would require multiple excesses of £100 to account  for the damage to each room. Mr A and 
Miss C said this wasnt fair as the damage  to the carpets came from one event, so they 
should only be charged for one excess payment for all of the carpet  damage.
Mr A and Miss C said they had to make multiple calls to UKI during this time to ask for 
updates. They said they were often  promised calls backs that were not met. And as a result 
of this claim ongoing they were unable to get a new tenant into the property which caused 
them a loss of rent as well as additional outgoings.
UKI agreed  to pay both claims and the funds were received a few weeks  later. Mr A and 
Miss C say they then had the works completed and a tenant moved in at the end of 
September 2017. 
Mr A and Miss C complained to UKI and said it had taken nine weeks  from the first phone 
call to the claim being settled, which was too long. And they said UKI hadnt investigated the 
claim properly.
UKI acknowledged it could have handled the claim better  and offered £100  for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused. And it agreed  to charge  one excess for the carpets overall. Mr A 
and Miss C said theyd lost out on £1,100  for property outgoings as they wouldve had a new 
tenant in place sooner had it not delayed the claim and payment.
Mr A and Miss C brought their complaint to our service. UKI reviewed  its position  and said it 
would offer £200 for trouble and upset  caused during the handling of the complaint. And it 
said would  re-open  the claim as it should have considered a claim for Mr A and Miss Cs loss 
of rent when  they first reported damage to the floors.
UKI considered Mr A and Miss Cs loss of rent and said it would accept two months loss of 
rent at £700 per month  the monthly limit of the policy.  It also said it would cover  the costs  
of the council tax for the property during  this time,  despite this not being covered  under the 
policy.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said UKIs revised offer was fair. Mr A 
and Miss C disagreed  and said UKI should provide  ten weeks of rent, not two calendar 
months as it proposed.
Ref: DRN71116722Our investigator said Mr A and Miss C had only discovered the damage to the floors after the 
previous tenant  had moved out. So she felt it was likely the property would have been 
unoccupied for a short time while new tenants were  being found.  And it wasnt fair to expect 
UKI to provide  rent cover during a period the property wouldnt have been let anyway.
Mr A and Miss C asked for an ombudsmans final decision so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Miss Cs insurance policy  is designed to cover landlords. And one element of this 
cover is rent receivable. This says UKI will provide up to £700 per month (in line with Mr A 
and Miss Cs schedule) to cover  the loss of rental  income in the event that damage to their 
property stops  them  from renting it to tenants.
In this case UKI has accepted there  was damage , and has agreed it will pay £1,400 to 
cover two months loss of rent. It has also agreed to cover additional  council tax costs for this 
period as a goodwill gesture. Ive considered whether UKIs offer is fair, and if it is in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.
Mr A and Miss C say the policy should  cover  ten full weeks  as this was the period the home 
was actually unoccupied. Mr A and Miss C have told us their previous tenants moved out in 
mid July 2017.  And theyve said prospective tenants  visited  and accepted  the property to 
rent one week later. But due to the ongoing delays  and repairs, they said the tenant was 
unable to move in until late September 2017  just over nine weeks after the previous tenant 
moved out.
Its not in dispute  there wasnt a tenant immediately ready to move  into the property on the 
departure of the previous tenant. So during this gap Mr A and Miss C wouldve been  without  
any rental income until they found  a new tenant.  I wouldnt  expect  UKI to cover this period as 
they wouldnt have  had any rental  income  during this time anyway.
Mr A and Miss C have said a tenant  had accepted the property one week  after. I appreciate  
this may have been the case. But it seems unlikely to me that a new tenant would have been 
ready to move in the same day as the viewing without some  short  period of notice  at least  to 
make arrangements  for the move.
Its difficult to know  for certain  how long Mr A and Miss Cs home wouldve been unoccupied 
for had the repairs been completed quicker.  But Im satisfied UKIs offer of £1,400,  for two 
full calendar months,  is a reasonable  reflection in light of the circumstances. And I cant 
ignore UKI has also offered to cover Mr A and Miss Cs council  tax during this period  which  
is more than I wouldve  recommended and not required under the policy terms.
UKI has acknowledged it didnt update Mr A and Miss C throughout the life of the claim as it 
should have done. And Ive seen there were disputes about the number of excess payments  
that should be paid that are now resolved. So Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr A 
and Miss C. UKI offered £200 to compensate for the inconvenience, and considering this 
alongside its offer to cover the council  tax costs, Im satisfied this is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN71116723my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im satisfied UKIs offer is reasonable and I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111672