K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined  his travel insurance claim.
background
Mr K has travel  insurance linked  to a bank account.  This insurance is underwritten by Aviva.
Mr K and his wife booked  a holiday.  They were due to travel on 26 December 2018 and 
return on 3 January 2019. But Mr K was unable to go as he was feeling unwell with flu-like 
symptoms. He says he followed the guidelines  on the NHS  website for flu. And later 
obtained a medical certificate from a doctor.  
Aviva wouldnt  accept  this certificate  as evidence that Mr K was unable to travel as it was 
dated four weeks after hed been due to depart for the holiday.  It asked  for proof  Mr K had 
called NHS  111 or his general practitioner (GP) on the 21 December 2018 as hed advised. 
But Mr K wasnt  able to provide this. He offered to provide  proof from his employer  that he 
was off work  during this period. But Aviva still declined his claim.
Our investigator considered what had happened  and felt Aviva had acted fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy which state that all claims resulting from illness or 
injury must be supported  by medical  reports obtained at the time. He didnt think  Avivas 
request for further evidence was unreasonable. And said that if Mr K was able to provide it 
theyd expect Aviva to consider his claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Mr K has now confirmed  that hes checked his phone log and doesnt  think  he did in fact call 
NHS 111 or his GP as hed suggested to Aviva.  But he still feels  its treated him unfairly  as 
the NHS  guidance  for flu says that you dont need to visit your GP unless symptoms 
continue for more than seven days.  
The case  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr K will be disappointed,  but 
overall Ive reached  the same conclusions as our investigator did here. Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully  at the policy Mr K has with Aviva. The following sections are particularly 
relevant to this complaint: 
Cancellation  if you need to cancel your trip

We will pay for costs  that each insured person  has paid,  and cannot  get back, or which 
legally have to be paid for their own personal travel  and accommodation (including 
excursions and unused kennel,  cattery or professional pet sitter fees up to a maximum of 
£250) if, after you added the Travel Pack to your Qualifying Account or booked your trip,
(whichever is later),  you unavoidably have to cancel your  trip for one of the reasons  below
1. You are injured,  fall ill, are quarantined or die. 
Ref: DRN705291022. 
Special conditions
1. All claims resulting from injury, illness, quarantine or death must be supported  by medical  
reports obtained at the time or a death  certificate (or both) indicating the necessity to cancel 
the trip.
Mr K contacted Aviva on 27 December  2018, the day after hed been due to go on the 
holiday. He described his symptoms and said hed been unable  to travel. Aviva responded 
the same  day to advise  that it would need  some further documentation before it could 
consider his claim. This included  a medical  certificate that needed to be completed  by Mr Ks 
GP. One of the questions on this certificate asks What date did the patient first consult a 
doctor about this condition? 
Mr K provided the completed medical  certificate  to Aviva on 3 February 2019. Ive looked  at 
a copy of it, and I can see it advises that the date he first consulted a doctor about his illness  
was the 29 January 2019. 
Aviva says that because  this was over four weeks after he was due to go on the holiday,  and 
Mr K hasnt been able to provide any other evidence to prove he was unable to travel due to 
illness, it feels his claim doesnt  meets the policy condition Ive outlined  above.
I can see Mr K advised Aviva in an email  dated 8 January  2019  that hed taken the medical 
certificate to his GP on 3 January 2019. But this doesnt appear to be supported by the dates 
advised on the certificate. And as discussed  with our investigator,  Mr K hasnt provided  any 
further evidence  of this.
Mr K had previously suggested  to Aviva that hed contacted the NHS 111 service and his GP 
about his illness on 21 December 2018.  Aviva, in my opinion  quite  reasonably, asked for 
evidence of these  calls. But Mr Ks now confirmed that he was mistaken on this point and 
had simply followed the NHS guidance  for flu, which advises that it can often be treated at 
home without the need to the visit a GP. 
I can understand why Mr K relied  on the NHS  website for guidance in how to treat his 
symptoms. And Ive given  consideration to the Insurance Conduct of Business  rules which  
state that an insurer must not unreasonably  reject a claim (ICOBS 8.1.1R). But I dont  think  
its unreasonable Aviva expected Mr K to have contacted his GP or the NHS 111 service in 
light of the fact he was looking to make  an insurance  claim as a result of the illness. I think 
that the policy makes  it clear that its a condition of cover that claims resulting from injury or 
illness need to be supported by medical  reports obtained at the time. And I dont  think  that 
consulting a doctor over a month  after travel was due to take place reasonably fulfils that 
condition in the circumstances of this case. 
I also note that Mr Ks own testimony, and the information on the medical certificate, 
suggests he was ill for at least 5 days prior to his holiday. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest he couldnt reasonably have contacted his GP, NHS 111, or Aviva during this time in 
case he didnt recover quickly enough to be able to travel.  
Mr K has offered to provide a letter  from his employer to evidence  that he was off work 
during this time. But Im afraid I agree  with our investigator that this wouldnt suffice as 
evidence of an illness or medical  condition. 
Ref: DRN70529103I do sympathise with Mr K. And I appreciate hell likely be very disappointed  by my decision 
here. But having considered all of the evidence and arguments presented, I dont  think  Aviva 
has treated him unfairly or unreasonably when  declining this claim.  So Im not going to ask it 
to do anything further.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7052910