K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
Although the policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), Lloyds is now responsible 
for this complaint  so the complaint has been  set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Lloyds in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Lloyds have given  me a copy of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage  application  form. But it doesnt 
have any paperwork from the PPI sale itself. This is understandable  given how long ago the 
sale took place.  
Mr and Mrs J say that they werent  made  aware the PPI was optional. Lloyds had to make it 
clear the PPI was optional  and that Mr and Mrs J agreed to take it. Neither partys been  able 
to give us much detail about  how the PPI was sold. But because of this Ive not seen enough 
to say its likely Lloyds  did do things  to make Mr and Mrs J think  the PPI wasnt optional. Or 
that they didnt  agree  to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Ive taken note of what  theyve 
said about their good  employer  sick pay. But PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this. 
Mr and Mrs J say they had some savings at the time  but if one or both of them couldnt 
work, I think  the PPI wouldve freed up any savings to pay for their other essential bills and 
living expenses. So, weighing everything  up, I think the policy still offered useful protection  
for Mr and Mrs J.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been   including about its costs. But it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. Ultimately, the 
mortgage was a big and long term commitment, secured on their home.  Mr and Mrs J were 
responsible for making the repayments  and the consequences of failing to do that couldve 
been very serious.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs J some of the commission 
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Js 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
Ref: DRN72449492doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7244949