K822xcomplaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  She says the bank added the policy to her account  without her 
knowledge.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in April 2005. The policy was 
added to Miss Bs credit card account  when she applied  for the card in person. The policy  
cost 78p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Halifax made Miss B aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. Ive seen a copy  of the application form and note that the option  of PPI was 
checked and the application form was signed by Miss B. Ive taken note of the fact 
that the application form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this was an advised  
sale, and was conducted in a branch, face to face, I think its reasonable to assume 
that a discussion  took place. And I think that the form,  including  Miss Bs personal 
details, was typed  because the form was completed on-screen during that discussion. 
Moreover, as this was a monthly policy it wouldve appeared on Miss Bs monthly credit 
card statements  so I think she wouldve queried  it in 2005 if it had been added  to her 
account without  either her knowledge or her consent.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because  
Miss B wasnt caught by any of the exclusions  or limitations which  would have made 
the policy less useful for her, such as being  self-employed or having a pre-existing 
medical condition.  Whilst Miss B had some sick pay, I believe the policy  provided  her 
with a sufficient  benefit, which outweighed its cost.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if she 
wasnt working because  of an accident, sickness or unemployment as she had limited 
work benefits  this policy wouldve  paid out in addition to these.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN78315712Ive thought about everything Miss B has said, but these points dont change my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss B back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss B now Ive issued my final decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7831571