K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card agreement  application form completed 
at the time. To get the PPI Mr C had to tick a box and sign for it. This signature for the PPI 
was separate  to the signature required to take out the credit.  Mr C has signed  the form which 
indicates he wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mr C was taking out further credit, if he 
didnt want the PPI, I would have expected him to raise this before he signed the application.  
So having  taken everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr C didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax says the policy was sold without a formal  recommendation.  Ive been shown no 
documentary evidence  that suggests that the policy was sold on an advised basis.  So, 
Halifax had to give Mr C clear enough information  about the policy so he could decide if he 
wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I dont  think better information would have stopped him from buying it. I explain 
why I say that below.  
 
Mr C was eligible for the policy. And there  are things that sometimes  arent covered by a 
policy like this, or for which the benefit might be more difficult  to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mr C wouldnt have been affected by those. For instance Mr C 
told us he was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think that Mr C had, most likely,  a need  for the cover. I say that whilst noting that Mr C 
told us he was entitled to full pay for a year in the event he was too ill to work. As this is an 
unusually high level of sick pay we asked Mr C to supply evidence to support his testimony. 
Mr C has been unable  to provide evidence  to confirm these high levels of benefit, so I have 
not been able to place  the weight on this that Mr C may have otherwise wished me to do. 
So, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr C may have been entitled  
to, and potentially  for longer than Mr C would have  received full pay from his employer.  And 
the policy would have paid out if he lost his job, when his sick pay wouldnt have been 
available to him as a support. Mr C has said that he had some savings. But the policy would 
have allowed him to retain these or use them to cover any other  outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. So, having considered this, on balance, I think that Mr C would 
have found the policy useful.
Ref: DRN76864712So for the reasons given above  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr C 
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mr C paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr C back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr C now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7686471