K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint against American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) is that hes 
out of pocket following a failure in its mobile app.
background
In April 2019, Mr A made two payments to his AESEL account.  When  he checked his mobile 
app, and online banking,  these payments had each been credited  twice,  making  it look as 
though he had more to spend that he truly did. So he then spent a further £300-400.
When he realised what had happened, he said he had to take that money from the further  
spending out of his savings, to pay back into his AESEL account.  
He complained to AESEL.  He said it took a few days for it to acknowledge that a technical 
systems error  had caused payments into accounts  to be duplicated. He was also then 
unhappy with how his complaint was handled.  
AESEL admitted its systems error,  and apologised.  It offered Mr A 5,000 card reward points 
as compensation.  He didnt think this was enough,  so it increased its offer to 7500, as a 
goodwill gesture.
Mr A still didnt  think his complaint had been satisfactorily resolved, so he came  to our 
service. Our Investigator looked into matters, and concluded that AESEL had already taken 
sufficient steps to resolve the complaint fairly. So she wasnt going  to ask it to do any more.
Mr A still disagreed. He said he effectively  lost £300-400 by spending it when he didnt 
actually have it to spend. He asked  for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that AESELs already done enough 
to resolve this complaint.
I can understand Mr As shock and disappointment when he realised AESELs error, and 
that hed spent more money  than hed budgeted for. But I cant hold AESEL  entirely 
responsible for this. Mr A feels hes out of pocket by £300-400, as he wouldnt have spent 
this money hadnt  it been for the systems error.  But I can only assume that Mr A himself 
enjoyed the benefit of this spending, either on goods  or services. He spent these funds 
willingly, and it wouldnt be fair for me to ask AESEL  to reimburse them.
Mr As also unhappy with the compensation hes already been offered. I see its already 
been increased from 5000 to 7500  reward points. Although  I cant  say AESELs responsible 
for Mr As loss, I do agree  that its error  caused him inconvenience. And I think the apology 
and offer of 7500 is fair and proportionate  to this.
Mr As also unhappy with how AESEL handled  his complaint. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity, so our service isnt able to look into this matter any further. But I can say 
that from what Ive seen the offer of compensation already made is fair and reasonable to 
make up for any failings in this respect. 
Ref: DRN79052022my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7905202