K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with two loans  
in 2002 and 2003. Mr H says Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr H says he was under the impression that he wouldnt get the loans without the PPI.
2002 sale
Mr H initially took out PPI with a loan in 2002.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of the loan agreement for Mr Hs loan. This set out the cost of 
the loan both with and without PPI and referred  to the PPI as optional.
Based on this, I think Nationwide made it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about  the PPI, 
and that Mr H chose  to take it.
2003 sale
Mr H took out another loan in 2003, which also included  PPI.
Nationwide has said this loan and PPI were taken  out over the phone. And based  on what  I 
understand about Nationwides  sales practices at the time, I think its likely it was made clear 
to Mr H that he had a choice about  the PPI in this phone call.
Nationwide has also sent us a copy of the loan agreement for this loan. This also set out the 
cost of the loan with and without PPI and referred  to the PPI as optional.
So I think Nationwide made it clear to Mr H that he had a choice about the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it.
both sales
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
Ref: DRN73964592policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been  entitled to sick pay. So 
it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr H has said his family couldve  helped  with his repayments. And I dont doubt  that they 
wouldve wanted to help. But peoples financial circumstances  can change, so they might not 
have been able to help when Mr H needed  it. The PPI wouldve  meant  Mr H didnt need to 
rely on his family to make his repayments  if he wasnt earning. So I still think  it would have 
bene useful to him. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And so I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking it out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI on the 2003  loan to Mr H because :
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium from the 2003  loan. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr H 
any extra  interest  he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr H the extra he paid each month on the 2003  loan because  
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium  - including any 
extra Mr H paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide should also pay Mr H 8%* simple 
interest on the extra he paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN73964593my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium from the 2003 loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7396459