K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) didnt correctly  disclose the costs  
involved in taking out a foreign currency account.  She wants to close  the account without 
repaying any fees.
background
In July 2018 Ms D was in a Metro Bank branch when she asked if she could pay two 
cheques, issued in US dollars, into a foreign  currency account.  The cheques were  several 
months old. She was told the best course of action  was to open a current  account and then a 
foreign currency account. She says Metro Bank confirmed the fee for the foreign currency  
account would be US$8 per month,  but this wouldnt apply  if she didnt use the account.
Soon after Ms D was informed that the two cheques couldnt be paid in as they had expired. 
She also realised that she had been  charged  US$25  per month for the account and a fee for 
cash charges. She complained as she said she had been misled. She said she had been 
promised three times that the cheques could be paid in. And she had been  assured the 
monthly fee, which she believed should be US$8,  wouldnt apply if the account was unused.  
She asked  for the account to be closed but Metro  Bank said it was in arrears and couldnt be 
closed. Metro Bank also said it wouldnt be upholding her complaint as it had acted 
according to its terms and conditions, which she would have seen when  she opened the 
account. And these  said the monthly fee was US$25 if the value of the transactions  was less 
than US$3,000.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. From the 
evidence hed seen  he felt Metro Bank had made Ms D aware  of the charges relating  to a 
foreign currency account  in the documentation  it provided to her, when she opened the 
account. Ms D disagreed,  she said the investigator  hadnt asked Metro Bank to prove it 
fulfilled its obligation  to her. As no resolution  could be found the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Ms D feels strongly that Metro  Bank  misled  her and I can sympathise with her 
position in holding an account that is accruing charges without giving her any real benefit. 
But in this case I dont  think Metro Bank  has acted  incorrectly, which I know  will disappoint 
Ms D so Ill explain  why.
Ms D says Metro Bank incorrectly advised her about  the amount of the monthly  account 
charge and that it wouldnt  be applied if she didnt use the account.  All the documentation  
Ive seen refers  to a monthly fee, and Ive seen that Ms D accepts that, but I think its unlikely 
such an account wouldnt incur ongoing  charges even if there werent any transactions.  So, 
on balance I think its unlikely Ms D was told there would  be no ongoing  fees. 
But the documentation  also notes the monthly  fees as being US$25 or US$8 depending on if 
the monthly balance  is above or below  US$3,000.  So I can understand Ms Ds reference to 
Ref: DRN75277852an US$8 monthly fee. I cant be sure what was said when Ms D opened the account in 
branch. I note shes said the adviser  hadnt  opened  a foreign account before. But I do think  
its likely  Ms D would  have  been provided  with, or been asked to read the foreign currency 
account important  information summary . Especially as she believed  the adviser wasnt  sure 
about what he was doing. Ive seen  how that documentation shows  clearly  that by paying in 
the initial two cheques  which were below  US$3,000  Ms Ds account would have incurred 
the US$25 monthly fee. 
Ive also seen a bank statement dated  31 July 2018  which was sent to Ms D and showed the 
account had incurred a monthly fee of US$25  and cash  charges of US$1.48. It also noted at 
the bottom  of page 2 this document sets out the charges and interest that have accrued on 
your account  within the above period. There are 3 types of charge. It also noted the three 
charges and referred to the foreign currency account important information  summary. So, I 
think even if Ms D did leave the branch with the belief that the fee was US$8 she was 
presented with sufficient  information around  seven  days  later which suggested  the fees 
would be different to what she thought. 
The terms and conditions  of the account say that it can be cancelled  within  14 days  of the 
date of the application. So, if Ms D had queried the charges at this point, which  I believe she 
should have done, she would have  been able to cancel the account with no charges.
Ms D says Metro Bank hasnt proved it carried out its duties and fulfilled its obligations to 
her. But Metro Bank did successfully open both the accounts to enable her to pay in her 
cheques. And Im persuaded she would have been  provided with all the relevant documents 
of the accounts  terms and conditions and charges, so Im satisfied she was in possession of 
the information she needed  in order to understand how the account worked. I note that Ms D 
thinks that obtaining CCTV would make a difference to the outcome of this case. But I dont 
agree. CCTV  if still available after this length of time, may confirm a discussion took place. 
But there is no dispute that a discussion took place. And I dont think CCTV would confirm 
what was actually discussed.   
Ive also considered that Ms D says she was told  on three  separate  occasions  that she 
would be able to pay in the currency cheques  despite the date of issue. Metro Bank has 
explained that any expiry date of cheques is determined by whoever issued the cheques and 
the country of that bank as different countries have different rules about expiration  of 
cheques. So I think even if Metro Bank suggested  they should be valid when paid in, it 
couldnt have  been sure until it tried to process  them. And its confirmed the cheques were 
reversed within a very short time of being  paid in. So while I cant  be sure exactly what Ms D 
was told I dont think Metro could have guaranteed the cheques would be honoured. And Im 
satisfied it made her aware  of the reversal  in a timely manner which would have  allowed her 
to have cancelled  the account  if she believed it would no longer be useful  for her needs. 
And I would also have expected Ms D to have  queried the charges on the account at that 
point, when she was told the cheques couldnt  be paid in.  
I note Ms D has said this complaint is similar to cases where Payment  Protection  Insurance 
(PPI) is mis-sold.  But we look at complaints based  on the individual circumstances of each 
case. And here,  I dont think Metro mis-sold the US$ account to Ms D  particularly, as the 
account was opened at her request.
Ref: DRN75277853If Ms D wants to close her account she needs  to contact Metro Bank to confirm  the balance  
that needs to be repaid. And I would urge Ms D to do that as soon as possible to avoid the 
charges increasing  further and the account having a detrimental effect on her credit  file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint against Metro  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7527785