K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that GE Money  Home Lending  Limited didnt reduce the interest rate on 
her mortgage in line with the falls in the Bank  of England base rate. Shes also unhappy with 
the service she received  when she wanted  to redeem  her mortgage.
background
Miss E took out a mortgage in 1991.  This mortgage was then transferred  to another lender 
and then onto GE Money. The mortgage  was taken out on an interest only basis  with a term 
of 25 years and was redeemed in 2016.
Miss E said that the mortgage interest rate which was applied  by GE Money was excessive. 
She said that the Bank of England base  rate (BoEBR) was 0.5% but the rate that she was 
paying on her mortgage  was much  higher.
She said that she called  GE Money to discuss the interest rate with them and shes  unhappy 
with the service she received. She said that the person she spoke to laughed  at her. Miss E 
also said shes unhappy with the service she received  when she wanted to redeem her 
mortgage.
GE Money  said that the interest rate applied was in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. They said that this interest rate was a variable rate and tracked  the Barclays base 
rate.
GE Money  accepted that the redemption quote  they sent out in January 2016  was sent in 
error and that Miss E couldnt make a payment to her mortgage account in March  2016, due 
to an issue with their systems.  GE Money have offered Miss E £25 for the inconvenience 
that this caused  her.
With regard to the phone call that Miss E had with one of the advisers  at GE Money,  GE 
Money have said they are unable to locate the telephone call in question  as they no longer 
hold records before 2011. 
Miss E was unhappy  with what GE Money had said so she brought  the complaint to our 
service. The complaint was looked  at by one of our investigators who didnt recommend that 
the complaint  should be upheld.  
Ref: DRN71626242Because of this, Miss E asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has 
come to me to decide.
She said:
she wasnt given a choice about  the sale of her mortgage to GE Money
she wasnt provided with the terms and conditions regarding the interest rates.  She 
said they increased when the BoEBR increased but didnt decrease when the rate 
went down
shes unhappy that she was laughed  at when she enquired about changing the 
interest rate. She said the fact that GE Money cant provide  this telephone call 
recording doesnt mean the call didnt take place
GE Money were  unfairly charging her 9.5% interest and she believes she was being 
held to ransom as she wasnt  able to move to another  lender. She said she wasnt 
offered any other rates
shes unhappy with how GE Money have handled her complaint
when she tried to redeem the mortgage the procedure was messy and stressful
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I understand that Miss E has strong 
feelings about her complaint, I wont be upholding it. Ill explain why.
the interest rate
GE Money  have said that they dont hold records before 2011. This isnt unreasonable as a 
business is only required to hold documentation  and records for six years. So I have to base 
my decision  on information that I do have and what I think  it likely to have happened.
Miss E has said that her interest rate was excessive compared to the BoEBR which  was at 
0.5% for a number  of years. She said that her rate didnt decrease when the BoEBR  did.
Ive looked at the general conditions which are applicable to the mortgage and I can see 
these were included  in the mortgage offer at the time. One of the conditions is method of 
calculation of interest and payment and this condition says:
GE Money  has by the terms of its legal mortgage over the property a right to vary the rate of 
interest charges  and the amount of the monthly  payment.  The loan is subject in any event  to 
a minimum rate of interest of 8.5% per annum.
I appreciate that Miss E feels that 8.5% is an excessive rate of interest.  But we wouldnt 
decide as a service  what an excessive rate may be. We look at what we think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of each  complaint  and whether the terms of the mortgage 
were clear.
Ref: DRN71626243Ive looked at the mortgage interest  rate history to see what rates were applied to the 
mortgage and I can see that from March 2009,  the interest applied was 8.44% per annum 
(the monthly interest rate was 0.7033%).The BoEBR  did change to 0.5% in March 2009  and 
Miss E isnt happy  that her interest  rate didnt reduce at the same time.  But from what I can 
see, her rate did go down at the same time as it was previously charged at a monthly  rate of 
0.745% which was 8.94%  per annum.
The general conditions  set out that the minimum  rate of interest  which would be applied  to 
the mortgage would be 8.5% per annum. And the rate that was applied to Miss Es mortgage  
in March 2009 was 8.44%. So this was below  the minimum  interest rate or floor rate (the 
lowest rate it could be) that GE Money set in their conditions. So I cant say that they have 
applied the interest  rate unfairly.
While I understand that the BoEBR  has changed  considerably since  Miss E took her 
mortgage out in 1991 and that the floor rate applied to her mortgage was higher than other  
rates available elsewhere, I cant see that GE Money set any barriers to Miss E moving her 
mortgage elsewhere. And I appreciate  that Miss E has said that because  of the type of 
property she had, she was unable to find another lender who would  consider  taking  on the 
mortgage. But I cant hold GE Money responsible for this and cant see anything  that says 
that they prevented Miss E from moving her mortgage from them to another  lender.
I acknowledge that Miss E has said she wasnt provided with the terms and conditions 
regarding the interest  rates. From  what I can see, these were included  with the mortgage 
offer in 1991.  GE Money have said these were  provided to Miss E with the mortgage  offer at 
the time.  While I appreciate that Miss E has said she didnt receive them,  I havent seen 
anything which would  make me think that she wasnt provided with this information. And on 
balance, I think that GE Money would have included  the terms and conditions  with the 
mortgage offer when  the mortgage  was taken out. 
administration of the mortgage
Miss E has said she was unhappy  with how a call was handled when she contacted  GE 
Money in order to discuss the interest rate on her mortgage. She said that the adviser she 
spoke to laughed at her.
Unfortunately, because the call happened a long time ago, GE Money  are unable to provide  
the call recording.  And as Ive already said, this isnt unusual or unreasonable.  Miss E has 
said that although the call recording isnt available, it doesnt mean that the call didnt 
happen. I am not disputing whether a call took place. But without the call recording to listen  
to, I have to base my decision  on the information that I have  and what I think is likely  to have 
happened at the time.
I dont doubt that Miss E contacted GE Money  to discuss the interest rate on her mortgage 
and I appreciate the call may have been  frustrating for her because she says she wanted GE 
Money to change the rate that she was on. But I dont  have  enough either way to say how 
the call conversation would have gone  and without any specific  information  about the call 
itself, I cant say that GE Money acted  unfairly  or unreasonably with how they dealt with 
Miss E in this situation.
Miss E has also commented  that she wasnt given a choice about the sale of her mortgage  
to GE Money. But this isnt something  that she would have needed to give consent  on. The 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  has a section on assignment or transfer which says:
Ref: DRN71626244the company may from time to time transfer or assign the Advance, the Mortgage, its 
interest in the policy or policies of life assurance  and other related security or any one or 
more of them to any company,  person  or body without notice to the Applicant. The Applicant 
consents to each transfer or assignment.
Because of this, Im satisfied that Miss E didnt need to agree to the sale of her mortgage  to 
GE Money.
redemption of the mortgage
Miss E contacted GE Money in January 2016 about  redeeming her mortgage. She said she 
wanted to redeem it in April 2016.  Ive had a look at the call notes in relation to this. When 
Miss E called and requested the quote,  the adviser said that it was too early  and to call back 
nearer the time. However it appeared that a redemption statement was sent out anyway in 
error.  
Miss E also tried to make a payment to her mortgage in March  2019 but was unable to do so 
due to system issues that GE Money  were experiencing at the time. Because of this, a 
further two redemption statements were sent out to her in order  so that she could  see what 
was outstanding on the mortgage.
While I do appreciate this might have been confusing  for Miss E, the statements were  
correct when they were  sent out. And the call notes I have seen from GE Money do confirm  
that they were  having system  issues  at the time that Miss E wanted to make  a payment to 
her mortgage account  which they did inform her of. Miss E was able to redeem her 
mortgage on the following day. The mortgage was redeemed at the end of March  2016.
I appreciate this would  have  been frustrating for Miss E, as she would have wanted to make  
a payment to her mortgage account.  But GE Money have acknowledged this and have  
offered her £25 for the inconvenience that she was caused at that time.  I think this is fair and 
reasonable so I wont be asking  GE Money to offer anything further to Miss E. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7162624