K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) did not make appropriate 
checks before lending him money.
background
Mr M borrowed £500 from Mr Lender  on 27 June 2013. £675 was due to be repaid on 26 
July 2013. Mr M finally settled the loan on 31 Jan 2014.
Mr M says Mr Lender should have carried out better  checks  to confirm affordability and 
should have realised from his repayment  history that he was in financial difficulty. He says 
he had to take out additional short-term loans to make the repayments.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr M about his income, verified his employment and checked his 
credit record. It says none of the checks indicated Mr M was struggling  financially. However,  
when Mr M missed the repayment  due in July 2013,  Mr Lender says Mr M made contact and 
said he was in financial difficulty. Mr Lender  says it set up a repayment plan which enabled 
Mr M to repay the loan on 31 January 2014,  receiving a discount of £201.25 in the process.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although she wasnt 
satisfied that Mr Lender had carried out enough  checks before approving the loan, she found 
that proportionate checks would have  shown the loan was affordable to Mr M.
Mr M says he had five other  short-term  loans when he applied for the loan with Mr Lender.  
He says he was relying  on such loans to pay essential bills and getting  further  into debt as a 
result. Mr M says other complaints have been  upheld based on the same  information.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Mr Lender on 8 April 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
I wasnt satisfied Mr Lender had done  enough checks before approving  the loan;
Because the scheduled repayment was a large  proportion of Mr Ms income, I 
considered a proportionate check should have included asking Mr M about his 
expenditure, including other short-term loans;
I found that Mr M had about £970 of regular expenditure;
He also owed at least £1,290 to four other  short-term lenders, of which  at least  £770 
was due in July 2013.
So I concluded it likely that Mr Lender would have found the loan to be unaffordable to Mr M 
had it carried out proportionate checks.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Mr Lender, my provisional decision was 
that Mr Lender should refund all interest and charges (plus 8% statutory interest)  on the loan 
and remove any associated negative  information from Mr Ms credit  file.
Mr Lender responded  to say, in summary, that the adjudicator had found the loan to be 
affordable based  on a review of Mr Ms bank statements. It said Mr M had told it, verbally, 
that he was paying no rent and had no other  credit commitments.
Ref: DRN76820612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept our adjudicator  reviewed Mr Ms bank statements and found the loan to be 
affordable, however, following  a further review,  Mr M says a regular £600  payment  was rent. 
This was not included  in the original  analysis so this, plus the other  outstanding short-term  
lending, means  the Mr Lender  repayment was unaffordable to Mr M.
Mr Lender now says it did ask Mr M about  his expenditure and has sent a copy of the call. I 
have listened  to the call, and Mr M does indeed confirm he spends nothing  on rent, credit 
commitments or any other outgoings.  But on the call, Mr M also says his monthly income is 
£900. So even  if Mr Lender accepts Mr M has no regular expenditure, I consider it still 
needed to do better  checks given the £675 repayment is such a high proportion of this 
income.
As such,  I find Mr Lender should have carried out a full financial review  and should have 
asked Mr M specifically about other short-term loans. Had it done so, it would  have found  Mr 
M owed at least £770 to other short-term lenders in July 2013 and that his regular 
expenditure was significantly  higher than the zero hed declared.
As this means the loan was still unaffordable,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) 
should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr M paid on the loan;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about the loan from Mr Ms credit  file.
Ref: DRN76820613*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7682061