K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Swiss Re International SE dealt with her claims under an 
Equine insurance policy.
background
I sent the parties a provisional decision in late January 2019. I explained why I was minded 
to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and require Swiss Re International SE to do the following;
Deal with the issues as two separate claims
oGastric Ulcer
oLameness hind and fore legs
The remaining terms of the policy apply to both claims including  policy  claim limits
If Mrs C has paid for treatment that would  be covered under either of these claims,  then 
Swiss must refund (on receipt  of evidence of payment)  up to the policy limit 
Swiss must add simple interest  at 8% per year from the date Mrs C paid the amounts to 
the date Swiss issues the refund
Pay Mrs C £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I detailed the background  to the complaint  as follows;
Mrs C asked a vet to examine her horse as it was showing  some issues. Shortly  after,  the 
vet diagnosed a gastric  ulcer and issues with the fore and hind legs. Mrs C submitted claims 
for treatment costs but Swiss limited  her to one claim  and so a limit of £5,000 applied. Swiss 
relied on the policy wording that allowed it to treat as one claim lameness of more than one 
limb, or a set of symptoms reported at the same time or in one incident, even where there 
were different diagnoses of separate conditions.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but thought Swiss had acted within  the 
policy terms and so didnt  recommend that it had to do anything  else.  Mrs C was unhappy 
and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
For the sake of clarity Mrs C has raised  an issue about the sale of the policy and that is 
being investigated as a complaint against the firm that sold the policy. This complaint 
concerns the settlement of claims and this is the responsibility of the insurer,  in this case, 
Swiss. And so Ill deal only with the claims issues.
And I explained my provisional findings as follows;
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im mindful of Swiss  duty to handle claims promptly and fairly and not unreasonably reject a 
claim. The policy wording  does allow Swiss  to do what it has done but I think the strict 
application, in all the circumstances of this case,  leads to an unfair and unreasonable 
outcome.
Lameness is generic  and broad and could simply be said to emanate  from pain. The 
diagnoses of Mrs Cs horses problems demonstrated unlinked  issues  a gastric ulcer  and 
leg problems. Had Mrs C reported leg problems but the gastric ulcer was diagnosed at a 
Ref: DRN73221512subsequent examination its likely that they wouldnt be caught by the strict application of the 
policy wording. Given  this and the materially different and independent  conditions  Im 
satisfied that, in this case, Swiss  should  deal with them  separately  as two claims and so two 
limits apply. 
Ive thought carefully about the fact that the hind leg issue  is different  to the fore leg issue.  
I am satisfied that fairness is achieved here by dealing with them  under one claim. The legs 
as body parts are inextricably linked; the problems with the legs were  diagnosed at or 
around the same time but after the initial examination and investigation  into lameness. And 
because of the inextricable link as body  parts, the timings involved and being part of the 
same veterinary investigation, Im satisfied  its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to 
deal with as one claim.
Mrs C has suffered distress and inconvenience  as a result of the unfair way that Swiss dealt 
with her claims. Shes  had to be careful about  treatment plans that fall within her financial 
capacity and shes been worried about  decisions she had to make about  the future of the 
horse. Im satisfied that £150  is fair compensation in all the circumstances.
replies
The investigator has asked Swiss  whether it has a response to my provisional decision but I 
havent seen one despite the deadline passing. Mrs C has replied and provided further 
information. Ive taken this into account  and would summarise it as follows;
A vets report commenting on the leg issues
Mrs C maintains the policy  was mis-sold
The claims should be separated as;
oUlcers
oFront  legs
oHind legs
A loss of use element  should be added given the time taken
The excess fees should  be waived  as a form of compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at everything again and taken into account Mrs Cs reply  Im not persuaded to 
reach a different outcome.  The vets report was already available to me and I had already 
considered its contents. 
The policy wording allowed Swiss to treat the lameness and ulcers as one claim even 
though more than one limb and more than diagnoses; and it can treat as one claim a set of 
symptoms reported  at the same time or in one incident, even where there  were  different 
diagnoses of separate  conditions.  
What I remain convinced  of is that in Mrs Cs circumstances this wording leads  to a 
disproportionate and unfair outcome given the completely unlinked nature between  the 
gastric ulcer  and the leg issues.  I acknowledged  the difference in diagnoses between the 
fore and hind legs. But Im not persuaded that fairness in this case  is achieved by separating 
out the legs as different claims for the reason explained in my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN73221513my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Swiss Re International SE to do the following;
Deal with the issues as two separate claims
oGastric Ulcer
oLameness hind and fore legs
The remaining terms of the policy apply to both claims including  policy  claim limits
If Mrs C has paid for treatment that would  be covered under either of these claims,  then 
Swiss must refund the amounts  paid (on receipt of evidence of payment) up to the policy  
limit 
Swiss must add simple interest  at 8% per year from the date Mrs C paid the amounts to 
the date Swiss issues the refund
Pay Mrs C £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7322151