K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2005 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy was part of a packaged protection plan called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). The TMPP included a critical illness policy and a life insurance policy  as well as the 
PPI policy. In this decision  Ive only considered Mr Ws complaint about  the PPI policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £138.85  a month towards  Mr Ws mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £8.25 a month. 
BoS has provided screenshots from its computer systems showing that Mr W made a 
successful unemployment  claim for £1,624.14 in 2010 and a successful sickness  claim 
(relating to depression)  in 2012  for £771.61.  The combined amount paid on these  claims 
was significantly in excess  of the total amount Mr W paid for his PPI policy whilst it was in 
force.
At the time of the sale, Mr H was employed as a criminal justice  worker.  He has told us he 
was entitled to at least  6 months sick pay should  he be unable to work. Mr W has also told 
us hed receive a redundancy  payment if he lost his job. Mr W has said he had suffered from 
back pain and depression before he took out the policy. 
BoS has provided evidence to show that Mr Ws mortgage was a regulated  one.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws representative 
believes there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr W about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN76530722The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in October 2005  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN76530723Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN76530724-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and BoS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
Did Mr W know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS hasnt got copies  of all Mr Ws paperwork from the time of the sale.  Thats  not 
altogether surprising as businesses  arent required to keep such documents for this length of 
time. But Ive seen a copy of Mr Ws mortgage  offer which clearly shows  PPI as an optional 
product that Mr W doesnt need  to take.  And Ive also seen a letter sent to Mr W after his 
meeting with the BoS adviser  which thanks him for choosing to take out the PPI policy.  
Theres also a copy of the Demands and Needs Statement the adviser completed which  I 
think makes it reasonably clear that the PPI policy being recommended  is optional.
So, taking everything  into account  including  what I know  more  generally about BoS normal 
sales process for branch mortgage PPI sales - I think its more likely than not that Mr W 
knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide  advice?
Both BoS and Mr W agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr W with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN76530725the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr W. The adviser had information  about some  of Mr Ws financial circumstances as part of 
the mortgage application. But although a demands  and needs statement was completed  to 
try and establish whether Mr W had a need for the policy  by asking questions about  wider 
circumstances such as any health  issues and existing means  I dont think it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because the questions BoS recorded as having  been 
answered by Mr W on the statement dont fully cover all the various  limitations and 
exclusions in the policy which  might have affected  his ability to make a successful claim  on 
it.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr W given  his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ws ability to continue to 
meet his mortgage  repayments would have been  put under strain  if he was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the benefits he says he 
would have been entitled to from his employer.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr W has told us about  
the back problems  and depression he suffered before taking out the policy.  But I 
dont think Ive seen  anything to show these medical conditions would have made  the 
policy unsuitable for him, because  it was most likely that these  would be the cause  of 
any claims he made under the policy being  unsuccessful under the relevant 
limitations and exclusions  in the policy. I think Mr W could still have found the policy  
of benefit to him, notwithstanding the exclusions  and limitations in it, as demonstrated  
by the successful claims he made on it - including a sickness  claim relating to 
depression.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr W sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
Ref: DRN76530726have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr W would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr W agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr W all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr W? To what  extent did Mr W suffer  loss or 
damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for him.
Ref: DRN76530727In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mr W would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken  out the policy  in any 
event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr W knew he would have to pay something  
for the policy, I dont  think I can be sure that BoS told him the exact premium at the point 
Mr W applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr W would have been told the 
cost before the policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs 
were significantly  at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might 
have raised that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr W would have found the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, I dont  think I can be sure that BoS made clear exactly  what  Mr W would get 
back in return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ws 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet his mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than he would have  expected as the cover provided  exceeded his standard monthly 
mortgage repayment at the start of the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
In certain circumstances, the policy excluded claims  relating to medical conditions 
that Mr W knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the 
policy; 
Ref: DRN76530728The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr W was eligible for the policy and its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  could  have proved 
valuable to him should the insured risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr W was likely  to have been  caught by any of the significant 
exclusions  Mr W was in permanent employment. And although he says he had some pre-
existing medical conditions at the time he took out the policy,  I dont  think  these conditions 
would have meant that the policy wouldnt have been of benefit to him. I still think he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out and wouldnt have been deterred from doing so by 
the exclusion relating to pre-existing  medical conditions.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking out the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job and 
any paid work he might  reasonably become qualified  for, it might have played into his 
thinking about what he would have done.  And I accept it may have given him pause  for 
thought  although its possible he may not have  been overly  concerned  given that if he was 
unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able 
to take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr W that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month period.  
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months  
was a longer period than Mr W would have received full sick pay for. And his entitlement to 
redundancy is also likely to have been lower than this.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr W would  still have  thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
Ref: DRN76530729at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure his home was not placed at risk and might potentially  
help preserve Mr Ws sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr W 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representative says the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Ref: DRN765307210BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
October 2005 when  providing information  about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr W and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7653072