K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU)s handling of her Buildings Insurance claim.
Any references to NFU also include their agents.
background
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point  that has been  made.  This decision, and my findings,  refer to 
events up to NFU issuing a final response  letter to Mrs H in October 2018.
Mrs H had planning in place to convert  her property into five separate properties she intends 
to rent. In February 2017 she made  a claim because  of cracks in the wall. NFU sent 
someone to inspect the property and they said the likely cause of the damage was 
subsidence resulting from defective drains.
Further inspections were  carried out by NFU in July 2017, and the claim was accepted  in 
September 2017. NFU initially issued a report in November 2017 indicating  work would 
begin to repair the damage inside the property  in March 2018.  But it didnt  and in April 
2018 NFU said it would need to revisit  Mrs Hs property to draw  up the scope of work 
needed.
NFU said the scope of work was submitted around May 2018,  but it was later discovered 
incorrect information had been submitted in parts of the report. It was resubmitted in August 
2018.  
In October  2018 Mrs H raised  a complaint with NFU. She was unhappy with the progress of 
her claim and the communication shed  received  from NFU. She said the delays in the work 
being completed was preventing work to convert  her property into flats commencing  so 
she was losing income shed receive from the rent.
NFU said there had been delays in progressing Mrs Hs claim   and they had been  slow in 
authorising work to be completed. They offered Mrs H £200  compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. Mrs H was unhappy with this, so she brought  her complaint to our 
service.
Our Investigator  recommended we uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She said there were times 
when the progress of the claim couldve been faster, and the communication from NFU to 
Mrs H couldve  been better. She said although she understood the inconvenience this 
caused, she wasnt persuaded  Mrs H had suffered a loss of earnings through potential rental 
income.
She recommended NFU pay Mrs H £500  compensation.
NFU accepted our Investigators recommendation. 
Ref: DRN79116902Mrs H didnt agree with our Investigator.  She reiterated her points about the service shed 
received from NFU  and the delays had been caused by unreasonable errors from them. 
Mrs H didnt agree the compensation  offered was sufficient. She said the work to convert her 
property into flats wouldve taken  six months   and if NFU hadnt  caused the delays shed 
have been able to rent the property earlier, so had lost income  as a result.
The complaint has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs H has strong  views about what has happened,  and shes provided several 
submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and considered  carefully. My decision 
focuses on what I consider to be the central  issues, and not all the points raised, so I hope  
she wont take this as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point the parties  have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs H and 
NFU and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case.
Having done so, Im upholding  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
NFU accept they have  caused avoidable  delays and have been slow in authorising  work   
and I can see there  were several  times  when  this was the case. 
For example, Mrs H was initially told work  would  begin  in February 2018, but it didnt  as NFU 
said a scope of work  hadnt been completed. NFU said this was completed  in May 2018, 
when the work was originally scheduled to finish.  But in July 2018 they discovered it 
contained incorrect information, and it wasnt resubmitted until August 2018. I can also see 
from the claim notes provided by NFU that Mrs H was in contact with them during this time 
chasing updates.
I can appreciate Mrs Hs frustration. The work  being  put back meant Mrs H had to postpone 
planned conversion work to her property and I can see at the time Mrs H made  her 
complaint, she still hadnt received a new commencement date for the work to be completed.  
So taking this into consideration  I think NFU should pay Mrs H £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs H has said the delays  caused  by NFU has resulted in her losing rental income.  She said 
her builder wouldve  finished all work  within six months and wouldve got guaranteed income 
through an agent if they were unable  to find tenants. 
Although I can appreciate  Mrs Hs comments, its not uncommon for building work to run 
over the initial  estimated  time as there  are a number of factors  that can affect  this. So 
although I can see NFU have caused delays,  Im not persuaded the conversion would have 
been finished on time and the new properties  fully tenanted
Ref: DRN79116903I also cant see anything to show any tenants  were lined up to move into the property when 
the work  was finished  or that any agreement had been made with an agent guaranteeing  
income from a particular date. So I make  no award of loss of earnings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
To put things right, The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited  should  
pay Mrs H £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7911690