K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that she wasnt  able to take advantage of Nationwide Building Societys 
Price Promise Personal Loan  Guarantee  (loan  guarantee) and that she was given 
misleading information when she asked about it. 
background
After successfully applying for a loan with another provider, Mrs H noticed  Nationwide had a 
loan guarantee  on its website.  She went on to call Nationwide in October 2018 and 
discussed her options. 
During this call Mrs H was incorrectly  told she could  take advantage  of the loan guarantee 
because she was still in the 14 day cooling off period for her other loan. As a result,  Mrs H 
visited her local branch but was told she wasnt eligible for the guarantee. 
Mrs H didnt take out a personal loan with Nationwide as she wasnt  able to take advantage 
of the loan guarantee. Shed like Nationwide to cover the difference in interest rates  shes  
paid. Nationwide  offered Mrs H £100  as an apology for providing incorrect  information but 
didnt agree to refund  the additional interest  shell pay during the loan term. 
Mrs H referred  her complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at it. Whilst agreeing 
Nationwide had given  Mrs H some  incorrect information, they didnt recommend it pay her 
the interest difference or increase its award. Mrs H remains unhappy so her complaints 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mrs Hs call with Nationwide from October 2018  and I agree with her that she 
was incorrectly led to believe that she would be allowed to apply for a loan and take 
advantage of the loan guarantee to reduce her rate. I know Mrs H is upset  that this call 
wasnt made available to her earlier. And whilst I agree that wouldve been better, it hasnt 
harmed her complaint  as Ive now been able to listen to what  was said.  
In this case, Mrs H was incorrectly told that once she received the written  terms of her new 
loan she could take them into a Nationwide branch and take advantage of the loan 
guarantee. I know Mrs H wants Nationwide to be bound by its error but I dont  think  thats 
fair. Whilst  I would expect a business  to look at any errors its made  and try to put things 
right I wouldnt expect  it to be bound by a genuine mistake. Ive listened to the call and Im 
satisfied the call handler gave incorrect information  in error. 
As a service  we look to put consumers back into the position they wouldve been in had no 
error occurred. In this case, if Mrs H had been  given  the correct information  when  she called 
shed have been told that she wasnt eligible for the loan guarantee and wouldnt have 
visited a branch to make  an application. 
So the correct  position here is that Mrs H wasnt eligible for the loan guarantee when she 
called in October 2018 because her other loan funds had already been  released to her. 
Ref: DRN72973282I can see there was some  inconvenience  to Mrs H by being given the wrong information  
she had to make an unnecessary visit to a branch. And I appreciate  how frustrating it is to be 
given incorrect information.  I now need  to decide whether Nationwides  offer to resolve  
Mrs Hs complaint is fair. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mrs H and Nationwide have told us in bringing  this 
complaint. I appreciate Mrs H wants Nationwide  to cover her loan interest but, for the 
reasons Ive given  above, I dont think that would be fair. Nationwides  offered £100 to 
resolve the complaint and Im satisfied that fairly reflects the impact  of its error on Mrs H and 
is fair in all the circumstances. As Nationwide have made a fair offer to resolve Mrs Hs 
complaint Im not telling  it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £100  
Nationwide Building  Society has already offered Mrs H. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7297328