K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms P took out the policy in September 2004 during a phone  call.
Ms P cancelled the PPI in February  2005. During  the time she had PPI she paid £9.52 in 
total in premiums and interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms P disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms P says that no information was disclosed  about  the PPI and it was attached to the credit 
card account  without her knowledge or consent. But the sale was a long time ago and so I 
have considered how this may have affected  Ms Ps recollection of events. Ms P applied  for 
the credit  card by post and did not take out the PPI at that time. It was when she rang to 
activate the card that she was sold the policy. Looking at the call script, on balance I am 
satisfied that the adviser would have made it clear that the policy was optional.  It seems to 
me that Ms P probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have  to, even if she no 
longer remembers doing  so.
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Ms P, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Ms P with enough information for her to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Ms P would  only have  received statutory sick pay if she was unable to work  due to illness.  
And she didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think  the policy 
could have provided a useful benefit  to her at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much  information about  the policy as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Ms P wasnt  affected by any of 
those things. As I think that she had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms P because: 
When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms P about  
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Ms P, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN79851412To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7985141