K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) mis-sold  him mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Because the facts and circumstances leading up to this complaint were set out clearly by the 
adjudicator and theyre not disputed, Ive given a brief background here.
In 1993, in what appears to have been a branch meeting, Mr E applied for and took out a 
mortgage. At the same time PPI was taken out to protect his mortgage  payments in the 
event he couldnt  work  because  of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
The policy was a regular  premium policy (monthly) and it cost under £30 a month.
In 2000 Mr E applied  for a further advance to his mortgage to enable him to carry out home  
improvements. At this stage Mr E was asked if he wanted PPI to support his borrowing.  It 
appears his PPI policy continued   I will come  back  to this later on.
BOI has provided records to show that Mr Es mortgage account closed in 2011.
The adjudicator partially upheld Mr Es complaint. They said that in 1993  BOI didnt give Mr 
E a fair choice  about  PPI  he had to tick a box to say he didnt want PPI. So given this, it 
wasnt clear that Mr E had properly  agreed  to take it out. But in 2000 when Mr E borrowed 
more money, the paperwork shows he was given  a choice, so they didnt  uphold  this part of 
his complaint.
BOS disagrees  it says Mr E did choose to take out PPI. The complaint therefore comes to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided to partially  uphold  Mr Es complaint  I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions  
and I think theyve set out the position  clearly.  I will explain  my reasoning below.
sale of PPI in 1993
BOI needed to ensure it was made clear to Mr E that he had a choice about  PPI and BOI 
says it did this.
BOI has provided a copy of Mr Es mortgage application from 1993. I can see here on the 
last page there is a section headed  Payment Protection With Incomesure. It says:
Mortgage payment  insurance against loss of income following unemployment, accident and 
sickness will automatically be arranged for you. Full details of the scheme  can be found  in 
the enclosed leaflet.
Ref: DRN75978012If you do not wish Incomesure to be automatically  arranged please mark this box with an X.
So, on this basis it seems  Mr E had to mark a box to say that he didnt want  PPI  otherwise 
it was going to be automatically arranged. I dont think  this fairly and reasonably constitutes 
giving Mr E a clear choice  about  PPI. And a blank box on an application  albeit  signed  at 
the end - in my view doesnt fairly and reasonably demonstrate Mr E agreed to PPI.
Im also mindful in Mr Es particular case that the mortgage application was typed  or printed 
 not handwritten where Mr E (or the representative  of the business) is completing it section 
by section. So I dont  know how the PPI section  was covered and introduced with Mr E. But 
on the basis that the application says it was going to be automatically included,  its possible 
he was told by the representative  at the time that PPI was automatically included  or (as Mr E 
says) told that he had to have it  at least thats what  Mr E believed  to be the case.
BOI says Mr E is mistaken and hes talking about  the high lending  fee  he was charged this 
because of the amount of money  he was borrowing against the value  of the property  he was 
looking to buy. I accept this is possible.  But given what  the application says about PPI being 
automatically included,  I think more likely than not Mr E believed  PPI was necessary.
BOI says the sale was carried  out on an advised  basis where it recommended  the policy as 
being suitable. It says Mr E completed a separate  application  form for PPI too. 
But this isnt a complaint  about Mr E not knowing he had PPI  these two things well may 
undermine a complaint about that. This issue here is about  whether BOI gave Mr E a clear 
choice about PPI and whether it can demonstrate that he most likely agreed to it 
understanding he had a choice. And based on the evidence Ive seen and set out above, Im 
not persuaded Mr E was given a fair choice  or that he fairly and reasonably  agreed  to it 
knowing this.
So while PPI might have  been optional as BOI says  I dont  think  the evidence in this 
particular case shows this was made  clear  to Mr E or that he understood this. As a result  I 
dont think BOI treated  Mr E fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with him, so I uphold this 
part of the complaint.
sale of PPI in 2000
BOI has also provided a copy  of the further advance application  from the time. And here Mr 
E was asked  if he wanted PPI  there were two options Yes and No. Mr Es application 
has a tick in the Yes  box. He also signed the application and declaration,  so Im satisfied at 
this point he chose  and agreed to have PPI.
Theres nothing about Mr Es circumstances at the time which meant  it wasnt  right or 
appropriate for him  for example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the cover; he had a need for cover; and it seems to have  been affordable  at the time.
So even if BOI didnt do all that it fairly and reasonably should have done when it sold PPI to 
Mr E in 2000, for the reasons Ive given  above, I dont think Mr E would have been put off 
taking out the cover  had BOI done anything more.
Ref: DRN75978013Looking at the further lending application  again,  I can that underneath where Mr E indicated 
Yes to wanting PPI, the name  of Mr Es current PPI insurer has been written in the section  I 
already have cover in place.
Because of this its not entirely  clear what was intended  that is whether Mr E should have a 
new PPI policy with an increased level of cover  to include the new borrowing: had an 
amendment to his existing policy to cater for the increased borrowing; or if he was happy for 
the current policy to remain  at the same  level. But from what Mr E has said about  his PPI 
premiums still being  taken after this point and at the same rate, it appears that his existing 
policy and its original  level of cover continued.
But regardless of what was supposed  to happen, Im satisfied  Mr E chose and agreed to 
have PPI with his mortgage  and that it was suitable  for him at this point in time. And given Mr 
E didnt  make a claim on the policy, even if he thinks he was under insured for the period up 
until his mortgage  account closed in 2011 (an amendment should have taken place)  hes not 
lost out.
So I dont  uphold this part of Mr Es complaint.
putting things right
Given my findings above, I think fair compensation is to refund the premiums Mr E paid from 
the start of the policy in 1993 to the point  he explicitly agreed to PPI (whether this should  
have been a new policy taken out or a continuation  of his existing policy) in July 2000.
This means  BOI should:
Pay Mr E the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BOI to take off tax from this interest. BOI must give Mr E 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
BOI has already paid Mr E back some of the money he paid for PPI in relation  to high 
commission. BOI can take this into account when calculating the above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to partially uphold  this complaint and I direct 
Bank of Ireland  Plc to pay Mr E compensation as Ive set out above. I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7597801