K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about an application for a mortgage Mrs T and Miss T made  to Barclays  
Bank UK PLC in 2018 for a new buy-to-let purchase. Theyre unhappy with how Barclays  
handled the application, which was turned  down  on affordability grounds. 
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mrs T and Miss T when my 
decision is published.
This is one of a number  of linked complaints involving other family members. Each one has 
been considered separately and discretely  from the others. However, all of the complaints 
arise from a common set of circumstances, and turn on much the same arguments and 
evidence. For that reason,  the decisions also, to some degree,  share  a narrative and 
structure. But my conclusions on each relate solely to that case.
Barclays had already looked at the complaint, but had done so in tandem with all the other 
complaints. It had admitted mis-handling the applications and had offered compensation, but 
on an aggregate basis to settle all of the complaints. 
Our investigator has looked at each one individually, and in this specific case, recommended  
Barclays pay Mrs T and Miss T £250 compensation for their time and trouble. But he 
explained that it wasnt his role to say Barclays should have lent to them. Barclays  had a 
regulatory duty to assess  affordability, and he was satisfied Barclays had discharged that 
duty fairly.
Mrs T and Miss T have  asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  but it 
seems thats not because  they think the recommended compensation is inadequate or that 
they disagree with the investigators  comments about the lending decision.  Rather,  theyre 
concerned that a recording (or alternatively a transcript) of a two-hour telephone 
conversation held with the bank in 2018 isnt available.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us. 
Ref: DRN75007242Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  On that point, its for me to decide  if the 
evidence I have is enough to allow me to reach a fair conclusion. 
Im aware Mrs T and Miss T have concerns about  what has happened to the records  of a 
phone call, and the potential implications  for their personal data. Matters  of data protection 
generally are for the Information  Commissioners  Office  to deal with; the exception would be 
if I considered the missing evidence  essential to my reaching a fair conclusion to the 
complaint before me.
Im satisfied thats not the case here, because the underlying complaint isnt in dispute. 
Barclays has admitted having  mis-handled the application and offered redress.  That being  
so, all Id normally need decide here is whether the compensation  of £250 proposed by our 
investigator is fair in all the circumstances (as they relate to this specific complaint). But 
given Mrs T and Miss T havent disagreed with that proposal, I dont even need to do that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  In full and final settlement, I 
direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs T and Miss T £250 compensation. I make no other 
order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7500724