K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about charges   which he says were unfair  being  applied to his 
credit card account, which he says contributed to the account being  closed.  Hes also 
complained that Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) offset  compensation for a PPI 
complaint against  the credit card balance, instead  of paying it to him personally. He says 
hed settled the debt on the card and the account was closed.
background 
Mr S took out a credit card with Capital One in 1999 which  had a credit limit of £3,000. 
During 2012 Mr S began to miss some  payments  and incurred late payment charges on his 
account. These fees  and lack of payments   meant the card then exceeded the credit  limit 
and further fees were  applied. By March  2013 Capital One had declared  a default on the 
account with a balance of £3,338.96.
In 2014 Mr S made some payments to the account  which by then had been taken over by 
a third party. But in January  2015  a partial  settlement figure  was agreed and the account 
was closed. 
In November 2017 Mr S made a complaint about the sale of PPI that he says was part of his 
credit card. His complaint was upheld and compensation  was paid, but Capital One applied  
the compensation to the outstanding balance that remained on the credit  card account. 
Mr S then complained to Capital One about  the fees that had been applied to his account 
throughout the time it had been active. But he also complained that it was unfair for Capital 
One to have applied these charges and then to have applied  the refund it gave him to the 
account as well. He said it wasnt fair to have been overcharged and for his refund to be 
used to clear those charges.
Capital One didnt uphold Mr S complaint because it said the fees had all been  applied 
correctly and in line with its terms and conditions. So, unhappy with the response Mr S 
brought his complaint to us.  
One of investigators  looked into the complaint and initially said it shouldnt be upheld. In 
summary he said:
The fees Capital  One charged didnt seem unreasonable and he thought they were 
applied correctly.
Capital One did try to discuss the non-payment  issue with Mr S  and issued an 
income and expenditure from that wasnt returned. So it was reasonable that Capital 
One defaulted the account sometime later. 
Although the fees Capital One added to the card meant  the credit limit was 
exceeded, the fees were applied because Mr S had missed  or made late 
payments.
Mr S didnt agree. He said Capital One hadnt  provided all the available evidence  available  
and therefore  we should look into the matter further.  Further evidence  was provided about 
the PPI compensation payment and the investigator thought that the complaint should be 
upheld in part. Although he said Capital One was entitled to pay the redress  to the credit  
card  there  was no evidence that Capital One had made Mr S aware that the account was 
Ref: DRN77891362only partially settled  and he said Capital One should pay Mr S £150  for that lack of 
communication.
Mr S said the compensation suggested was insufficient and asked for the matter  to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Therefore the complaint has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr S feels very strongly that Capital One should  personally pay him the PPI 
redress instead of using it to reduce the outstanding  balance on his partially  settled credit  
card account. And that some of the fees he was charged on the card  before it was closed 
 were unreasonable. And I have some  sympathy for Mr S position as Im sure he would 
have expected to have  received the redress having  assumed  his credit card account  to be 
closed.
But I think Capital One has acted fairly  over the charges  that were applied  to the account  
and I agree with the investigator  that Capital One was entitled to use the PPI redress  to 
reduce the credit card debt, but it could have better communicated the situation regarding 
the balance. I know this outcome will disappoint  Mr S, so Ill explain my reasoning.   
The account  charges and default
Ive seen how Mr S credit  card account  was well maintained until July 2012 when two 
significant transactions occurred. After that point Ive seen how Mr S didnt meet his 
contractual payments and from October 2012  made no payments at all. And theres no 
evidence that he did contact Capital One to discuss the matter  even though  Capital One has 
demonstrated that it did try to contact Mr S.
I would have expected Capital One to treat Mr S situation positively and sympathetically 
when it became aware he wasnt making  payments. And I think  it did by writing to him and 
setting out his alternatives including a self-help pack, from which  he could choose an 
repayment arrangement  and return the necessary documents so Capital One could  look at 
his financial position.  As it didnt receive  a response to that request I think  it was inevitable  
that Capital One would have had to start the process of trying  to recover  the money leading 
to the account  being  registered as defaulted some months later. So I dont think  Capital  One 
has done anything  wrong there and I think its acted reasonably.
Capital Ones credit card terms and conditions state that late or failure to pay default sums 
and overlimit default  sums incur a charge of £12 and that missing payments could have 
severe consequences and make  obtaining credit more difficult  and I note the monthly 
statements Mr S was sent, set out the amount of each charge applicable for each time he 
missed or was late with payments.
So, Im satisfied that Capital One did explain what charges could be incurred for late 
payments and exceeding the credit limit  and I can see from the statements that the 
charges were applied  correctly. Ive also considered what the Office of Fair Trading said in 
Ref: DRN77891363April 2006 about  credit card providers   setting charges in order  to meet the fairness test 
under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
While it didnt say specifically what a fair charge might be. It did say it wouldnt take further 
action if charges were  set below £12. Capital One set its charges  at £12, so I think  the 
charges were fair in Mr S situation.
PPI compensation  payment
When Mr S agreed to partially  settle  his outstanding  credit card balance in 2015,  the full 
amount of the debt was still outstanding. Its just that Capital One accepted an amount  that 
was less than this to draw  a line under the matter. But its a general principle that a business 
is entitled to use any redress against  a partially  settled debt as long as its due to that 
account. In this case the PPI had been  part of the credit card Mr S held. So Capital One was 
entitled to put Mr S back into the same position  he would have been in had the PPI not been 
taken out in the first place  and this meant  applying any redress to the outstanding balance.
So Im satisfied that Capital One was entitled  to do what it did and I dont think it did anything 
wrong there.  
But I think Mr S should have been  made aware  that his account was partially settled in 2015  
 and Capital  One hasnt  been able to demonstrate that Mr S was given confirmation about 
what had happened  and what future  options he might have. And Capital One has accepted  
the letter may not have been  sent. I think this would have raised  Mr S expectations of the 
debt being settled and the account completely closed and I think this had some impact on 
him when  the PPI redress was used to reduce the debt. In the circumstances I think this 
would have caused Mr S some degree  of distress  and inconvenience and I think the award 
of £150 for the distress  caused is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ultimately here I think Capital One has applied charges to Mr S account  fairly and line with 
its terms and conditions.  Its unfortunate  the charges contributed to Mr S credit limit being 
exceeded and eventual default  of the account,  but I cant safely say thats Capital  Ones 
fault. And following a partial settlement of the account I think Capital One was entitled  to 
offset the redress as it did here, but it should  have made Mr S aware of that fact by writing  to 
him when  the account was partially settled  and should pay some compensation for that 
lack of communication.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold Mr S complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc in so 
far as it should pay him £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN77891364ombudsman
Ref: DRN7789136