K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Miss P complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont  accept their 
Buildmark building warranty  claim for dampness near the windows in their new-build flat. 
background
Mr E and Miss P moved into their newly  built flat in November 2015. It came with a 10-year 
NHBC Buildmark building warranty. In April 2018,  Mr E and Miss P reported to NHBC that 
there were patches of dampness near the windows  in their newly  built flat.  
NHBC appointed  a claims inspector to visit the property,  inspect  the damage and report on 
whether it was covered by the warranty. He noted the dampness but reported  that this was 
being caused by condensation, the effects of which  were excluded  from cover under the 
warranty so he didnt  recommend that Mr E and Miss Ps claim was accepted. 
Unhappy with NHBCs decision, Mr E and Miss P complained to NHBC. It issued its final 
response letter in October  2018. It referred to its claims inspectors report  and said that 
condensation wasnt covered by the warranty unless it was the result of the builder failing to 
meet NHBC requirements. It said that it hadnt identified  any such  failure  by the builder so it 
was satisfied that its claim decision had been correctly  made.  
NHBC also said that whilst the issue had been  considered under Section 3 of the Buildmark  
warranty, it noted that a very similar issue had been  reported by Mr E and Miss P previously 
and considered under the Resolution Service  provided  by Section 2 (the builders liability 
period) of the warranty. It noted that the beads  of condensation forming then were also 
considered to be condensation and, as such (under the warranty  terms) needed  to first be 
referred back to the builder to consider. NHBC said if any additional  information  came to light 
it would  happily review  its decision. 
In January 2019 Mr E and Miss P instructed an expert to report  on the issues  they were 
having with their windows. He concluded that the mould appearing on the internal  window  
reveals was being  drawn in through the ends of the external sill that hadnt  been sealed to 
the brickwork where  the top of the sill met the bottom of the window frame. He concluded  
that the only way to cure the issue was to remove the affected  windows  and seal the ends  of 
the sill to the brickwork to prevent moisture ingress.  
Mr E and Miss P sent this new information  to NHBC. It reviewed the report and told them  
that it remained unable  to consider their claim further because the warranty didnt provide 
cover for windows and doors including any issues with installation. It said that the window 
and door manufacturer that installed the windows would most  likely have provided a 
separate guarantee which the builder should have  a record of. It suggested they contact the 
builder to obtain a copy  of any certificate that had been issued to see if it was still valid. 
Unhappy with NHBCs decision, Mr E and Miss P complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into their complaint but, taking into account the terms and conditions  for 
the warranty, didnt  think NHBC  had unreasonably  or unfairly declined to accept their claim.
Mr E and Miss P disagreed with our investigators findings  and raised a number of new 
matters not previously referred  to NHBC. These  included issues  with sound  insulation,  the 
mis-sale of the warranty, that NHBC regulations hadnt been  complied  with, issues  with fire 
safety and insulation. Our investigator looked  at what Mr E and Miss P had said but noted  
Ref: DRN79652002that it appeared they hadnt  raised  them as a complaint with NHBC first so itd not yet had a 
chance to consider them. Our investigator  said that we were  only able to look at the issues 
they had told us about in their complaint.
Mr E and Miss P replied to say they had mentioned the additional matters only to show  that 
the building  had been poorly constructed. They asked for their complaint  to be referred for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
Recently Mr E and Miss P have sent further documents  to this service which they say they 
would like us to consider.  These relate  to issues from December 2015 to September  2018 
which were referred to the builder in the main and were dealt with in part by a Resolution  
Report produced  under  Section 2 of the Buildmark  warranty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The warranty provided by NHBC  isnt just an insurance product. Part of the warranty 
provides for NHBC to mediate between the policyholder  and the contractor with a view to 
defects being  rectified.  Only when NHBC goes beyond that mediation, and/or in years three 
to ten of the cover when it takes on a claim for new damage, does it act as an insurer.  
That is important for the purposes of this complaint because I can only consider complaints 
about insurance activity.  So, anything that NHBC has done in its role as mediator is beyond  
my scope of review. 
With this complaint I can only look at what Mr E and Miss P complained  to NHBC  about  in 
September 2018 and which it considered in its final response letter  of October  2018.  Whilst 
Ive noted the recent information  Mr E and Miss P have sent this service, it all relates to 
issues reported to the builder in the first two years of the warranty  except for the visit (by the 
builder) in June  2018 in respect of the condensation that had been reported. And I can see 
that it wasnt until after this date that Mr E and Miss P contacted NHBC and it then sent out 
its claims inspector and accepted the claim under Section  3 of the Buildmark policy. 
So, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr E and Miss P Im unable  to look 
at this information, I cant do so for two reasons. The first is that it refers to issues  before 
NHBC could be said to be acting  as insurer and the second is, that it didnt form part of the 
complaint made to NHBC in the Autumn of 2018.  
I have to decide if NHBC has unfairly  or unreasonably declined to accept Mr E and Miss Ps 
claim for dampness around their windows. I dont  think it has. Ill explain why. 
For NHBC to accept  the claim under Section 3 it must be shown that there  is physical 
damage to the home that was caused  by a defect in a part of the property listed in the policy  
document. As the warranty states,  it doesnt provide protection  against  every event or 
circumstance, only the things outlined within it. For example, the warranty  also doesnt 
provide cover for windows and doors  only to double or triple glazed  window  or door panes  
(not the frame,  sill etc.).  And damage caused by the effects of condensation  isnt covered 
unless its the result of the builder failing to meet NHBC requirements; I cant see that any 
failure of NHBC requirements  has been identified.  
Ref: DRN79652003So, the only part of a window and door that is covered  by Section 3 is the glazing part. And I 
can see from the expert report Mr E and Miss P obtained that there are no identified issues 
with the glazing. The issue is with the sealant around the sills. 
So, I dont think that NHBC  has unfairly or unreasonably declined  Mr E and Miss Ps claim. 
Having considered the terms of the warranty, I cant see that it covers the issue  they have 
reported. That is not to say I doubt  the existence  of an issue.  Clearly there is evidence about  
what is letting the moisture  into the home to cause the condensation. Unfortunately  for Mr E 
and Miss P the issue  isnt covered by the warranty. 
After our investigator issued his findings,  Mr E and Miss P replied setting out other  issues 
they have had with their home. They subsequently  said they did so to illustrate the problems  
they have had with the quality of the build and the fact NHBC didnt hold certain documents 
regarding the construction.  They also said the original contractor  by which I assume they 
meant the window contractor  has now ceased trading and that theyd  had problems with 
sound insulation  in their flat. And they said the warranty had been mis-sold.
I can see they raised a sound insulation issue within the first two years  of the warranty 
(during the builders liability period). I cant see that this issue has been raised under Section 
3 or that it formed part of Mr E and Miss Ps complaint  to NHBC in September 2018. So, I 
cant look at it for them here.  They would need  to raise it with NHBC first. As they would any 
mis-sale complaint or complaint about fire safety,  neither of which formed  part of their 
complaint to NHBC in September 2018  or to this service in April 2019.  
Mr E and Miss P also said that there were issues with all the flats in their block and that 
there was no documentation available to show that building  regulations had been complied 
with. They  said that NHBC had provided  building  control for the block  and they referred to 
Section 4 of the warranty, Part N  glazing in relation to impact, opening and cleaning 
(Wales only) . 
Unfortunately, that section  of the warranty doesnt cover the moisture  issue Mr E and Miss P 
are complaining about. And even if it did, their property  would need  to be located in Wales  
for them to benefit  from it. And if any common parts of the block  are affected, then all the 
property owners need to join a complaint about  them. 
I dont doubt that the issues Mr E and Miss P have  experienced  with their home have been 
stressful and upsetting for them.  But I cant reasonably  make  NHBC responsible  here for 
issues that arent covered by the warranty or which it hasnt yet had an opportunity to 
investigate for itself. It follows that I cant fairly  uphold Mr E and Miss Ps complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7965200