K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) by Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL).
FICL didnt  directly sell the PPI to Mr H  they are the insurer.  But theyve taken 
responsibility for resolving  this complaint, so I will refer to them  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mr H took out a store card in 2002. At the same  time he bought a PPI policy which  wouldve 
helped cover his repayments  on the card if he couldnt work. 
He cancelled the policy the following year. But in 2004 he was sold PPI for the card again, 
by phone.
Mr H says he felt pressured to take the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at his complaint  thought that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld in relation to the first sale, but that the second sale in 2004 should be upheld.
FICL hasnt  agreed  with the adjudicators decision,  so the case  has been  passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when reaching  my decision.  Having done  so, I agree with the adjudicator 
and uphold Mr Hs complaint about  the 2004  sale, but do not uphold his complaint about the 
2002 sale. Ill explain why.
2002 sale
Mr H took out the store  card and PPI in a clothes shop. FICL  has provided a copy of the 
credit agreement Mr H completed and I can see he had a clear  choice  about  taking the PPI. 
He signed separately for it and crossed  through other sections where  he didnt want the 
product on offer.
Mr H says he was pressured to take the PPI. But he hasnt explained what  happened to 
make him feel that way. And he acknowledges that he doesnt remember much  detail about 
the event.
So, on the evidence  available  to me, I cant safely say that Mr H was unfairly pressured to 
take the PPI. I think he bought it knowing he had a choice about it. 
FICL didnt  make a personal recommendation to Mr H about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for him. But it did need to make  sure it gave 
him all the information  he needed to make his own decision.  I dont think  FICL did this well 
enough. For example,  theres no mention of what the exact  benefits  were. 
Ref: DRN78794502But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  I have to think  about  
what he would have  done if he had received all the information he needed.
Looking at Mr Hs circumstances I dont  think more information wouldve changed his mind 
about buying it. I think its likely Mr H understood the policy would pay a benefit if he wasnt 
able to work. And as I think Mr H chose to take out the PPI, it seems  he was interested  in 
this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mr H was affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for him if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr H.
Mr H says he was entitled to some sick pay but he didnt have any other means  at his own 
disposal to meet his repayments if he wasnt working. So I think  the policy offered Mr H a 
useful benefit.
So, on balance, in relation to the 2002  sale, I dont  think Mr H lost out as a result of anything  
FICL did wrong.
2004 sale
Mr H cancelled his 2002 policy  in 2003. But in 2004 Mr H was re-sold the PPI.
FICL has been very inconsistent with its explanation about what happened, but it seems 
likely the PPI was sold over the phone.  Again, FICL had a duty to explain the important 
information to Mr H. 
By 2004 the cost of the policy  had increased  by 50%, adding  purchase protection  cover  to 
the benefits. From this services understanding of how the PPI was sold over the phone it 
seems likely that the cost wasnt fully explained. For example, I dont think Mr H wouldve 
understood that the cost of the policy would be added to his account and hed pay interest  
on it; or that hed have  to keep paying  for the premiums even if he were  making  a claim.
While I didnt think the lack of information  about  the costs and benefits wouldve made a 
difference to Mr Hs decision to buy the PPI in 2002, I do think it wouldve made a difference 
to Mr H in 2004. By 2004 Mr Hs employee benefits had increased so he had more sick pay 
available to him, and his tenure was longer  so he wouldve been entitled to more redundancy 
pay. He also had some savings  by this point.
If Mr H had fully understood the costs and benefits of the policy I think  hed have decided he 
didnt need the PPI. So I think  he lost out as a result of what  FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI in 
2004. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mr H would owe on his store card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
Ref: DRN78794503So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr H owes  and what  he would  
have owed.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mr H would have owed each month without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H wouldve 
owed FICL something on his store card.  The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.FICL  should tell Mr H what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint in relation to the 2004 sale,  
but not in relation to the 2002  sale. I direct  Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  to pay 
compensation as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7879450