K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2003. Mrs K says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
When taking out the card online Mrs K had to choose whether or not she wanted PPI  
by selecting a yes or no option. So, I think Canada  Square made it clear that Mrs K 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Canada Square didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs K got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible  the information Canada Square  gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover.  
This means Canada Square doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because:  
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs K about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square  has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - including what shes said about having  life 
and critical illness cover with her mortgage.  But these points dont change my decision. 
Those policies wouldnt  have paid out in the same  circumstances as the PPI, so may not 
have helped if shed  been off sick or made redundant. 
Ref: DRN74019272my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs K any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7401927