K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that when she told American Express  Advanced  Services  Europe Limited 
(Amex) that a transaction on her account  hadnt been made by her it took eight weeks to 
refund the money.
 
background
Miss C says that she told Amex at the end of June 2018 that a payment for £434.65 wasnt 
carried out by her. She says that Amex website  says that it will resolve disputes within 24 to 
48 hours, yet it took Amex  over two months to refund  the money to her account. 
The adjudicator thought  this complaint should  be upheld. She felt that Amex  should have got 
to the root of the problem  far sooner than it did. By not doing so, it had caused Miss C 
unnecessary upset and stress.
Amex didnt agree. In summary, it said that Miss C hadnt suffered any financial impact 
because it had suspended the payment  and then refunded it in full.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Miss C contacted Amex on 29 June 2018  to tell it that she didnt make 
two payments, in euros, of £434.65  and £195.50.  Although I cant  be certain exactly  what 
was discussed  I consider  it more likely  than not that Miss C told Amex that neither she, nor 
the additional cardholder, made these payments and knew  nothing about  them  and they 
didnt let anyone  else use their cards to make them either. Whatever was discussed,  it 
seems clear  that Miss C did say that she never gave the merchants involved permission to 
take the payment.
I see that, following  that call, Amex cancelled and replaced her card,  recording this as fraud 
in its records. It suspended both payments while it attempted chargeback claims. Given the 
circumstances, I would have expected  both to be referred to Amexs fraud team and 
temporary refunds  made while Amex carried out its investigations. It did refund the smaller 
amount but didnt  treat the larger payment in the same way. I accept that Miss C didnt suffer  
any financial  loss while Amex was attempting the chargeback on the larger transaction 
because it suspended the payment. 
Amex received a defence from the merchant for the larger amount and sent the documents 
to Miss C. I find that it was quite  clear that nothing relating to the payment was in her name 
and so it was more than likely that she would  still dispute the payment. And as Amex  had 
confirmed that the other payment, made  on the same day was fraud, I consider Amex should  
have referred it to the fraud team straight  away. Its own notes in August record that a dispute 
wasnt the correct  way to deal with it. By failing  to refer it to the fraud  team, I consider Amex 
caused unnecessary  delays  in resolving this dispute.
When Miss C eventually  spoke to the fraud  team it told her that it would  credit  her account 
within 72 hours but this didnt  happen.  She had to telephone again before the refund was 
finally made a week  later.  
Ref: DRN70806962Having carefully considered the full circumstances  of this complaint, I conclude that an 
award of £150  is a fair and reasonable amount for the trouble and upset Amex has caused  
Miss C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant. I require American Express  Advanced 
Services Europe Limited to pay Miss C £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7080696