K821x#15complaint
Mr D acquired  a used car in September 2018,  by hire purchase over 48 months with 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited (SMFL). He complains that his car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. He wants SMFL to refund the expenditure he has incurred, in 
order to bring his car up to satisfactory  quality.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 18 August 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagreed with our adjudicators view 
that the complaint should be upheld. I thought  it should be upheld  in part.
Neither Mr D nor SMFL  responded to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusion reached  in my provisional decision is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Startline Motor Finance Limited to reimburse expenditure 
of £281.87 incurred by Mr D. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 December 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70632782COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
18 August 2020
complaint
Mr D acquired  a used car in September 2018,  by hire purchase over 48 months with 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited (SMFL). He complains that his car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. He wants SMFL to refund the expenditure he has incurred, in 
order to bring his car up to satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr D told us:
His car had multiple faults - he reported faults in September  and October  2018
He contacted both the supplying dealership and SMFL many times over the months 
following delivery, but he felt that neither business was listening to his concerns
Because he needed the car for his employment,  he eventually took it to a local 
garage, where a third fault was diagnosed, and a significant  component  was replaced 
He did not want to reject his car, but he did want £600 of expenditure on repairing it 
reimbursed
SMFL told us:
Mr D first complained to the dealer within  two weeks of taking delivery  the dealer 
diagnosed and repaired the fault identified by Mr D, and the complaint was closed
Mr D contacted it in late October 2018 to complain about  a second fault, a failing 
essential component,  which he had reported to the dealer  the dealer had quoted 
£300 to replace this component
During November  2018, it unsuccessfully attempted to obtain information  from Mr D 
about the second fault 
In early December 2018, it wrote  to Mr D, saying that it was unable  to uphold his 
second complaint   because he had not provided the requested information, which it 
required in order to give this matter proper consideration
Later in December 2018, Mr D contacted it again to complain about a different fault,  
which had been repaired in mid-December (but not by the dealer) at a cost of a little 
under £250   it was unable to help Mr D with this third complaint,  because he had not 
given the dealer  an opportunity to diagnose and repair  the fault
Mr D referred  his complaint to us in March 2019.  He provided additional information to us, 
including:
A statement from Mr Ds local garage  (which had repaired his car in December 2018) 
saying that, in its opinion, the faulty major component it replaced would have been 
failing for some  time,  and possibly from before the point of supply
The result  of a Car Health Check, undertaken by a different garage in early March 
2019 and costing just over £30, which indicated that the above repair had been only 
partially successful 
SMFL provided documentary evidence  to us, including  correspondence  between the dealer, 
Mr D and it. We provided to SMFL  a copy of the local garages statement.
Ref: DRN70632783Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He noted that the replaced 
component was typically supposed  to last for a cars  lifespan. He also noted that, during 
October 2018, Mr D had emailed the dealer to report car performance problems which were 
consistent with developing  failure  of the replaced  component. And so he concluded that the 
resulting fault,  caused by this component, was present or developing at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator recommended  that SMFL  should:
Reimburse all Mr Ds car repair costs (plus  interest)
Remove any adverse  information it may have  recorded on Mr Ds credit file, relating 
to his hire purchase agreement 
Pay Mr D £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had 
experienced, while trying to resolve the problems arising  from the faults exhibited by 
his car
SMFL disagreed with our adjudicator. And so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
SMFL has a responsibility to ensure  that goods  of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances,  which for 
cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits  to SMFLs responsibilities. In 
particular, faults  must  be present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr Ds car was 66 months old, and had travelled  a little over 80,000  miles,  at the point of 
supply. SMFL told us that, at the time Mr D reported his cars second  fault,  it had travelled 
another 2,000 miles. Mr Ds local garage  reported  that, at the time his cars third fault was 
repaired, it had travelled  just over 84,000 miles in total. And, at the time of its Car Health 
Check, it had travelled a little under  88,000 miles.
We have been  unable to locate, within the information provided  to us by Mr D, the dealer 
quotation for repairing the second fault.  We have asked  him to send this document  to us, but 
he has not been able to do so.
Before considering whether SMFL  has responsibility  for faults,  the existence of a fault or 
faults needs to be established. In the case of Mr Ds car:
The suppling dealership acknowledged the first reported fault,  and undertook repairs  
that appear to have  been successful
SMFL  says that Mr D did not supply requested information about the second fault, 
which meant it was unable to give it proper consideration
Mr Ds local garage identified the third fault and undertook repairs (replacement of a 
significant component)  in December 2018
The March 2019 Car Health Check indicated  that the above repair  had been  only 
partially successful (thereby implying that a fault had existed)
Ref: DRN70632784It should also be noted that the elapsed time between the point of supply and the third faults  
repair was less than 14 weeks. This means the onus  would have  been  on SMFL:
Either to accept responsibility for any identified fault 
Or to demonstrate that such a fault was not present or developing  at the point  of 
supply
The supplying dealerships repair quotation would be an important piece of evidence in 
considering Mr Ds second complaint. But it is not available, and SMFL says that he also did 
not provide to it requested  information relating to his second complaint.  
This means  my decision about Mr Ds second complaint must be made  on the balance of 
probabilities. And, based on the available evidence, I find that it was fair and reasonable for 
SMFL not to uphold  this complaint. 
But, if SMFL had received  the requested information, and if this had led to a fault or faults  
being identified,  then the onus set out above  would have been  on it. A frequent  response by 
finance providers  in such circumstances is to commission a suitably accredited organisation 
to undertake an independent inspection of the car. This would identify any faults, and the 
independent inspector would give a view on whether  each identified  fault was within  SMFLs 
responsibilities.
SMFL said it was unable to help Mr D with his third complaint, because he had not given the 
dealer an opportunity to diagnose  and repair  the fault. And it is common  practice, in cases  
like Mr Ds:
Either for the dealer to accept responsibility for a fault
Or for an independent inspection to be commissioned
As far as I am aware,  Mr Ds local garage is not an organisation suitably accredited to 
undertake an independent inspection  of his car. And, because Mr D has paid it to repair  his 
car, it could  appear  to be biased towards him. But, because a repair  has already been 
completed, the opportunity for an independent inspection  has been lost. 
This means  my decision about Mr Ds third complaint must as well be made on the balance  
of probabilities. I have  taken into account:
The report by Mr D of his cars performance problems made to the dealer in October 
2018
The local garages report about the significant components failure
The March 2019 Car Health Check
And, on balance, I find that:
The existence of the cars third reported  fault has been established
This fault was present or developing at the point of supply, and so was within SMFLs 
responsibilities
Based on the above finding, I think that SMFL  should  reimburse  Mr Ds December 2018 
repair costs (£241.20) and his March 2019 Car Health Check  fee (£30.67). This reflects  
SMFLs responsibilities  for faults  that were present or developing at the point of supply.
But I do not think that SMFL should  reimburse any other expenditure incurred by Mr D. This 
is because I have not seen either evidence of this expenditure, or evidence that it relates to 
matters within SMFLs  responsibilities.
Ref: DRN70632785I note that Mr Ds first complaint was successfully resolved  by the dealer, supported  by 
SMFL. I also note that Mr D appears to have approached the dealer about  his second 
complaint, and then referred this complaint to SMFL. 
So, it was unfortunate  that Mr D did not follow the same path when progressing his third 
complaint, and instead took his car to a local garage before asking SMFL to refund the repair 
costs. A difficult situation with SMFL  was thereby  created.
I note as well Mr D felt that SMFL  and the dealer were listening to his concerns during the 
latter part of 2018. But it appears that he was similarly not responding to SMFLs concerns to 
receive information on which to base its response  to his complaint.
In these circumstances, I do not think it is fair or reasonable to expect  STML  to make a 
payment for distress and inconvenience to Mr D.
I understand that Mr D has continued  to make (with only one exception) the monthly 
payments required  under  his hire purchase agreement. In these circumstances, and unless I 
receive information to the contrary, no recommendation about  his credit file is required.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive 
from Mr D or Startline  Motor Finance Limited by 18 September 2020, my provisional decision  
is that I uphold  this complaint in part. My provisional  settlement recommendation is that 
Startline should  reimburse expenditure of £281.87 incurred by Mr D.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7063278