K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB) rejected his claim under section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
In July 2018, Mr C bought  a used car on his credit card for £2,505. And the mileage of the
car was around 93,000. Soon after the purchase,  Mr C drove to another country. Mr C says
he noticed the smell of fumes inside the car straight away, so he took the car to his local
garage in August 2018. Mr C says he was told the car needed a new turbo fitted  which
would cost him over £1,000. Mr C then told the dealership about the issue  and the car was
inspected on 3 September  2018. It was at this point, the 0-ring  on the turbo was replaced.
When Mr C went  to collect his car, he noticed this repair didnt make a difference  and the
smell of fumes persisted.
Mr C is unhappy as he says the car was advertised as a quality used car with a new MOT,
service and a six month warranty which would  cover the turbo up to 100,000 miles. Mr C
says he took the car to a local garage mid September 2018 to have the repair  work  carried
out under  the warranty. Mr C says the garage contacted the warranty company and they
explained that they wouldnt  authorise  for the repairs to be carried out as the cars mileage
was too high. Mr C says the car has been  parked  on his drive since September 2018 and the
mileage is 94,468.
Mr C raised a section 75 claim with AIB and they said they didnt think there had been a
breach of contract or misrepresentation  in Mr Cs case. AIB said the warranty didnt cover
damage caused by any foreign matter getting into or onto a part of the car and that gradual
deterioration of a component in line with age and mileage of a car would be considered as
wear and tear.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns. She said having considered the age and
mileage of the car at the point Mr C started  to notice  the smell of fumes, that the issue with
the turbo was down  the general  wear and tear. She also said had the damage been present
at point of sale,  she wouldve  expected  Mr C to notice the fumes  straight away. But as this
was after driving  to another country, it suggests  that the issue  with the turbo wasnt  present
at the time Mr C bought the car.
Mr C disagreed. He says as the fault occurred  within six months of having  the car, it was the
business responsibility to prove the fault wasnt present  when he bought  the car. Mr C says
he noticed the smell of fumes straight away so the issue must have been  present at the time
of sale. So, the complaint  has been passed  to me.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Mr C bought his car using  a credit card. In this case,  the relevant law I have considered is
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  This makes AIB liable for a breach of contract
or misrepresentation by the supplier  of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  says that goods should be of satisfactory quality at the point
of sale. The quality of goods is satisfactory  if they meet the standard  that a reasonable
person would consider satisfactory. Taking  into account things like the description, age and
Ref: DRN79452142price of the goods.
When Mr C first got the car, it was around 11 years old and had done  around 93,600  miles.
Its reasonable to expect  that the car would show some signs  of wear  and tear given its age
and mileage. I think its also reasonable to accept  that faults may arise with the car earlier
than one would expect with a newer, lower mileage  car. However, there are still certain
reasonable expectations - even with an older second-hand car.
AIB have said the warranty terms and conditions say that no liability will be accepted  for
damage caused by....any foreign matter getting  into or onto a part. So, they say the repairs
werent covered  under  the warranty because the seals of the turbo were allowing oil to pass
through the car. They  also thought the issues Mr C was experiencing with the car were down
to fair wear  and tear.
Mr C has provided three independent quotes which appear to comment on similar
components of the car being faulty. From  my own research, it seems the other issues noted
on the reports were as a result of the turbo seals being faulty  - for example,  the oil leaking
from the turbo which had gone into the intercooler and caused  damage.  Therefore, I think its
more likely than not that the other  issues arose from the turbo seals  being  faulty.
Despite this being a second hand,  older car I think the fault with the turbo is more than
reasonable wear  and tear in these particular circumstances. I say this because it is an
expensive fault to fix, and I think it would be uneconomical to repair,  given the cars value.
And I dont  think it would be reasonable to expect  a fault such as this to be present or
developing on the car so soon after Mr C acquired the car, even considering  its age, mileage
and price. I also dont think it would be reasonable to expect a car to be smelling of fumes
instantly and I think having a smell of fumes  in the car isnt right or in my opinion,  safe.
Overall, I dont  think a reasonable person would consider the car to be of satisfactory quality
at the time of sale. Mr C paid £2,505  for the car and I dont think a reasonable person would
expect a car, of this price, to have  this level of fault or expect the car to be smelling  of fumes,
especially so soon  after buying the car.
I note Mr C has also complained about  the way the car was advertised - he said it was
advertised as a quality  used  car, with a new MOT, service and a six month  warranty. And
Mr C feels hes been misled as he doesnt  think this car was of satisfactory quality. However,
Ive already found that the goods  werent of satisfactory quality taking into account  the age
and mileage of the car, its description  and what a reasonable person would expect.
I can see that the dealership had an opportunity to repair the car but it doesnt look like this
repair fixed the issue. I say this because Mr C has told us he still continued to smell fumes in
the car when  he picked  the car up after the 0-ring had been  replaced. And also,  the third
party inspection report that Mr C has provided  from November 2018  indicates the car still
had some of the same  issues as the inspection  report from before the 0-ring was replaced.
So, I dont think it would  be fair to continue attempts  at repair.  So, I think Mr C should now be
allowed to reject the car and AIB should take ownership of the car.
Ive thought about usage and whether Mr C should  pay for any usage hes had of the car.
The mileage  of the car when he brought it was 93,600 and Mr C has told us the current
mileage is 94,468 as he hasnt driven the car and instead, has kept the car on his drive. So,
with this in mind, I think its fair Mr C receives  a full refund of the amount he paid for the car
as its clear Mr C hasnt  been able to use the car very much  at all. I think a refund of the full
Ref: DRN79452143amount of the car also takes into consideration the inconvenience Mr C has experienced and
the disappointment  in not being able to drive a car hes bought. So, its for these reasons I
dont think its fair to ask Mr C to pay for any usage hes had of the car, given that hes only
been able to use the car for around  1,000  miles.
AIBs response to my provisional  decision
AIB responded  and said they think its likely there  was always  going to be a fault with the car 
as the mileage was 94,000. So, they didnt think there was a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation.
Mr Cs response to my provisional  decision
Mr C responded with the following points:
Other losses incurred  Mr C said hes also been at a loss by paying  the tax and 
insurance for the car as he hasnt been  able to drive it for around two years due to it 
being of unsatisfactory quality. Mr C asked me to consider a refund  of these costs.
The total cost of the car  Mr C says he paid more than £2,505 as mentioned in my 
provisional decision. Mr C says the total cost of the car was actually £2,866. Mr C 
says in addition  to paying the £2,505 on his credit card,  he also paid some of the 
payment using another card and some from a part exchange payment. Mr C also 
provided us with an invoice to show the cash price of the car was £2,655.
Court  fees  Mr C says when his complaint  was pursued against  the dealership via 
the court, they recommended he receive just over £3,000  Mr C says this amount 
was also inclusive of other court costs and interest which  had accrued. Mr C says 
this amount would  have put him back in the position he would  have been  in prior to 
buying the car. I note Mr C didnt receive  this payment as ordered under the court 
judgement as the dealership is no longer in existence.  
Storage fees  Mr C asked AIB to pay a weekly storage fee of £10 so that he can 
keep the car in a safe place and also to avoid the risk of potential vandalism. Mr C 
says if he had to claim on his insurance, the premiums would increase for the next 
five years.
Mr C provided  an invoice  from July 2018  which was for the supply and fit of two GB 
number plates and to also supply and fit head  light beam adapters
Mr C provided  an invoice  from August 2019   call out to attach battery charger and 
fob battery
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive communicated  my thoughts with both 
parties on all of the above points before reaching my final decision and gave both parties an 
opportunity to respond. Ive addressed each additional point raised below:
Other losses  incurred
Ive thought about what Mr C has told us. Its clear  from Mr Cs testimony  as well as what he 
has told us about  the cars current mileage, that he hasnt been  able to drive the car. So, on 
reflection, I think its fair AIB refund Mr C the cost of the following upon receipt of evidence  
from Mr C to AIB:
Ref: DRN79452144 Tax
 Insurance
 And any MOT costs during the time Mr C wasnt  able to use the car.
Plus 8% simple yearly  interest from date of payment to date of settlement.
The total cost of the car
Ive looked at the invoice  provided by Mr C and I can see the cash price for the car was 
£2,655  this was made up of £2,505 on his AIB credit  card,  £100 deposit  in cash and £50 
from a car he part exchanged.  I note Mr C has said the total cost of the car was actually 
£2,855 (inclusive  of a £60 charge for paying  on his credit card). I asked Mr C to provide me 
with evidence to show the further amount he paid (the difference between the cash price  of 
the car showing on the receipt which was £2,655 and the total price Mr C says he paid which  
was £2,855). 
Mr C responded and said for security reasons, he shreds all bank and credit card statements 
once he checks them over. Mr C also says he wipes all financial transactions from his 
computer to avoid  any security risks. Ive thought  about what  Mr C has said, however, I can 
only base my decision on the evidence I have. And this shows the total cash price  of the car 
was £2,655. So, I dont think I can fairly ask AIB to pay Mr C more than £2,655. 
Court fees
Mr C has provided us with a breakdown of what the court ordered  he receive from the 
dealership. Whilst I can appreciate Mr C has asked  for the same amount, we are an 
alternative to the courts  so we wouldnt necessarily make the same award as a court. And 
we dont usually  award any legal fees which a consumer may have incurred. I have to also 
bear in mind  that it was Mr Cs choice to pursue matters through  the courts,  which  he was of 
course free to pursue.  But I dont think its fair to ask AIB to cover  the court fees Mr C 
incurred.
Storage fees
I appreciate Mr C has asked AIB to pay weekly storage  costs  for the car. But from what I 
understand, Mr Cs car hasnt been vandalised  and where Mr C chooses to keep  his car is 
down to him. Mr C hasnt shown that he has incurred  these  costs,  so I wont be asking AIB to 
pay Mr C £10 a week for storage.
Invoice from July 2018
Mr C says he had to get two GB number plates fitted  and also head light beam  adapters on 
the car  Mr C says these  are a legal requirement to drive  outside of the UK. Mr C has told 
us the dealership agreed to fit these  but that this didnt happen. So, Mr C had to arrange for 
this to be done himself  and he has provided us with an invoice to show the amount he paid. 
Whilst there isnt a record of this conversation  with Mr C and the dealership, Im persuaded 
by what Mr C has told us. I say this because the reason Mr C bought this car was so he 
could drive abroad. In addition to this, I think Mr C has incurred a cost for something hes not 
been able to use due to the car being  of unsatisfactory  quality. The invoice provided by Mr C 
Ref: DRN79452145seems to be cut off at the end, but I think the amount paid was £35.93. Mr C hasnt provided  
us with anything  to persuade me he paid a different amount. So, I require AIB to refund Mr C 
£35.93 plus 8% simple  yearly interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Invoice from August 2019
Mr C says he had to arrange for the car battery to be charged in order to rotate the wheels  to 
stop the tyres from deteriorating. Mr C paid £30 for this to be done.  I think  its fair for AIB to 
reimburse Mr C this amount plus 8% simple yearly interest from date of payment to date of 
settlement. I say this because Im satisfied based on everything Mr C has told us and the 
current mileage of the car, that Mr C hasnt been able to use the car for two years. 
Therefore, I think the issue with the car battery not being charged flows from the car being  of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint and I require Allied  Irish Banks Plc to:
arrange to take ownership of the car and for it to be collected at no cost to Mr C;
refund  Mr C the cost of the tax, insurance  and any MOT  costs  incurred during the time 
Mr C wasnt able to use the car upon receipt of evidence  from Mr C to AIB,
refund  the £35.93 Mr C paid from the July 2018  invoice and the £30 from the August  
2019 invoice,
pay Mr C 8% simple  yearly interest on all refunds calculated from the date of payment to 
date of settlement*; and
rework Mr Cs credit card account  as if the payment of £2,505 for the car was never 
made, refunding  any associated interest and charges  if this results in a credit balance 
Mr C should receive  a refund plus interest  at 8% per year simple from the date of that 
credit balance  to the date of settlement*.  
Refund Mr C the additional  £150  he paid towards the cost of the car plus 8% simple 
yearly interest from the date of payment to date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
*If Allied Irish Banks Plc think that theyre required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, they should  tell Mr C how much theyve taken off. They should
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7945214