K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained about an instalment  loan he took out with Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum).  
background
In February 2017  Mr B took out a loan for £400,  repayable over four months.  The loan hasnt 
been paid.
Mr B said if Ferratum  had done a credit check it wouldve seen that he had a poor credit  
score and other outstanding loans elsewhere. Mr B told us that he was borrowing  from 
different lenders to pay off other loans. 
Ferratum said that it approved the loan after conducting up to date credit checks, along with 
its own internal credit  policy checks. It collected  information about Mr Bs payment history on 
credit commitments,  including bank  accounts,  loans, credit  cards,  mortgages and other 
finance agreements. Ferratum said it acted  on the information provided and the facts 
available. 
When Mr B complained to us, Ferratum said hed only paid £169.37 towards  the loan. But it 
had offered to settle the outstanding loan account on the basis  that Mr B repaid the 
remainder of the principal  sum hed borrowed  he wouldnt have to pay any interest on the 
loan.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and Ferratum told us about  this loan. 
In summary,  our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have  been proportionate to ask Mr B for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
he didn't think there was anything in the information Mr B provided or the information 
Ferratum shouldve  been aware of, which meant  that Ferratum shouldve  taken steps  
to verify the information Mr B had declared
and as this was the first loan Mr B had taken out, Mr B didn't have any track record  
with the lender that shouldve alerted Ferratum to any underlying  money problems. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide  this complaint.
Ferratum provided Mr B with a high-interest loan intended for short-term  use. Ferratum 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN79629502In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr B could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr B, Ferratum asked  Mr B for information on his financial situation, such  
as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked  about any other credit commitments  
and carried out credit checks. 
Ferratum says it agreed to Mr Bs application after carrying out all the proper checks.  And it 
relied on information Mr B provided  about his monthly income and expenditure as well as 
information obtained from credit reference  agencies. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr B and Ferratum have  said. 
This was Mr Bs first loan with Ferratum. So I think Ferratum could potentially  rely on 
information Mr B provided.  Looking  at the monthly  repayment amounts of around £167,  and 
the loan term, and taking into account the information it seems Mr B told Ferratum about his 
monthly income and what he was paying out, this repayment amount looked  comfortably 
affordable for Mr B.  
Im sorry  that Mr B had a problem with debt and that repaying  this loan is difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality  Mr Bs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other  information  Ferratum says it obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Ferratum couldve only decided  Mr Bs lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time.  And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Ferratum to ask Mr B to 
prove what he was declaring  or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Ferratum to lend  especially as there wasnt  anything 
obvious, in the information  it had, to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Ferratum did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr B. 
I understand that Ferratum withdrew its settlement offer after Mr B decided to bring his 
complaint to us instead. Its my understanding that this loan remains outstanding. 
I take this opportunity to remind Ferratum (or any third party  debt collection agency  if the 
debt is sold on) that it should  discuss payment  options with Mr B and treat him fairly  and 
sympathetically if he needs further  time to pay what he still owes.
And if Mr B would like help to manage his finances  theres more  information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
Ref: DRN79629503I understand that what Ive said will come  as a disappointment to Mr B but I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain  how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7962950