K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that BUPA  Insurance  Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
declining their claim under a medical insurance policy.  They  want  the claim paid.
background
Mr and Mrs D had a medical insurance  policy with BUPA,  taken out through  a broker  in 
2018. In 2019, Mrs D needed  a cataract  operation for her left eye, but BUPA refused to fund 
it as it said her eye issues were pre-existing and excluded under the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Mrs D had a similar operation carried out on her right eye in 2013. Her optometrist 
confirmed in writing that he had chosen not to mention the existence of the cataract in her 
left eye earlier to Mrs D as there were no issues caused by it until 2019.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to BUPA. It said the terms and conditions of the policy said pre-
existing conditions which were known about  in the five years before the policy  started 
werent covered.  BUPA said cataracts  were treated as a bilateral condition, so it didnt 
matter that the cataract had previously been  in the other eye. It also said the policy  set out 
that the two year consecutive period where  if thered been  no symptoms,  treatment  or advice 
the condition would  be covered ran from the start of the policy. BUPA noted that if the policy  
had been sold on a fully medically  underwritten basis,  the cataracts wouldve been excluded.  
It also said if the broker had said that the terms and conditions of the policy  were different, 
that was a matter  for it, not BUPA.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to us, and said that the broker had told them if there was a two 
year consecutive period  without symptoms, pre-existing conditions  would  be covered. The 
investigators view was that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that Mrs D was 
unaware of the cataract in her left eye until 2019,  and there was no evidence that having had 
a cataract in one eye, this meant it was linked to the other eye. 
The investigator said that Mrs D hadnt received treatment, advice or symptoms in relation to 
the left eye in the five years before the policy  was taken out, and so wasnt covered by the 
exclusion. He also commented that the policy didnt make it clear that cataracts  were  viewed 
as a bilateral condition, and thought this shouldve been pointed out to be fair. The 
investigator said BUPA should deal with the claim and pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
BUPA disagreed.  It said it wouldnt ever state that bilateral conditions  werent  covered,  and it 
was reasonable  to assume that someone  who developed a cataract in one eye was likely to 
develop one in the other  eye. BUPAs  medical director  noted  that it was common  for people  
who needed a cataract  operation to have  two. The investigator accepted that there  was 
some merit  in what BUPA had said, but there was no evidence  of the cause of Mrs Ds 
cataracts so each eye should  be considered  separately. He also said that BUPA shouldve 
explained its approach to cataracts to Mr and Mrs D before the policy  was taken out and 
didnt change his view about the right solution  to the complaint.
BUPA pointed out that Mr and Mrs D took out a moratorium policy  and paid the relevant 
premium; they didnt have  a full medically  underwritten policy  which was their choice.  This 
meant in its view that BUPA had no chance to explain  its approach  to Mrs Ds medical 
history. It also pointed out that if the policy had been  in place for two years without any 
symptom, advice or treatment occurring,  the left eye operation  wouldve been  covered by it.
Ref: DRN79525882my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines  say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its important to note that Mr and Mrs Ds policy wasnt medically underwritten  this means 
before it was taken  out, their medical histories werent checked and BUPA  didnt talk to them  
about what would and wouldnt be covered by the policy. The broker mayve discussed  their 
history in order to establish their needs,  but that wasnt BUPAs  role. 
Mr and Mrs D took out a moratorium policy, which is designed  to exclude pre-existing 
medical conditions  and only over time allows them to be covered if there is a two year 
consecutive period where theres no treatment, advice or symptoms  for that condition. This 
two year period  must happen while  the policy is in place; it cant run before the policy starts. 
This means  Mrs D cant rely on this to make a claim as the policy hadnt been in place for 
two years before she got symptoms in her left eye.
BUPA says conditions treated in the five years  before the policy started  are pre-existing 
conditions. I agree. The key issue is about whether Mrs Ds cataract in her right eye means 
the cataract  in her left eye should  be treated as a pre-existing  condition. The policy  doesnt 
go into detail about any condition and its treatment by BUPA. I note that the policy was taken 
out through a broker and there was no opportunity for BUPA to discuss  Mrs Ds situation  as 
it wasnt medically underwritten. The purpose  of Mr and Mrs Ds policy  was to allow them  to 
have medical insurance without going through such underwriting and being  able to include 
pre-existing conditions over time, as shown  by the brokers letter  to them.  
The investigator says BUPA  shouldve set out its policy about cataracts to Mr and Mrs D. I 
disagree. I dont see why cataracts  should be dealt with differently to any other  condition;  if 
Mr and Mrs D had specific queries about what would be covered, it was the role of the 
broker to ensure the policy  met their needs. Medical  insurance polices dont set out in detail 
an insurers policy for each possible claim;  that wouldnt be practical and wouldnt allow  
flexibility or development.
But the policy is silent about the concept  of bilateral conditions. While an insurer  is able to 
make commercial decisions  about what cover it offers,  it does need  to act fairly and set out 
any unusual points. Its common  practice in the industry to treat cataracts  as a bi-lateral 
condition. 
Neither party has provided evidence about  cataracts,  and this service isnt qualified to make  
medical judgements.  That said, I have  looked  at the information available to me, the 
comments of the parties and NHS  guidance. Its more  likely than not that the cause of 
Mrs Ds cataracts  is age; this is the most common reason for cataracts and theres no 
evidence of any other cause. I also think if age wasnt the cause of the cataracts, Mrs Ds 
optometrist wouldve let her know earlier about the left eye cataract.
Ref: DRN79525883Age-related cataracts  according to both BUPA and the NHS generally come  in pairs - if you 
get one in one eye, youre likely to get one in the other but not necessarily at the same time. 
This is well-known by the public in my view.  It is for this reason that BUPA views them  as a 
bilateral condition. So while the cataract in the right eye didnt cause the cataract in the left 
eye, in my view it was a symptom of the same  condition which was likely to have led to the 
cataract in both eyes. This means  that it was a pre-existing condition  excluded  by the policy 
as Mrs Ds right eye cataract was treated within the five year period before the policy  started. 
And I dont  think BUPA  was required to set this out within  its policies as it isnt unusual and 
the likelihood of needing an operation for each eye is well known. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  BUPA accepted  my view.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  
They said that they never intended to misinform BUPA in any way and Mrs D didnt know  
about the development of the second  cataract.  Mr and Mrs D felt that few insurers would 
insure them due to their age, but noted  BUPA  was willing to take the premiums and decline 
claims. They said that they took out the policy to have some security.
I have thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs D have said, but my view hasnt changed. I 
accept entirely that they never  gave  incorrect information to BUPA  knowingly, but its also 
correct that BUPA hasnt declined the claim due to Mr and Mrs Ds age. The issue is that 
cataracts are a bi-lateral  condition and are viewed as a pre-existing medical  condition  for 
both eyes if a cataract has developed previously in one eye. While the cause of the cataracts 
may well be age, the policy hadnt  been  in place long enough  to cover such  a pre-existing 
condition in the circumstance. I cant say that BUPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably for 
the reasons set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 March  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7952588