K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited prevented him from trading on 
their platform causing him financial loss.
 
background 
Mr G says Interactive are responsible for the problems he encountered  in trading on the 
platform at the specific  time he wanted to. He says he continued  to receive an error 
message telling him he had insufficient funds  to trade when funds were available. He had to 
place the trade on the phone but by the time the trade had been  placed the price was less 
favourable resulting in financial loss to him of £270.  When he contacted  them, he felt 
Interactive gave him several different explanations for why he wasnt able to trade at that 
time. 
Interactive said Mr Gs problems were due to the way their system works   this is because  
prices quoted are yesterdays. So if the following day a share  price  falls, the system may not 
realise there  is indeed  enough cash available to complete the trade.  Nevertheless,  
Interactive said that if Mr G was having  problems trading, he could always have called them. 
But as he didnt do this at the time to secure  the price he wanted to trade  at, they didnt  
agree that hed suffered  any financial loss. They  said that if Mr G was having  problems 
trading, he could have called  and submitted his trade on the telephone. They  didnt agree 
that Mr G had suffered  any financial loss.  
The investigator at this service partially  upheld this complaint  against  Interactive. He looked 
in detail at Mr Gs web activity log which showed  the trades he attempted to place. He 
accepts that Mr G was prevented from trading  when  he wanted to. But the investigator also 
notes that Mr G didnt attempt to trade at the initial price he says he did because there was 
actually no online quote available. His web activity shows  that the price he actually first tried 
to trade  at was higher than the price he eventually did trade at. So he hadnt  actually 
incurred any financial loss.
The investigator said that Interactive displayed an incorrect error message when Mr G tried 
to trade  on the platform which caused  him distress. They also gave him incorrect information 
when he raised  his concerns with them. So the investigator said Interactive should pay Mr G 
£150 in compensation.
Interactive accepted the investigators  view but Mr G didnt so this has come  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am upholding this 
complaint in part. I will explain further.
I appreciate Mr Gs frustration with the situation  as he was initially  prevented from trading 
when he wanted  to and then when  he complained  to Interactive he was given different 
explanations for why he wasnt able to trade. He couldnt trade online because  there was no 
online quote available.  When the share prices are moving so rapidly its not uncommon for 
brokers to be unable  to offer firm prices  and thats  what happened here so he wouldnt have 
been able to trade anyway. If the prices  the brokers are getting from the market arent 
Ref: DRN74455932guaranteed then they arent able to guarantee prices  to their clients. Under the 
circumstances it is understandable that Mr G wasnt able to put an order in online. 
Interactive has explained  that on occasions when this happens, their systems default  to the 
previous days price.  This is what happened to Mr G. When he tried to trade  online he was 
given the previous days price. So he kept getting  an error message saying that his order 
exceeded the amount he had available to spend. This message was an incorrect  error 
message and should have said that no online quote was available.
Interactive explained  that Mr G should  have entered invest monetary amount instead  of a 
specific number of shares - then he would have seen an error message saying there was no 
electronic quote  available.  This would have then allowed him to either buy fewer  shares  or 
call the telephone line and trade this way. Whilst I accept Mr G could have called through  the 
trade on the phone  if he was experiencing problems on the platform, I dont think there was 
any way of Mr G knowing  that he had to do this. Mr G didnt understand what the issue  was 
because the error message was wrong  and the information wasnt  available. It incorrectly 
said there were insufficient funds  so he continued  to try trading on the platform with no 
success adding to his frustration. I am satisfied that this caused Mr G distress and 
inconvenience.
The error message  was incorrect  and didnt direct Mr G to trade on the phone instead. But I 
wouldnt say this completely took the ability to trade  on the telephone away  from him  he 
could have enquired about  the error message, in which case  its likely Interactive could have 
explained or resolved the problem and offered a telephone deal  perhaps  honouring online 
pricing. But Mr G didnt  attempt to reach out to Interactive at the time; he just kept retrying  to 
trade online. However, I do think its fair to say Interactive should have given Mr G an 
accurate error message   this could have led him to deal with the problem sooner.
When Mr G complained to Interactive they gave him different reasons for why he was unable 
to trade  on the platform when he wanted.  This further added  to the misunderstanding he 
experienced. So I am satisfied that Interactive caused Mr G distress  and inconvenience  and 
that the £150 suggested by our investigator  is enough to recognise what happened.
In terms of looking at any financial  loss being  incurred, I have looked at Mr Gs weblog.  This 
shows when an error message has been generated. The business  has explained to us that 
this only happens  when an electronic quote  isnt available. There were many price  
fluctuations at the time he was trying  to place his trade  which meant that Mr G was never 
guaranteed any particular  price - whether this trade was placed  online or on the phone. So 
under the circumstances  it was fair for Interactive not to be able to offer a guaranteed  price. 
Given that no guaranteed price could be given,  I cant say for sure what price Mr G would  
have got  as it would probably have had to go to a phone deal anyway. While he asked for 
quotes at lower prices,  the first time he tried to trade  the price was £10.425, higher than the 
price he actually received.  So had he been given the right information from Interactive when 
he first tried to trade and called at that point, its more likely than not that hed have got the 
same price  or worse  so Im not persuaded Mr G has suffered any financial loss.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint against Interactive Investor Services  
Limited. Interactive  should pay Mr G £150  for the distress and inconvenience they have 
caused.
Ref: DRN74455933Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7445593