K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds)  
are now responsible for this complaint so the complaint has been set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Lloyds in my decision.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage in 2000. In 2002  they took out a further advance on their 
mortgage. They were  sold PPI in connection with this further advance.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the policy only covered Mr C. It would have 
provided a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C was off work  sick or lost his 
job.
The adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and                
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr C was eligible  for the policy.  Im satisfied Mr C was 
eligible based  on his age and circumstances at the time of the sale.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the PPI was optional  and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr and Mrs C say that they were  unaware 
PPI had been added to their account. They say that they didnt take PPI when the mortgage 
was taken out in 2000  and so wouldnt have agreed to take it out in 2002  either.  
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale so Ive thought  carefully about what Mr 
and Mrs C and Lloyds  have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale,  to 
help me decide  what is more likely  to have  happened. 
As Mr and Mrs C have  mentioned, they didnt choose to take PPI when they first took out 
their mortgage. So I think  they would have  known that it wasnt something  they had to take 
out to get approved for the credit. I note that PPI was applied  for on a completely separate 
application form to the mortgage. This form shows they selected who was to be insured. 
Regardless of who actually completed the form, both Mr and Mrs C signed this application  
form. I cant see how this form could have  been mistaken for the loan application form.
Ref: DRN73295242So while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs C have  told us, based on the evidence available to 
me I think its more likely that Lloyds did make  it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the PPI was 
optional and that it was only applied to the account  because Mr and Mrs C chose to take it 
out.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy. This means they had to take 
adequate steps to ensure  it was suitable for them. I dont  know  whether they took all the 
steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time,  I think it was suitable for them.   I say this because:
Mr C didnt appear to have been  affected  by the more restrictive terms or exclusions in 
the policy such that it would have been  difficult for him to make a successful claim 
under the policy.  For example, the terms relating to pre-existing medical  conditions  
and unusual working arrangements. I appreciate Mr C was self-employed at the time 
of the sale and some policies  would have made it difficult  for him to make  a successful 
claim. However, this wasnt one of those policies. 
Mr C did not have  sick or redundancy pay he could have used to meet their  
repayments if he was off work sick or lost his job. And I note that he was the main 
earner. This policy would have enabled them to meet an important financial 
commitment had they needed  to rely on it and would have  done  so for 12 months  at 
any one time.
The PPI appears to have been  affordable to Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale.  
Mr and Mrs C could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, Lloyds also had to give them  
clear enough information  so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about  the costs, benefits  and main exclusions under the policy.
I dont  think Lloyds  did give Mr and Mrs C all of the information as they should have. But this 
in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have  to go on and consider  whether better  
information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better  information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
Ref: DRN73295243my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7329524