K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) failed to set up his landlord insurance  
policy correctly, which has caused him financial loss and a decline in his health.
background
A burst pipe caused damage to a commercial  property that Mr B owns. As a result,  he 
incurred a loss of rent from the property.  So he attempted  to make a claim for the damage 
and the subsequent loss of rent under his commercial landlord insurance policy with UKI.
UKI considered Mr Bs claim and found  he hadnt  added rent receivable cover  to the policy  
until 15 March 2018, which  was around a few weeks after he made the claim. UKI said that 
any claims made before this date wouldnt include cover for loss of rent, so it didnt pay this 
part of the claim.
Mr B disagreed and complained to UKI. He said he told it that he wanted rent receivable  
cover when he took the policy  out. And he recalled discussing  it during calls he had with UKI 
in October 2017.  So he thought his loss of rent costs should be covered.
UKI said that given  the time thatd passed,  itd been unable to retrieve the original sales call 
from 2013 when  Mr B bought the policy. But it did have the original  quotation documents, 
which it said showed that rent receivable cover  hadnt been  taken. And it said this was also 
set out in the annual  renewal documents that were sent to Mr B each year.  Finally,  it said itd 
listened to the relevant calls from October  2017  and that no request for the cover was made 
at that time either. So it maintained its position.
Our investigator looked into the case and thought UKI had been fair in its actions, so he 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it and Ill explain why.
Given the time thats passed, its not unusual that UKI no longer has the recording of the 
initial sales  call from 2013. But Ive seen the quotation documents and UKI is correct  in 
saying that these state that Mr B selected no to the question that asked if he required rent 
receivable cover. So while  I cant be sure of the conversation that took place over the phone  
at that time, the evidence available persuades me, that its more  likely, that Mr B didnt select 
to take rent receivable cover  at the point  of sale. 
Ive also seen the policy renewal documents sent to Mr B in 2016 and 2017. These appear 
to have been sent to the correct correspondence address. And under the part of the policy 
titled (in bold and capital letters)  Section 4: Rent receivable, it says Not Insured. 
Ref: DRN77858272Its evident the renewal  documents  set out that Mr B didnt have rent receivable  cover  on his 
policy. So even if I was persuaded  that UKI made  an error  by not adding it at policy 
inception, which based on the evidence Im not, Im satisfied Mr B shouldve reasonably 
been aware of this when he received his renewal documents each year.  And as a result,  he 
had the opportunity, prior to the claim, to amend the policy  accordingly,  to ensure he had the 
right level of cover in place for when he needed it. But he didnt do this, and I cant hold UKI 
responsible for the decision he made.
Im aware that Mr B had cause for a separate complaint with UKI in October 2017. Hed 
received his renewal  documents for the following  period of cover  and spotted  an error with 
the address UKI held for his property. Mr B says the rent receivable cover was also 
discussed during  his calls with UKI at that time. But Ive listened to the calls in question and 
Ive heard no mention of this being discussed.  
But the fact that Mr B spotted the inaccuracy with his address within the renewal documents 
in October 2017,  leads  me to think that when doing this, he wouldve likely seen that he 
wasnt insured for rent receivable cover at that time also. But again,  theres no record Ive 
seen of him flagging  this to UKI at that time.
From what  Ive seen, Mr B first requests this cover on 15 March 2018,  which  is after he 
made the claim for the burst pipe at his property. So simply, when Mr B made the claim, he 
didnt have the rent receivable  cover  he now seeks to claim under. So Im satisfied that UKI 
has acted fairly by not agreeing to cover his loss of rent costs under the claim.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont  be asking UKI to do anything further. I 
know this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I was sorry to learn of the impact he 
says the situation has had on his health. But Im satisfied Ive reached a fair outcome for the 
reasons Ive explained above. And so I wont be asking UKI to do anything further in this 
case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785827