K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC failed to resolve problems with a direct debit 
payment to his credit  card account.  
background
Mr J opened a credit card account  with a third party who Ill refer to as M in July 2016. A 
number of direct debit payments due to be made to it from his Barclays account  were either 
not made, or returned  unpaid. 
Mr J says he was in frequent  contact with both M and Barclays  to try and resolve the 
problem. He set the direct  debit up again  several times but the problem persisted. As a result  
he incurred late payment fees with M, and his credit rating was affected.  
Whilst this problem was on-going Mr J was in the process of buying  a house. Some of his 
mortgage applications were rejected. And his financial advisor  told him this was because of 
the issues with the direct  debit payments to M. Mr J wants to be compensated for the 
financial loss hes suffered as a result of not securing two earlier  mortgage offers which had 
more favourable interest rates.  And for the distress  this matter has caused  him and his 
family. 
In November 2018 our service raised this matter  with Barclays on Mr Js behalf. Barclays 
said it had no record of Mr J contacting it about  the failed direct debit payments. But as a 
gesture of goodwill offered him £100 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. 
Mr J didnt accept this offer so our adjudicator looked at what had happened. The adjudicator  
was persuaded  Mr J had contacted Barclays about  the direct debit problems and felt 
Barclays should have  done more to assist him. They  recommended that Barclays pay 
Mr J £300 compensation.  But didnt think it would  be fair for it to pay for any financial losses 
Mr J suffered as a result of his mortgage deal. 
Barclays didnt agree with this view. It feels its offer of £100 compensation is reasonable and 
says that it didnt make any errors here. Mr J didnt  accept the adjudicators  opinion  either. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Our service is also looking into a separate complaint Mr J has brought against M in relation 
to this same  matter. My decision  here only focuses on the actions of Barclays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as our investigator did. Ill explain  why.
Ms shown us that it first took steps to set up a direct debit instruction in November 2016.  
Mr Js told us that he cancelled this instruction in December 2016 and asked M to take a 
direct debit for a lesser amount. Barclays has explained that this cancellation left an expired 
direct debit instruction  on his customer record.
Ref: DRN77046992Ive seen evidence  from M that it tried to reinstate this direct  debit a number of times 
between February and July 2017.  Barclays says that rather  than reinstate it, M should have 
set up a brand new direct  debit instruction. Having seen a direct  debit log from M, Im 
inclined to agree with Barclays  on this point.  And I dont think Barclays was directly 
responsible for the problems that incurred at this time.
However Mr J says he contacted Barclays a number of times over the telephone about  the 
issues he was having with this direct debit  payment. Hes also told us that he asked it to 
remove any old or expired  instructions from his record towards the end of July 2017. And to 
put clear instructions on his profile that any instructions from [M] regarding direct debit must 
not be refused.
Barclays says it has no record of Mr J contacting it about these issues, and so it didnt have 
the opportunity  to remove the expired instruction. Its provided evidence  that Mr J contacted 
it during in 2018 about unrelated matters. But has no record  that he contacted it at all in the 
three years prior to this. 
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory  (like it is here), I have to make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think  is most  likely to have happened 
when considering all of the circumstances  of this complaint.  
Like our adjudicator I do think its unlikely Mr J would have spoken to Barclays  numerous 
times in 2018 but not at all in the three years prior to this. And Im persuaded by Mr Js 
testimony that he did speak to Barclays about  these problems and ask it to remove any 
expired direct debit  instructions. 
I say this because  M has given us a detailed record of the extensive contact Mr J had with it 
about the issue, which included numerous  phone calls.  And I think its unlikely Mr J would 
have spoken at length with M but not contacted Barclays about the problem,  which persisted 
over a considerable length of time. 
Mr J told M several  times  that he had spoken with Barclays. And on 25 July 2017 M 
explained it would set up a brand new direct debit and told Mr J to first contact Barclays  and 
ask it to clear any old or expired instructions on his record. Mr J phoned back a few days  
later to confirm hed done this. And given  the time and effort he had already spent trying to 
resolve the matter  I think its unlikely  this wasnt the case.
Whilst I dont think  Barclays were  responsible  for the initial  problems with the direct  debit, I 
do think it should have  taken action to investigate  the situation  further  for Mr J. And to 
remove the expired  direct  debit instruction from his records in July 2017,  or soon after.  Had it 
done this I think  its likely  these problems could have been resolved sooner. So I agree with 
our adjudicator that Barclays should  compensate Mr J for the inconvenience he experienced 
from this time. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed  but I think £300 compensation is fair to resolve  this 
complaint. I appreciate his disappointment at not securing  a better  mortgage  deal. But I dont 
think I can fairly say this is directly or solely attributable to Barclays  actions. Whilst I 
appreciate it would have been  inconvenient  for Mr J, I dont  think  its unreasonable to 
suggest he could  have checked whether his direct  debit payments  were being taken given 
there was an on-going  problem. Or otherwise have made alternative arrangements to pay 
his credit card account. 
Ref: DRN77046993my final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint Barclays Bank UK PLC should  pay Mr J 
£300 compensation for the inconvenience  and upset  caused  by its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7704699