K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) refused future claims for 
a specific product for their dog.
background
In 2018 Mr and Mrs Hs dog became ill and was hospitalised with a urinary tract infection.  
Mr and Mrs Hs dog was treated with antibiotics and was subsequently  given  an additional 
product which  RSA is now refusing to cover in any future claims. 
RSA had initially agreed to pay for the product (and did so during  the first claim) but later 
refused because it felt this was a supplement. RSA said the supplement was available  over 
the counter and internet  and could be purchased without  a prescription  and said this was 
excluded under the terms of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree this was a supplement  and said that the product had been 
prescribed by their vet and was complementary  feed needed by their dog. Mr and Mrs H said 
another of their dogs also took complementary  feed and this had been accepted  by RSA. 
But RSA said the claim for the other  dog had been made  prior to the change in policy  terms 
excluding supplements which can be purchased over the counter and internet without a 
prescription. 
Our investigator considered the information provided  by Mr and Mrs H and RSA  they didnt 
think RSA did anything  wrong in declining the future  claims because they felt this was a 
supplement and was available  over the counter and internet  without a prescription. So they 
considered it was excluded under the terms of the policy. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. Mr and Mrs H insist this product 
isnt a supplement  and is complementary feed so should have been accepted under 
complement treatment  or treatment food sections of the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely, in light of the evidence that is available  
and wider surrounding circumstances. 
RSA have provided us information to show the policy terms were  updated  to exclude 
supplements available over the counter or internet without a prescription, in 2016.  The 
updated terms were sent to Mr and Mrs H at each renewal in 2016, 2017 and 2018. 
Its not in dispute  whether Mr and Mrs Hs dog needed this treatment or that it was 
recommended/prescribed by their vet. But that doesnt mean its automatically covered, and I 
need to consider the terms of the policy. The issue for me to determine here is whether it 
was fair for RSA to decline the claim for the reasons it did  so, essentially,  whether it was 
fair for RSA to consider  the product a supplement. 
The product  is available both over the counter and internet without a prescription so would 
be caught by the policy  terms, if I think RSA were fair in declining  the claim by considering  
Ref: DRN73428302this as a supplement. I say this because a supplement will be excluded  under the updated 
policy terms as they set out what is and isnt covered. In relation to supplements it explains:
Veterinary Fees  What  is not covered
Supplementswhich can be purchased over the counter and internet without a 
prescription.
RSA has provided us with its internal notes checking the product with its vet, who has said 
the product was a supplement and available without prescription. Mr and Mrs H have said 
their vet and the product manufacturer dont  agree  this is a supplement.  But I havent been 
provided any details  of this by Mr and Mrs H and our investigator has already let them know  
it was for them to put forward  any information  they wanted  us to consider. 
So I have  considered the information that has been  provided. I dont think it was unfair  for 
RSA to consider  that this product was a supplement   I say this because  the information 
given to me shows RSA consulted its internal  vet who believed this product  was a 
supplement. This product  is also available over the counter and internet without a 
prescription so had it been a prescription only product I would  have expected to see greater 
controls around its sale and usage.  
Mr and Mrs H added  this product should  be considered  as complementary feed (as 
mentioned in the accompanying  product  leaflet)  and therefore felt it should be included 
under the complementary treatment or treatment food sections of the policy. 
But I dont agree. Complementary  feed suggests this is something to be given in addition to 
normal food and not something  that is a requirement   like prescribed medication. It also 
suggests it is like a supplement which is given in addition  to rather than to replace 
something. So I dont think  it is treatment food as it is not a replacement for food but is 
complementary or supplementary to current feed. And in considering the Complementary  
treatment terms  of the policy, these relate to actual treatments named in the policy like 
acupuncture or physiotherapy, rather than a supplement  or any type of complementary  feed 
to be provided to animals.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said but these points dont  change  my 
decision. As Im persuaded RSA didnt act unfairly  in considering this a supplement, I dont 
think RSA did anything  wrong in declining claims for this product and I wont  be asking it to 
do anything.  
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above  my final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint against  Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7342830