K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about the interest  charges on her Lloyds Bank PLC credit  card.  She is 
finding it difficult to reduce  her outstanding balance.
background
Ms S had a credit card with Lloyds.  She said she was struggling  to meet  the monthly 
minimum payment of over £120. Ms S said about £80 of that was interest. And shed asked 
Lloyds for a temporary payment  plan with lower payments and interest.  
Ms S said Lloyds wouldnt help her. Shed gone through her income and expenditure with 
the bank. And it said she couldnt afford  a monthly  repayment plan. But that didnt make any 
sense  the repayments wouldve been  lower. So Ms S wants a plan with lower interest 
putting in place. And she wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience  suffered 
while trying to sort things  out.
Lloyds said Ms S had told it about her financial difficulties in July 2018. And the bank placed 
a hold on the account for 30 days. No interest  was charged during this period. Lloyds asked 
Ms S to complete an income  and expenditure form to see what  she could afford. After  
reviewing Ms Ss response Lloyds suggested she move the account  to recoveries. She 
wouldnt pay any more interest or charges. But it would be recorded  as a default  on her 
credit file. 
Ms S wasnt satisfied with Lloyds  response. So she contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She thought  the bank had responded sympathetically  
once it was aware of Ms Ss situation.  Itd refunded and stopped interest in July and August 
2018 and January 2019. And she could see Lloyds had explained any repayment plan 
wouldnt be affordable.  So she couldnt  say itd treated Ms S unfairly. 
Ms S didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has been finding it difficult to make  her minimum monthly  repayments  on her credit  
card account. And when  she reviewed her income  and expenditure with Lloyds in 2018 it felt 
the only realistic option was to close the account and pass it to the recoveries team.  
But that would affect Ms Ss credit  file. And I can see she wants to pay off the balance  on her 
card  she just needs Lloyds to remove the interest so she can make  some headway  on the 
outstanding balance. 
When Ms S told Lloyds about her financial situation I would expect it to respond positively 
and sympathetically. And I can see it carried out a review of Ms Ss income and expenditure 
to see if it could offer a short  term repayment  plan. Unfortunately Lloyds determined that a 
repayment plan wasnt affordable. And it said it would be better to pass the account to 
recoveries to stop any further  interest or charges being added  to the account.
Ref: DRN77704442When an account is passed to recoveries it will show a default  on the customers  credit file. 
So I can understand why Ms S wanted  to avoid this option. And it is to her credit that she 
wants to try and repay the balance on her account.  But Lloyds has reviewed Ms Ss financial 
situation. And it feels Ms S doesnt  have any spare  resources to make payments to a plan. 
So its not able to offer her one. 
I appreciate Ms S is having to try and find over £100 each month at present. And she says a 
reduced payment  would obviously  be easier  for her. But Lloyds can only offer her a short-
term payment plan if it feels she is able to afford  it. And, based on the information its been  
given, there  doesnt  seem  to be any available funds to make  the payments  no matter  what 
the amount.
Lloyds has explained  its not able to alter the interest rates for individual  customers. And the 
only alternative would be to pass the account to recoveries. So its important Ms S carefully  
considers what to do next. There are a number of free debt services she could talk for 
advice. And Lloyds has a customer support unit who may be able to offer suggestions to 
help Ms S manage her finances  if her payments arent in arrears.  
But I cant really say Lloyds has done  anything wrong in not offering Ms S a repayment plan. 
The figures she provided dont allow for a suitable plan to be put in place.
I realise Ms S has put a lot of effort into trying to resolve  this matter. And I do sympathise 
with the situation she finds herself in. But I cant ask Lloyds to set up a repayment  plan when  
the figures suggest it isnt affordable. And I dont  think  it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds 
to compensate Ms S for the time she has spent discussing the matter with the bank. I hope 
Ms S is able to find a solution  to her current situation. But I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7770444