K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that an educational course funded by a loan from Honeycomb Finance 
Limited (Honeycomb), was misrepresented to him. 
 
background
Mr A entered a fixed  sum loan agreement with Honeycomb in February  2018  to pay for an 
online educational  course for his children. The course cost £3,550, the loan was repayable  
over 48 months and was interest free. Mr A wants the agreement  cancelled  and his 
repayments refunded.
Mr A says the salesperson mis-led him to believe  the course included both secondary and 
primary school  education  programmes.  He said that he would not have signed up for the 
course if he had known it only included a primary education programme, as he wanted the 
tuition for his son who was starting  secondary school.
Unable to resolve  his concerns with the supplier,  who I will refer to as E, Mr A complained  
to Honeycomb that the course had been mis-sold to him. It said that the sales  paper work 
clearly set out what was included  in the course,  it declined Mr As request for a refund of 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 75). 
Unsatisfied with Honeycombs response, Mr A complained to our service.  Our investigator 
was persuaded  by what Mr A had told us. She recommended the complaint was upheld  and 
asked Honeycomb  to cancel the credit agreement and refund Mr As repayments.
Honeycomb disagreed.  In summary  it said Mr A would  have  been  shown examples of the 
programme and could  have accessed the modules to see what  was included,  during his 14-
day cancellation period, as he didnt  do this, it didnt think it should  cancel the agreement  or 
refund Mr A any payments. Honeycomb  asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint and Ive explained why below:
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Mr A or Honeycomb, its not 
because Ive failed  to take it on board, but because I dont think  I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to bring a claim against 
a finance provider, if theres either  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of goods or services.  Mr A says the course was misrepresented  to him, so in order  to uphold 
his complaint against Honeycomb, I need to be satisfied theres been a misrepresentation by 
E and Honeycombs response to his Section 75 claim was either unfair or not reasonable. 
Im not determining the outcome of a claim under Section 75, as only a court  can do that.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact that causes the consumer to go ahead 
with the contract. 
Ref: DRN74106292Mr A says he was interested in tuition for his son, who was in his last year of primary school. 
So, when he received Es leaflet from the school,  he got in touch with E. Mr A was visited by 
Es representative who initially offered him a package to meet the needs of both children, 
covering primary and secondary education, with GCSE revision  included.  As the cost of this 
package was out of Mr As budget,  the representative offered an alternative  package for both 
children, which  included primary and secondary education, along with SATs revision  for his 
son. Mr A says he was happy with this and so signed up for this course.
In August  2018  Mr A tried unsuccessfully to access a higher  module for his son, as he was 
starting secondary school  in September 2018. He contacted E who advised the secondary 
education modules were  not included in his package. Mr A says that he would not have 
signed up for the course if the representative had told him this at time of the sale.
Ive found Mr As recollection  of the sales meeting to be detailed  and consistent throughout 
his complaint with, E, Honeycomb and this service. And on balance I think  it is more likely 
than not, that the representative did tell Mr A that secondary education  was included in the 
package. In addition, I think the timing of Mr A getting in touch with E in August 2018, shortly 
before his son started secondary school, is consistent with being  told secondary education 
was part of the package.
Honeycomb says Mr A should  have been aware  from the sales paperwork, what  modules 
were included in the course package. It also says the representative would have shown Mr A 
examples of the modules  and Mr A could have accessed the modules individually to see 
what was included, during the 14-day cancellation period.
Ive looked at the proforma application form provided by Honeycomb, and whilst it shows 
Maths and English modules, it doesnt give any detail about what is covered under each 
module. And I have  not seen any other sales paperwork giving examples or detailing  what  is 
included. So, I dont  agree  that this should  have  been clear  to Mr A from the paperwork. And 
whilst I accept Mr A could  have discovered the secondary education modules werent  
included, if he went through all the modules during his cancellation period, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable that he didnt check this at the time as his son had not yet started secondary 
school. 
 
Im also satisfied that Mr A would not have entered  the course agreement  if the 
representative had explained that the course  package did not include secondary  education.  I 
say this because  Mr A was interested in tuition for his son, as he was transitioning  to 
secondary school. So, I do not think he would have  signed up for the course if he was told 
the package would be only be suitable for his daughter who was in primary school and would 
only benefit his son for up to five months. So, I think the course  was misrepresented to Mr A.
To put things right I think  Honeycomb should cancel the credit agreement  with nothing 
further to pay. Arrange to collect the laptop supplied  at no cost to him. I can see that Mr As 
children last logged  into the course  in November 2018, so to reflect  this use Honeycomb  
should refund Mr As deposit and all monthly repayments since December 2018, adding  8% 
simple interest per year from the date of each payment until the date of settlement. 
Honeycomb should also remove all information about the credit agreement  from Mr As 
credit file. I also think it is fair for Honeycomb  to pay Mr A £100 compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience  of being mis-sold the course.  
Ref: DRN74106293my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  the complaint and instruct Honeycomb Finance Limited to;
1.Cancel the fixed sum loan agreement at no further costs  to Mr A.
2.Arrange the collection of the laptop at no cost to Mr A.
3.Refund Mr As deposit in full; adding 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
the payment to the date of settlement. *
4.Refund any payments  made by Mr A from December  2018; adding 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of each payment until the date of settlement. *
5.Remove all information relating to the loan agreement  from Mr As credit  file.
6.Pay Mr A £100 compensation for the inconvenience and stress caused.
*If Honeycomb considers tax should be deducted  from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide  Mr A with the appropriate tax deduction certificate, so he is able to claim a 
refund, if appropriate.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7410629