K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs D bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She says she 
applied for the PPI policy over the phone. But Barclays has provided  a copy  of her postal 
credit card application form so I think she applied for them through the post. 
At the time,  Mrs D was employed  as a manager.  Shes told us she was entitled to three 
months full sick pay followed by up to three months  at half pay and that she didnt have any 
other means  of repaying her credit  card should  she be unable  to work. Mrs Ds said she was 
in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, hospitalisation,  disability and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Ds credit  card balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 79p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
Barclays has sent us evidence to show that the credit card account closed in January 2008.
Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I wont restate them all here, but Ive read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mrs Ds representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mrs D about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. After  
considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think it 
should be upheld.  I gave the parties  the opportunity  to respond before I considered the 
complaint again.
Ref: DRN76725182Barclays said it had nothing to add in response to my provisional  decision. 
Mrs D, on the other hand, said it was unfair  of me not to uphold the complaint despite  finding 
that there  were significant failings by Barclays during the sale.  She said she wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had she been  given more information about it. 
my findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in January 2008. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable either.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN76725183Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, whats in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mrs Ds case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  whats in my opinion fair and reasonable  in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs D and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs D know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  In the copy  of Mrs Ds signed 
application form its provided, I can see she was asked to tick a box if she wanted to apply 
for PPI under the heading  Barclaycard Payment Protection. It said the Principal Features 
could be found  on reverse  of letter. The box was ticked.  
Ref: DRN76725184So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs D knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mrs D hasnt disputed  that. Looking  at 
what happened when  Barclays sold Mrs D the PPI, including the wording  of the application  
form which instructed her to Simply Sign and Return, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs D. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs D to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
As Ive said,  Barclays has provided  us with a copy of Mrs Ds application form  showing that 
PPI had been selected. It has also provided us with a copy of the policy  terms and conditions  
it says shed have  received  and which I accept on a balance of probabilities applied to 
policies like Mrs Ds. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs D at the time, I dont think Barclays  gave Mrs D 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mrs D any information  about 
the PPI and instead referred her to the Principal Features. While I dont have a copy of the 
Principal Features document or the letter referred  to in the application form, presumably the 
former set out at least some of the key features of the PPI policy. So I think its unlikely 
Mrs D would have agreed to take it out without at least having  a broad understanding of the 
cover it provided  i.e. life, hospitalisation, disability  and unemployment  cover. And I think its 
unlikely Mrs D would have  thought it was free.
But it was Barclays responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ds attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mrs D, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Barclays  adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN76725185Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. Ive considered  these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs D has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mrs D? To what extent  did Mrs D 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs D. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs D suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs D would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mrs D says, and has reiterated  in her response  to my provisional decision, that she wouldnt 
have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the case given the significant  
failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs D had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs D chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs D thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs D ought  reasonably to have known shed have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Barclays  didnt make clear  the ongoing cost information. So while Mrs D didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim wasnt  dissimilar 
Ref: DRN76725186to what shed reasonably have thought from the information she likely  based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs D thought shed  bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims as a result of medical conditions that Mrs D knew about 
or for which she got advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor in the 
12 months immediately before the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that, in order to be able to claim for disability, Mrs D be unable to do 
her normal  job or any paid work that her experience, education or training reasonably  
qualified her to do. 
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs D from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mrs D didnt have  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think she had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs D 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mrs D had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her 
normal job and any alternative  occupation  which in the insurers  view she might  reasonably  
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into her thinking about what  she would have done. And 
I accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs D was unable (through  disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a reasonable alternative 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, including  what Mrs Ds 
said in her response to my provisional decision about her not wanting  the policy had she 
been given better information (and being mindful that her representations about what  she 
would have done are made in support of a claim  for compensation), I consider it more  likely 
than not that Mrs D would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that shed have taken  out the policy in any event.   
Ref: DRN76725187Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but its a relevant  consideration so I take it into account along with 
many other things when  I decide whats in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering the 
purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach 
Ive taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs D wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, theres evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumptions  rebutted  in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs D 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position shed have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we should give proper 
weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she wouldnt have taken out the 
policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs D in the position shed  have been  in if she hadnt  
bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible that Mrs D wouldnt have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that shed still have taken out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances to 
conclude Barclays should pay Mrs D compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than shed have  been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also considered whether Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably wasnt because  of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mrs D, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2001 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach a court might take if it were to find Barclays negligently 
misrepresented the contract to Mrs D and about the remedy  a court  might  award  if it were  to 
find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt  
persuade me to alter my conclusions about whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I thinks fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN76725188circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats,  in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint, and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7672518