K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about issues hes experienced with double glazed windows supplied with 
finance from Shawbrook  Bank Limited.
background 
Mr K was supplied with double glazed  windows and entered into a finance agreement with 
Shawbrook.
Following installation, Mr K experienced issues with the windows hitting each  other when 
opening. Mr K complained  to the supplier  but it went out of business.
Mr K complained to Shawbrook. He said hed been given bad advice by the supplier about 
the window installation and that the supplier had put the phone down on him when he 
complained.
In response, Shawbrook  said that bad advice provided  by the supplier  about  the installation  
didnt amount to a misrepresentation.  It also said that it couldnt  be held responsible for the 
customer service  Mr K had received from the supplier.
Following this Mr K contacted Shawbrook again.  He said the windows didnt close  properly 
which resulted in a draught. Shawbrook  arranged for the windows  to be inspected.
The inspection found that the bay windows werent of satisfactory quality and that a repair  
wouldnt resolve the issue.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He felt that Shawbrook  should have taken a Section 
75 claim forward on Mr Ks behalf.  He was satisfied  that the windows and the installation  
werent of satisfactory  quality and that there had been a breach  of contract. The investigator  
recommended that Shawbrook  should arrange  for the windows to be removed and refund all 
sums paid under the finance agreement.
In response, Shawbrook  said it would arrange for a third party  to remove and replace the 
windows.  It said the third party would also re-fit the blinds but it couldnt guarantee that 
these would fit the new bay window. 
Mr K said he was happy for the work to go ahead. He subsequently  changed  his mind and 
said he wanted all of the windows replaced  at the same time, not just the bay window. Mr K 
said he wanted the loan agreement cancelled so that he could arrange  for a new supplier  to 
re-fit all the windows.
Shawbrook said that in order to consider cancelling the entire agreement it would need to 
see evidence that the other windows were also faulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier or goods or services or the provider  of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. In order to uphold Mr Ks complaint I would  need  to be satisfied  that 
Ref: DRN74485472theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that Shawbrooks response to 
the Section 75 claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
It doesnt appear to be disputed  by Shawbrook that theres been a breach of contract. The 
inspection report concluded  that the right hand centre  windows of the 4 part bay window 
didnt close properly. It recommended a complete replacement of the 4 part bay window. The 
report also said that all of the windows should  be resealed externally.  
Where a breach  of contract is established  under Section 75, Id expect the finance  provider 
to take steps to put things  right as if the breach  hadnt occurred.  In Mr Ks case,  this might 
mean taking  steps  to repair  the window or it might mean removing the window and refunding  
any payments made.
Based on the inspection  report, Im satisfied  that a repair is unlikely to resolve the issue, so 
Im persuaded that removal of the 4 part bay window is necessary.  The inspection  report  
says that the 4 part bay is faulty. It doesnt deal in detail with the rest of the windows, but it 
does say that there are general sealing  issues on all of the windows.  All of the windows have 
been supplied  under a single finance  agreement. 
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that there are issues with all of the windows. Im of the 
view that all of the windows should  be removed  because the installation as a whole wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality..
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Shawbrook Bank  Limited must:
Arrange for the windows to be removed  at no cost to Mr K (or meet the costs  of 
removal as incurred  by Mr Ks new window supplier)
Cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund all payments made by Mr K under the finance agreement  together  with 
simple interest at 8% from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7448547