K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans  
irresponsibly made two loans to him that he could  not afford to repay.  He wants a refund  of 
payments made and compensation.
background 
Mr A tells us he took out two loans, in 2014  and 2017. He says the loans - Ill refer to them 
as loan 1 (2014) and loan 2 (2017) - were  for £200 and £250 respectively. Mr A says that 
during this period he had a number  of other  payday  loans. He states that at the time the 
Satsuma loans were made  he was seriously  in arrears with other  payday lenders.  He says 
his credit file would have reflected this.
Satsuma told us it had issued a final response  letter in May 2018 in relation to the 2017 loan. 
It said it had carried out checks, including with credit reference agencies, and didnt consider 
these checks demonstrated the loan was unaffordable  or unsustainable. And it said in 
respect of the 2014 loan it had also carried out checks. This showed Mr A had disposable 
income of in excess of £230 per month from which to make  the monthly  payment of £93.34.  
It felt this was affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld - but only in respect of loan 2. 
In respect of loan 1 she felt the checks had been adequate and there was nothing to indicate 
the loan was unsuitable. But regarding loan 2 she thought affordability checks hadnt gone 
far enough before that loan was made. She said Satsuma had been informed that in 2015 
Mr A had been in a debt management  plan - but this had later been  cancelled due to missed  
payments. She also thought Satsuma should have known that Mr A had about  eight  defaults  
on other loans. And that loan 1 was still running.  She thought Satsuma should remove  all 
interest and charges on loan 2. 
Satsuma accepted the adjudicators view and agreed to remove the interest  charge  (£250)  
from loan 2 and to remove the adverse information relating to this loan from his credit  file.
Mr A didnt accept this outcome and said he still felt Satsuma made both loans irresponsibly.
Subsequently - although still disagreeing with the adjudicators view - Mr A made an offer to 
pay £70 in full and final settlement of the debt owed. Satsuma said it was prepared  to accept 
this. Unfortunately, as of 24 June 2019,  Mr A has not made this payment.  As its not been  
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr A has encountered financial difficulties over a number of years  and I 
appreciate this is a distressing and debilitating experience.
In order to fully explain  my decision I should briefly  outline our approach  where theres a 
complaint of unaffordable  and/or irresponsible lending.
Ref: DRN77854112Lenders are required to make checks which are adequate and proportionate prior to granting  
a loan. Its up to each individual business  to decide  what checks  it needs  to make - but 
usually Id expect  to see evidence of income  and expenditure and possibly additional checks  
including with a credit reference agency. For loan 1 Mr A declared a monthly  income of 
£1,500 and expenditure of £450. This resulted in a significant amount of over £1,000 
disposable income. But I can see Satsuma decided - as part of its internal  systems - to apply 
an additional  amount of £817 by way of extra safeguards and buffers. This left a disposable 
income of about  £232 per month.  The amount being  lent was fairly  modest  at £200 plus 
interest of about £80. - to be repaid over 13 weeks. In my opinion  the checks were adequate  
and proportionate to the amount  loaned and I dont think it was either lent irresponsibly  or 
that it was unaffordable. So I dont uphold the complaint about this loan.
As Satsuma  has accepted  the adjudicators view that checks relating to loan 2 were not 
adequate - and that it was not affordable  or suitable  for Mr A - I neednt  go into any further 
detail. But for completeness I confirm that I reached  the same  conclusion and for the same 
reasons. So I uphold the complaint in respect of loan 2.
Where there is a finding of unaffordable and/or irresponsible lending we would normally 
expect only the capital sum to be repaid - and that any interest and charges would be waived 
or refunded. Thats what the adjudicator recommended in respect of loan 2. And I agree with 
that view.
But here things  moved  on and whilst  not accepting the outcome Mr A did make an offer - to 
pay £70 from his savings  in full and final settlement of both loans. Satsuma accepted this in 
an email of 11 April 2019. And it said upon  this payment being made it would remove details 
of both accounts from Mr As credit  file.
Despite a number  of reminders and attempts at contact by the adjudicator it appears this 
sum still hasnt been paid as of 24 June. When Mr A rejected the adjudicators view it was 
necessary for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final decision to be made. 
And whilst a proposed  resolution was later agreed - as Mr A hasnt complied with the terms 
of that offer - Im still required  to make a final decision. 
Whilst Satsuma agreed  to accept a sum of £70 in settlement of both accounts - and delete 
the account details from Mr As credit file - I do not think it is fair and reasonable that it 
should be bound by that offer indefinitely. And I think Mr A has had ample  time to pay this 
sum - particularly as it was apparently being  sourced from some savings.
So I can only conclude that for a reason Im not aware of Mr A has had second thoughts and 
chosen not to accept  this proposed resolution.
In those circumstances I intend  to make my final decision  in the same terms as would have 
applied had the offer not been made.  This is in line with the recommendations of the 
adjudicator.
It is of course a matter  for Satsuma if it wishes to still honour the terms of the later offer. My 
decision simply makes  it clear that it is no longer bound to do so.
Ref: DRN77854113In summary,  I uphold the complaint only in respect  of loan 2. Ill require Satsuma to remove  
the interest from that loan and to arrange  for any adverse  details reported  to be removed 
from Mr As credit  file. I shant ask Satsuma to do anything in respect of loan 1. This means  it 
can commence such collection activity as it finds appropriate and neednt take any steps  to 
remove the record of loan 1 from Mr As credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I uphold this complaint - but only in part.
Im requiring  Provident  Personal Credit  Limited  trading as Satsuma Loans to take the 
following action in respect of loan 2 only:
1.Remove the interest payment  ( and charges if any) and seek  only repayment  of the 
capital sum of £250;
2.Refund any payments  of interest made by Mr A on loan 2 and apply them to the 
capital sum remaining; 
3.Arrange for adverse  details relating  to loan 2 to be removed from Mr As credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785411