K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the poor service he received from staff at a branch of Nationwide 
Building Society when  he tried to cash a cheque.
Ref: DRN71112572background
Mr D visited a Nationwide branch whilst on holiday to cash a cheque. But staff refused  his 
request as cashing cheques wasnt a facility Nationwide now provided,  although  it had done 
so some years previously.
Mr D asked to speak  to the branch manager, but spoke to another  staff member instead  as 
he was told that the manager was on holiday that day. A heated  discussion apparently then 
followed, with Nationwide  staff accusing  Mr D of behaving aggressively  and saying that they 
would call the police.
A cash withdrawal was processed for Mr D and he left the branch.
A few days  later he received a letter from Nationwide giving him 30 days  notice to close his 
account because  of his behaviour to staff during  his branch visit.
Mr D complained to Nationwide who investigated  what had happened and took statements 
from the staff involved. Nationwide continued  to maintain that Mr D had been  abusive and 
aggressive, but following discussions with his local branch,  who said that they were happy  to 
continue to meet his banking needs,  the closure notice was withdrawn.
Mr D complained to us. He said he wanted  compensation for the humiliation and 
embarrassment caused to him by staff during his branch  visit. He denied that his behaviour 
had been aggressive, and asked  for the audio  and cctv recordings from his visit. He said he 
believed he had been discriminated against  because of his foreign sounding  name. He also 
said staff lied when  they told him the branch manager wasnt  there because he believes it 
was the manager who ultimately  signed his cash withdrawal slip that day. He said that staff 
should be sacked  and that the compensation should  be paid directly from their salaries.
In summary,  our adjudicator didnt consider that Nationwide had done anything wrong. 
Nationwide had said it no longer had a copy of the cctv recording and branches didnt 
operate an audio recording  system. The adjudicator noted that as she hadnt  been present 
during Mr Ds visit she couldnt comment on exactly what  had happened,  but having looked 
at staff statements  she considered that staff had acted professionally.
She said that Mr Ds account terms and conditions allowed Nationwide  to close his account 
with immediate effect in certain circumstances, in particular if he was judged  to have 
behaved aggressively to staff.  Nationwide had in fact given him 30 days notice of its 
intention to close his account, but then rescinded that notice as his local branch was 
prepared to continue  to provide him with banking facilities.
With respect to Mr Ds allegation of racism she said that was a legal matter  and not one that 
we could look in to.
Mr D was very unhappy with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary  he said that the adjudicator had been biased in favour of Nationwide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71112573As background I should say that financial organisations  are not required to offer banking 
facilities to all potential customers. It is entirely a matter  for them  to decide whether they 
want to accept any individual  as a customer. And where they do agree to do so, their terms 
and conditions generally allow them to end that arrangement at will as long as they give the 
required notice. Additionally it is usual to find that financial organisations can close  accounts 
with immediate effect under certain circumstances.  Common examples would be where  
fraud is suspected,  or a customer  has been judged to have harassed staff or behaved  
aggressively towards them.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds account with Nationwide are consistent with all I have set 
out above.
Mr D was used to withdrawing cash from his Nationwide account by calling in to his local 
branch with a cheque  made out to cash. And so when he visited  a different branch whilst on 
holiday he expected  to be able to do the same thing, but found he couldnt.
Nationwide has said that this is a facility that, in general, it no longer provides. But Mr D 
couldnt reasonably have  been expected to know that as he was able to do so at his local 
branch.
It would appear that the discussion between Mr D and staff then became quite heated,  
although Mr D maintains that he was never  rude or aggressive. As I wasnt there,  and 
Nationwide no longer has the cctv recording,  I am unable to view the actual exchange that 
took place. But I have read the accounts  of the event that staff provided as part of 
Nationwides investigation, and it is clear from these that they found him to be rude and 
aggressive. And whilst  I accept that this may not have been his intention, it is plainly how he 
came across  to them. It may of course be that he thought that staff were  dealing with him 
less than professionally  and discourteously. But Im afraid that I do not have sufficient 
evidence to find that that was the case.  I should also say that branch  staff are generally well 
trained to deal with a range of situations, and it would  be unusual to find them being 
deliberately unhelpful and obstructive to customers.  
Once Nationwide had decided that Mr Ds behaviour to staff had been unacceptable,  which  
was a decision it was entitled to take,  it wrote to him saying it was closing his account. 
Based on the account terms and conditions it could have done this with immediate effect,  but 
it gave him 30 days notice. The closure notice was however ultimately  rescinded  as Mr Ds 
local branch was happy to retain  him as a customer.
Mr D has said that he believed staff lied to him when they said the manager was on holiday. 
But in my view the truth or otherwise of this assertion is not of particular significance.  
Although Mr D asked to speak to a manager,  Nationwide was under no obligation to agree to 
his request if staff felt that they were able to deal with the matter.  
In summary  therefore, and although  I recognise  that Mr D feels  he was very badly treated by 
Nationwide staff during  his branch  visit, Im afraid  that I cannot fairly conclude that staff 
behaved unreasonably.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Ref: DRN71112574June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111257