K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained that Santander UK Plc hadnt  refunded a duplicated  transaction on his 
credit card account for him. 
background
Mr A said hed noticed a duplicated transaction of £96 made on 28 June 2018. He contacted  
Santander to raise a complaint about this on 23 January 2019. Mr A said that Santander 
wanted him to provide evidence of his purchase, but the tickets were  already used at the 
event, and he couldnt prove  anything without them. He also said he didnt have the emails 
any more, as the transaction was so long ago. But he thought it was physically impossible to 
put through two purchases in the time that Santander suggested  it had been  done.  
Santander said it wrote to Mr A to ask for further  information. Hed filled in a form to say this 
was a duplicate  transaction,  but it hadnt  received any evidence  to support what  he said.
Santander said it couldnt raise a chargeback for a duplicate transaction  because  the 
transactions were  several minutes apart,  and security checks  seemed to have been done 
twice. So it didnt seem  to be a duplicate. But as Mr A said hed only received  one ticket,  
Santander had offered  to raise a goods/services not received chargeback.  It had written  
out to Mr A again,  to see if he could provide any evidence to support what he was saying. 
But it still didnt get any further details or evidence of the transactions. 
Santander said that the rules required it to put forward a description of Mr As complaint, in 
enough detail  to enable all parties  to understand the dispute,  and a reasonably specific  
description of the goods or services  purchased. And it didnt have that. So it hadnt  been 
able to make  a successful  chargeback request, because Mr A had unfortunately not been  
able to supply  any evidence to support what he was saying. 
Santander said it was sorry  Mr A was unhappy,  and it paid him £25 for call costs. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said this chargeback  claim seemed to be 
out of time, and she thought it was likely  the claim would be unsuccessful. She didnt think  
Santander made a mistake or treated Mr A unfairly by not pursuing his chargeback  request. 
Mr A wanted  a final decision on his case from an ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
There are strict timescales for raising  chargeback  disputes. Those rules are set by the card 
scheme operator, whose  symbol is on Mr As card. Santander must follow those  rules.
Most chargebacks need to be raised  within 120 days  of purchase. If this was a duplicate  
transaction, Id expect  the deadline to be 120 days from the transaction.  So its likely 
Santander was out of time to be able to raise a chargeback request under this head  for Mr A.
Ref: DRN76247122There is an exception where a service is provided, and the service is tickets for a future 
event. In that case, it may be possible to raise  the chargeback  up to 120 days after services  
were to be provided. 
But I think its reasonable to say, for Santander  to use this exception, it would  need  to know 
when the event was. And Mr A wasnt sure about  this. Hes suggested it was in December.  
So I dont  think that Santander was able to show that this chargeback  claim was in time.
Santander has also told us that to go ahead  with a chargeback claim, it needed a reasonable 
amount of detail to show what  had happened. Its pointed  us to the rules that say that. And 
the only evidence  which was available in this case was Mr As recollection  of the purchase. 
A number  of key details,  like the date of the event, seem to be missing. So I dont think 
Santander was able to make  out a good case for a successful chargeback for Mr A.
Theres no automatic right for customers to insist that banks  attempt a chargeback  on their 
behalf. There is a cost to banks  in making these  requests, and it doesnt seem fair to me to 
expect Santander  to pay that, if its really not likely at all to win the claim for Mr A. So I 
wouldnt necessarily expect Santander  to incur those costs,  and raise  a chargeback, if it 
doesnt seem like there would be any reasonable prospect  of that chargeback  succeeding.  
Because Santander couldnt establish that this chargeback  was in time, and because  it also 
appears to me to not to have had any reasonable prospect of succeeding on the evidence 
that was available to Santander,  I dont think that Santander made  a mistake when it didnt 
pursue this request for Mr A, or refund  the transaction. 
Mr A said he spent  a lot of time chasing  this over the phone.  Santander hasnt been able to 
confirm that. Weve suggested  Mr A could send us phone  records  to show these calls, but 
we havent received those. In these circumstances,  I think  the payment of £25 that 
Santander made to cover  call costs  to it provides a fair and reasonable outcome. 
I dont think that Santander has to do any more  now. Because of that, I dont think  that 
Mr As complaint should be upheld. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7624712