K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that a sofa he bought using a fixed sum loan agreement  with V12 
Retail Finance Limited was of unsatisfactory quality and it was mispresented. 
background
Mr M acquired a new two seater and a three seater  sofa in September  2018. Mr M says he 
chose the two sofas because they were  advertised  as being suitable for busy  homes with 
pets and children  Mr M says he has two small dogs. Mr M says after five weeks  use, the 
leather on the two seater sofa was beginning to tear and marked easily.  
V12 say an independent  inspection was carried out and the report  confirmed there were 
scratches on the two seater sofa.  The report also mentioned that the damage  was possibly 
caused by Mr Ms dogs but the inspector offered to repair  the damage,  as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr M says he wants to reject the two seater sofa as he doesnt think  its of 
satisfactory quality and that it isnt suitable for busy homes with pets and children as 
mentioned in the sofa advert.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. She said the damage to the sofa appeared to 
be consistent with animal  claws rather than down to a manufacturing fault. She also said the 
advert wasnt misleading and that the sofa was subject to damage outside  of normal  use. Mr 
M disagreed.  He said the inspector offered to re-pigment the sofa rather  than repair it which 
would fade after a number of weeks and remained of the opinion that the sofa advert was a 
misrepresentation. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Mr M has told us he was unhappy with the quality of the independent  inspection  instructed 
by the retailer.  So I gave him an opportunity to instruct his own independent inspection of the 
sofa before  I finalise  my decision. However,  Mr M did not respond to this. So in the absence 
of any other  inspection report,  I will consider the findings of the report V12 sent us in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
was the two seater sofa of satisfactory quality?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint and was implied  into the 
contract when Mr M bought the goods.  Under  contracts like these, there are implied terms 
that the goods supplied  will be of satisfactory  quality. To be considered satisfactory, the 
goods would  need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account  any description  of the goods, the price and all the other  
relevant circumstances.  This was a brand new two seater leather sofa,  so Id expect it to be 
of high quality.
What I am considering  here is V12s response to Mr Ms s75 complaint. And s75 gives Mr M 
a like claim against V12 for breach or misrepresentation as he would have against the 
supplier. In order to see if V12s response to Mr Ms claim was fair, I have gone on to 
consider if the supplier  did breach  its contract with Mr M or misrepresent the goods to him.
Ref: DRN79487722Mr M told us he noticed tears and marks on the two seater sofa after around five weeks of 
use. So based on this, Im satisfied the damage wasnt  there  at the point of sale and the 
damage which Mr M refers to has happened  over a short period of time.
The inspection report says the damage was possibly as a result of Mr Ms dogs who are 
allowed up on the sofa. Mr M says the damage  wasnt caused by his two dogs as they are 
only small and the damage  was due to the leather  on the two seater being quite thin. Mr M 
says the three seater sofa has no damage  on it whatsoever.  
In considering whether the sofa was of unsatisfactory quality, Ive considered whether the 
marking and tearing was as a result of a problem with the actual leather. 
Firstly, despite what Mr M has said theres  no persuasive evidence  that the leather on the 
two seater  sofa isnt of the same  quality of that on the three seater  sofa. I note that the 
expert report didnt pick up on unexpected thinness in the material.
Secondly, from looking at the photos of the damage, Im satisfied the tears  and marks 
appear to be as a result  of damage caused to the sofa rather  than a failing with the leather 
material and its robustness. And I think the tears on the sofa are consistent with claw marks 
which is also mentioned  in the inspection  report. 
I note Mr M is unhappy with the quality of the independent inspection report. But in absence 
of other  contradictory expert evidence, I think the inspection report  seems fairly plausible,  
particularly in light of the photos I have seen. 
Mr M has sent us photos of his old sofa which he says he had for a number of years and 
despite using  his old sofa in the same  way as he does with the new sofas, there  was no 
marks or tears. Im unable to comment on the quality of Mr Ms old sofa as my decision is 
deciding on the quality of the two seater sofa that Mr M complains  about.   But I have 
considered the overall question of durability  and what might be expected of a sofa like the 
one Mr M has purchased. And I think the material isnt reasonably durable in the 
circumstances, But despite  the description  of the sofa in the advert,  I dont think  it would be 
reasonably expected to withstand claw marks.
I can appreciate Mr Ms frustrations but in the absence of something more  compelling, Im 
not persuaded in these circumstances that the two seater sofa was of unsatisfactory  quality.
was the sofa misrepresented  by the retailer?
Mr M says the retailer misrepresented the sofa in its advert as being suitable for busy  home 
with family  and pets. Mr M has sent us a copy of the advert and I can see it has the following 
caption: Easy  care,  easy clean, highly durable,  pigment coated, even coloured, natural 
leather Ideal for busy homes with pets and children.
The retailer  and V12 have said the advert describes the sofa as easy care and easy clean - 
which they say means  the sofa is easy to wipe down and this is what  makes it suitable for 
busy homes. I can see the advert also refers to the sofa being  highly durable which  I think 
means its leather  material is hard wearing. I dont think  it guarantees complete  resistance to 
pets who may be allowed to jump  onto and sit on the sofa.  And I think  it unlikely any 
manufacturer could  provide a definite guarantee that a product, such as a leather  sofa,  could 
be completely resilient to pets. So based on this, Im not satisfied the sofa was 
misrepresented in its advert.
Ref: DRN79487723I note the inspection report offered to repair the damage to the two seater sofa.  So Mr M 
should contact  V12 directly to arrange for the retailer  to carry out the repair if he now wishes.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948772