K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that a loan advanced  to him by AvantCredit of UK LLC was unaffordable.
background
Mr L took out a loan for £1,000 with AvantCredit in June 2016.  The loan was for a term of 12 
months and the monthly payments were £103.41, with the final payment being £103.37. 
Mr L says that the loan was unaffordable from the start. He says that AvantCredit failed to 
carry out sufficient affordability checks and that the loan was advanced to him at a time 
when he had other liabilities  including payday  loans.
AvantCredit says it had assessed the affordability  of the loan before lending and based on its 
checks it thought  Mr L could afford it. Mr L was unhappy with the response and complained 
to this service. He wants a refund of all interest  and charges. The investigator didnt uphold  
Mr Ls complaint. She said that AvantCredit  had assessed Mr Ls loan application fairly and 
had carried out appropriate affordability checks.
Mr L disagreed. He said that AvantCredit  should have looked into his expenses in more 
detail. He also said that he had been  successful in other complaints he had made about 
unaffordable lending,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Before lending money, AvantCredit  has to undertake reasonable affordability checks. These  
are to ensure a customer can repay  the prospective borrowing in a sustainable  way without it 
adversely impacting their financial situation. AvantCredit need to get sufficient information  
from these checks to make an informed decision about whether to lend to the customer. 
Exactly what  each lender should  consider is up to them to decide  theres no specific list of 
checks a lender must carry out before deciding to advance a loan.  But the guidance  and 
rules for lenders list things they may wish to consider. A key point  is that the checks must  be 
proportionate, and must take into account  a number of different things  such  as how much 
is being lent and when it is due to be repaid. 
So Ive looked  at what has happened in the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint, in light of 
what is expected  of AvantCredit as outlined above.
When Mr L applied for his loan he completed an income and expenditure form. In the form 
he declared that his net monthly  income was £3,697.10. AvantCredit says it verified this 
through a bank statement  and then cross checked it against his credit report. Mr Ls credit 
report actually shows that his net monthly  income was higher at £5,000. Even  if Mr Ls net 
monthly income was at the lower  amount  of £3,697.10 he still had enough disposal income 
to meet  the loan repayment  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN72406742In the income  and expenditure  form, Mr L declared that his total monthly  expenditure was 
£875. But he says that he also had other expenses including payday loans, overdrawn bank 
account and money  owed  to family  members  etc. He feels  that AvantCredit should have 
looked into his finances in more  detail to see this.
AvantCredit are entitled to rely on the expenditure information provided by Mr L and they 
also checked the information against his credit report  and a bank  statement. And based  on 
the information Mr L provided and the checks AvantCredit completed,  he would be left with 
enough disposable income  to meet his monthly  loan repayments of £103.41. From  what Ive 
seen, I think the checks  carried out were  proportionate to the amount  that Mr L was 
borrowing and I dont  think  AvantCredit  shouldve had any reason  to consider the loan would  
be unaffordable  to Mr L. 
Mr L also went on to meet the loan repayment  on time each month until the loan was paid 
off. Again  that doesnt suggest  the loan was unaffordable for Mr L.  
Mr L has mentioned that he has been successful in complaints  about  unaffordable lending  
against other businesses. Every lender  has its own criteria for assessing affordability  - and 
this service looks at each case on its own merits. So this isnt a factor  I can take into 
account. 
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into consideration,  Im satisfied that 
AvantCredit carried out appropriate  affordability  checks which were proportionate to the 
amount that Mr L was borrowing. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7240674