K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that One Insurance Limited  (One Insurance) has unfairly voided his 
motor insurance and refused to pay a claim.
background
In June 2018 Mr B was involved  in a minor accident when driving his wifes car. Mr B has 
explained that he admitted fault for the accident, and it was dealt with under his wifes 
insurance policy.
Mr Bs own motor insurance renewed in September 2018 and his car was unfortunately 
stolen in November  2018. One Insurance voided Mr Bs motor insurance policy and refused 
to consider a claim for the theft of his car. It said Mr B failed to tell it about  the accident  in 
June 2018, and if he had, that it wouldnt have renewed his policy.
Mr B has explained that he wasnt aware  he had to provide  information  about the accident to 
One Insurance.
Our Investigator  considered Mr Bs complaint and thought One Insurance had made  it clear  
to Mr B what information he needed to provide when the policy renewed, and that Mr B didnt 
provide the information he should have.
As One Insurance  would not have renewed Mr Bs motor insurance  policy  had he provided  
the information, our Investigator thought One Insurance had acted fairly  in voiding Mr Bs 
insurance policy and treating  it as though it had never existed.
Mr B disagreed with our Investigator, so this complaint  has now been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to
uphold it.
When Mr Bs motor  insurance policy renewed  he had a responsibility  - under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. And for One Insurance to take any action at all, it needs  to 
show he didnt do this and that he made whats described as a qualifying  misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a
consumer failed to take reasonable care.
Before Mr Bs motor insurance  policy renewed One Insurance sent him a renewal  notice by 
post. I appreciate  Mr B has told us he didnt receive  this document,  but One Insurance  has 
shown us enough supporting evident that this was sent. So, on balance  I think  its likely this 
was received, and if it wasnt, I am unable to hold One Insurance responsible  for issues  with 
the postal service.
One Insurance has also said it sent a renewal  notice to Mr B by email, which Mr B 
acknowledges was received, and as he was happy with the price, he let the policy  renew 
without looking at the document in detail.
Ref: DRN74020332The renewal  notice stated  under  the main title Important Information:
Duty of Disclosure
If your circumstances, or any other material information, have changed during the last year 
you must advise us before you renew  your policy. If you do not this may result  in your 
insurance being invalidated.  If you are in doubt about whether something is relevant, you 
should ask us. You must give us the new information by phone or in writing.
A list of examples  is then given of what type of information should be given by Mr B. The list 
included Any losses, accidents or claims  when driving this or another  vehicle.
With the above information  in mind I think Mr B should reasonably  have been aware of when 
his policy  was due to renew, and that he would need  to tell One Insurance  about  the 
accident he had been involved in when driving his wifes car.
In view of this, I think Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
But to show Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under CIDRA  One Insurance 
needs to show  it would  either  not have offered the policy at all if Mr B hadnt made the
Misrepresentation, or that it would have  offered it on different terms.
One Insurance has shown that it wouldnt have renewed Mr Bs policy if he hadnt  made  a
misrepresentation. So, Im satisfied  there  was a qualifying misrepresentation. A qualifying
misrepresentation is considered either  deliberate or reckless or careless.  I think  it is fair to 
say Mr B made  a careless misrepresentation. 
I think thats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances as I accept that he didnt intend to 
mislead One Insurance when he didnt  provide  the information it had asked for.
Where an insurer wouldnt  have offered a policy  if there hadnt been a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer  has the option  under CIDRA - to void the policy  and refund
the premium. I understand One Insurance  voided  Mr Bs policy and refunded  his premium.
I understand Mr B feels this outcome is unfair  as the accident he was involved in was minor  
and by not covering his claim Mr B will have to pay the remaining payments due on his car 
until the end of his agreement, followed by a large settlement when the term comes to an 
end. But Im satisfied  One Insurance has acted  fairly  and reasonably  when voiding his
policy because it wouldnt have renewed his policy had Mr B provided the information it had 
asked for. 
Ref: DRN74020333my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7402033