K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003.  Mr O says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr O didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I say this 
because he has ticked the credit card application form to say that, yes, he wants the 
PPI, when he couldve have  ticked it to say no he didnt want  the PPI, and he has 
signed the form.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr O got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - and it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. I say this because although he 
had 3-6 months of sick pay entitlement  from his employer  and approximately 6 
months of savings, the PPI would have paid out 10% of the outstanding balance  on 
his credit card for up to 12 months  in addition to his sick pay, or if he lost his job. Ive 
thought about the 180 day period hed have had to wait after the policy  was sold to 
make a claim if he became unemployed. But I dont think hed have been put off 
buying the PPI by this as hed been  in his job for nearly a year and I think its unlikely 
hed have thought he would lose his job soon. And at 79p per £100  of the balance on 
his credit card, it also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
Ive thought about everything Mr O has said - but his points dont change my decision.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN70626732my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr O any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7062673