K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2001. Mrs L says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs L took out the store card and PPI with another business  but FICL has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs L says that she didnt know the PPI was optional, and it was added  without  her 
knowledge  but I think that FICL  made it clear that the PPI was optional, and that Mrs L 
chose to take it out, although I can understand why she doesnt remember  this as it was so 
long ago. I say this because FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Ls store card application  
and I can see that the policy is presented as optional, and Mrs L has signed to select  it. This 
is separate to her signature for the store card itself. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. The 
cover did exclude  claims for pre-existing medical conditions, and Mrs L has said that she 
suffered from one  but that it was mild and didnt affect her day to day life, and she never 
had to take time off work because of it. I dont think that Mrs L would  have thought she would 
ever have needed to claim  for this condition  so I dont think this wouldve influenced her 
decision to take out the PPI. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
 and she would still have been able to make a claim for other medical  conditions   so it 
could have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said, including what  shes  said about  having savings 
and sick pay she couldve used to make her repayments. But the PPI couldve paid out on 
top of this, and for longer than Mrs L had cover  for. So this point doesnt change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should  deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where  PPI was sold. 
Ref: DRN79884082But Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  wasnt Mrs Ls lender. So I dont think  these rules 
apply. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7988408