K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) have handled her legal expenses  
insurance claim unfairly.
Ageas uses intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance on their behalf, so 
any reference to the insurer  in this decision should  also be taken as including  such 
intermediaries.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2019,  which  forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was thinking of reaching  a slightly  different outcome  to the investigator,  
as I didnt think it was fair to ask Ageas to reimburse Mrs Ps legal costs expended prior to 
her receiving a positive prospects assessment from her solicitor. But seeing as Mrs P had 
demonstrated that her claim met the terms of the policy  following the positive assessment, I 
said I intended asking  Ageas to cover her reasonable  legal costs  from that point on. 
Mrs P didnt agree and responded  with several  points.  In summary:
She was put in the position of having to make the claim, having  received patently 
incorrect advice from the solicitors helpline, so Ageas  put her in a situation where 
she had to incur costs to prove a case that arose  due to the incorrect  advice given to 
her;
She asked Ageas  to confirm if they would cover her legal costs during ongoing 
discussions with ACAS, but they gave no answer  and it was necessary for her to 
seek legal advice  at her own cost.
Ageass decision  to engage  their own barrister seemed to be a delaying tactic  used  
to undermine the progress of her case.
It is unfair for Ageas  to avoid  responsibilities owed to their customers through relying 
on advice from third parties.
Mrs P didnt think it was fair to deny reimbursement of her costs incurred prior to 
26 October 2017 as they were caused by the same  event and were  paid to the same lawyer 
as the later fees that are to be covered. 
Ageas had nothing further to add, but requested that the 8% interest be calculated up until 
the date of the investigators first view, rather than the date they are actually reimbursed. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  both parties  most  
recent submissions  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  the case  in part for the same  reasons set 
out in my provisional  decision. But I would like to address  the additional points raised by both 
parties.
Mrs P has raised a number of points in relation to the advice she received through the 
solicitors helpline, and says that the incorrect advice led to her incurring costs in proving her 
case. But any advice  provided by the solicitors through their helpline is the primary 
responsibility of the solicitors and, as such,  should be taken up with the relevant firm or the 
Legal Ombudsman rather than the Ageas.
Ref: DRN76870852Theres also no evidence to suggest  that the seemingly incorrect  advice Mrs P received 
through the helpline had any bearing  on the prospects assessment that was later relied upon 
by Ageas. And there  is nothing to suggest that Ageas ever relied on any of this advice in 
their assessment of her claim.  So this isnt something the insurer  would be liable for, as it 
was the prospects assessment Ageas correctly  relied upon  when initially  choosing  to decline 
the claim,  rather than any advice Mrs P received through the solicitors helpline.  
Mrs P is also unhappy that she had to seek legal advice at her own costs when she was in 
ongoing discussions with ACAS and her employer. But the purpose of such  negotiations and 
the ACAS early  conciliation process an is to avoid the need  for lawyers and a formal  tribunal. 
The policy would not have covered any such legal costs incurred during this time,  given  that 
the requirements for cover had not been  met. So this isnt something I will be asking Ageas 
to consider reimbursing.  
Mrs P says that Ageas decision to engage their own barrister was a delaying  tactic used to 
undermine the progress of her case.  But an insurer is entitled to seek further professional 
opinion where  there  are conflicting legal assessments.  And Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence to suggest that Ageas only sought  further  legal advice  which  wouldve come at a 
further cost to the insurer  in order to frustrate the progress of Mrs Ps claim. I appreciate 
Mrs P does not feel its fair for Ageas to decline  her claim based on advice from third parties. 
But insurers  are not legal  experts.  And insurance  claims that concern legal disputes  carry a 
level of complexity that often makes it necessary to seek the advice of legal professionals.  
And as I set out in my provisional decision, its reasonable that an insurer  would seek  to rely 
on such advice.   
I appreciate that Mrs P wants Ageas to reimburse her costs incurred prior to 
26 October 2017. But, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I will not be asking 
Ageas to do this as Mrs P had not proved her claim until that point.
Ageas argue  that the 8% interest  awarded on top of Mrs Ps costs  should be calculated  up 
until the date of the investigators first view (which they accepted),  rather  than the date the 
costs are actually reimbursed. But the purpose of the 8% interest  is to compensate  Mrs P for 
being deprived of the money  that Ageas should  have covered. Mrs P has been out of pocket 
since 26 October 2017, and throughout the duration of this complaint. The fact that it has 
taken time for the correct  outcome to be decided  does  not mean that the interest should be 
limited, because Mrs P would not have been  deprived of this money if Ageas had properly 
covered these costs  in the first place. So I will still be directing Ageas to pay 8% interest up 
until the date they reimburse Mrs Ps reasonable costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above  as well as the reasoning set out in my provisional  decision 
 I uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay her 
reasonable legal costs  incurred as of 26 October 2017 when the supportive prospects 
assessment was issued  by her solicitor.
Ageas should  also pay simple  interest  of 8% per year (less any tax properly deductible)  on 
any of these payments  Mrs P has made  to her solicitors in respect of the employment claim 
from the date she paid those costs, until theyre  reimbursed.
Ref: DRN76870853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76870854COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) have handled her legal expenses insurance 
claim unfairly.
Ageas uses  intermediaries to administer  their legal  expenses insurance on their behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer in this decision  should also be taken as including such intermediaries.
background
Mrs P submitted a claim under her legal expenses insurance in September 2017, seeking assistance 
with a dispute  with her employer. Ageas referred the matter to their panel  solicitors,  who reported that 
Mrs Ps case  did not hold sufficient  prospects of success, so they denied  her claim.
Mrs P disagreed with the panel solicitors opinion, so Ageas told her that she could challenge it with a 
legal assessment from another solicitor  at her own cost and, if supportive,  they would  then consider 
her claim further. So Mrs P supplied a legal assessment from her own solicitor that concluded her 
case did enjoy reasonable prospects of success. 
Given that there were  two conflicting legal opinions,  Ageas subsequently sought the opinion of an 
independent barrister, who concluded that the claim  did not have reasonable prospects.  But Mrs Ps 
solicitor argued that the barrister had misinterpreted  the law and submitted further points of 
consideration. The barrister  reconsidered the assessment  in light of the solicitors comments, but was 
still of the opinion that the claim would not succeed. So Ageas explained  that it would not consider 
Mrs Ps claim any further unless she was able to provide a legal challenge  from another  suitably 
qualified barrister.
Mrs P subsequently instructed her own barrister, who concluded that her case did enjoy sufficient 
prospects of success, so Ageas then accepted her claim. Mrs P then raised a complaint, as she felt 
that Ageas handling of the matter had been obstructive and intended  to delay her ability  to bring  her 
claim. She also complained about the quality of legal advice shed been given by the panel solicitors 
on their helpline.  And Mrs P wanted all of her legal  costs  reimbursed shed spent in demonstrating 
that her claim had reasonable prospects.  
Ageas said theyd already  since  agreed  to pay the fees of Mrs Ps barrister as a gesture of goodwill. 
But they also said that Mrs Ps claim  only satisfied the policy terms once the positive assessment had 
been received by her barrister, so they refused  to cover  any of her solicitors  fees prior to that point.
Our investigator partly upheld Mrs Ps complaint. She didnt think  Ageas had been particularly 
obstructive or unreasonable in their handling of Mrs Ps claim. And she didnt think  we could consider 
the quality of advice by provided by the solicitor  via their helpline. But the investigator thought that 
Ageas should backdate the cover to the point that Mrs Ps solicitor confirmed she had reasonable 
prospects  being the 26 October  2017  as this was when she first met the requirements of cover 
under the policy. 
Ageas accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mrs P argued that they should  also reimburse  
her expenses prior to 26 October 2017, as these costs were  incurred in order to show that the panel 
solicitors advice was incorrect. The investigator considered this and agreed that Ageas should also 
cover the costs incurred in obtaining the initial prospects assessment from her own solicitor, as she 
didnt think it was fair that Mrs P should bear this cost given that the claim was ultimately covered 
under the policy terms.
Ageas disagreed, arguing that they should not be penalised for something which is ultimately  a 
difference in professional opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN76870855my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The points Mrs P initially  raised in relation to the service she received from Ageas, as well as the 
advice received from the solicitors, are no longer disputed. So I wont  consider these points  of 
complaint any further in this decision. But the issue that remains in dispute is the extent to which  
Ageas should cover  Mrs Ps reasonable costs after they initially declined her claim. 
The policy terms and conditions set out the requirements for cover under  the policy:
Prospects of Success
You only have  cover under  this policy where  there is a more than 50% chance  of winning  the 
case and achieving a positive outcome.
At any time we may, but only when supported by independent  legal advice, form the view that 
you do not have a more than 50% chance of winning  the case and achieving a positive 
outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further support.
Ageas panel solicitors initially reported that Mrs Ps claim did not hold sufficient  prospects, and so 
they declined her claim in line with the terms set out above. Ageas rightly  offered Mrs P the option of 
challenging the legal assessment. But the policy does not mention anything about what costs will or 
wont be covered where any such challenge proves to be successful.
It is well established principle that it is for the policyholder to prove  they have a claim. And any costs 
that may be incurred in the course of proving that there is in fact a valid claim are not typically  the 
responsibility of the insurer. If an insurer was seeking to rely on an exclusion however  and the 
policyholder incurred costs in the course of demonstrating why the exclusion shouldnt  apply  then I 
would expect the insurer to cover such costs. But in this case, the term requiring sufficient prospects  
of success is not an exclusionary term, but a pre-condition of cover. This means that the burden was 
on Mrs P to show that her claim met the requirements  under  the policy.  So I dont think it would be fair 
to ask Ageas to cover  her solicitors costs  expended in proving  her claim, unless the insurer  had acted 
incorrectly in deciding whether to indemnify.  
I appreciate that Mrs P feels Ageas incorrectly  relied on the prospects assessment provided  by their 
panel solicitors. But its reasonable that an insurer would rely on the expert opinion  of their panel 
solicitors, unless theres something patently wrong with the assessment that even a lay person  would  
spot. And with regards  to Mrs Ps initial prospects assessment, I dont think  it meets this threshold of 
being obviously wrong  particularly  given  that two specialist barristers even had different thoughts on 
the matter. So I consider that the disagreement surrounding the assessment was due to a difference 
in professional opinion rather than any obvious error  in law. The law surrounding employment  rights 
can be complex  and has been in a state of flux over recent  years. Indeed,  the case of Efobi v Royal 
Mail Group Ltd UKEAT/0203/16/DA cited by Mrs Ps solicitor as the correct authority  in her case  has 
recently been overturned by the Court of Appeal a matter  of days ago, as it was held that the 
Employment Appeals  Tribunal had erred  in its approach to the burden of proof under the 
Equality Act 2010:  Efobi v Royal Mail Group Ltd [2019] EWCA  Civ 18.
So, given that I dont consider the panel solicitors assessment  to have been patently wrong,  I dont 
think Ageas  acted incorrectly  by relying  on it to decline Mrs Ps claim.  And given  that the burden of 
proving the claim rested  with Mrs P, the insurer cant fairly be held liable for any costs  incurred in 
achieving that end, and I note that Ageas did inform  Mrs P that she would  be responsible for the costs 
of the legal  challenge. It follows  that I dont intend asking Ageas to cover Mrs Ps costs incurred prior 
to the positive prospects  assessment being issued by her own solicitor.
Ref: DRN76870856However, I do consider that Ageas should cover Mrs Ps reasonable legal costs incurred after her 
solicitor issued the positive prospects assessment on 26 October 2017,  because  it was from this point 
that I consider Mrs P had proved her claim  and demonstrated that it did meet the requirements of the 
policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I intend to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and tell Ageas Insurance  Limited 
to pay her reasonable  legal costs incurred  as of 26 October 2017 when the supportive prospects 
assessment was issued by her solicitor.
Ageas should also pay simple interest of 8% per year (less  any tax properly deductible)  on any of 
these payments Mrs P has made to her solicitors in respect  of the employment claim from the date 
she paid those costs, until theyre reimbursed.
Ref: DRN7687085