K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) (first  direct) wont  
compensate him for a fireplace liner he says was misrepresented to him and which he 
bought using, in part, his first direct credit card. He brings this complaint under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr R and his wife wanted to buy a gas log effect  fire, fire surround and lining. They 
approached a retailer whom Ill call S. S showed them  a brochure of a manufacturer  whom 
Ill call M whose products S sold.  They were  attracted by a particular model of fire and 
fireplace, with a reddish rustic brick  effect lining.
They wanted  to see the lining before placing an order,  but S didnt have the lining on show. 
S said the only other fireplace  by M it had on show was an older  version on a different less 
modern fire. Mr R tried to find the model  on display elsewhere, but couldnt find one. So 
relying on the brochure photo they placed  an order with S at a cost of £3,200,  part of which 
Mr R paid using his first direct credit card.
When the fire was delivered and fitted,  Mr and Mrs R thought  the lining looked quite different 
from the picture in the brochure. S arranged for a replacement lining to be delivered, but it 
was just the same as the first one. Mr R wanted  S to remove  the fire and refund what they 
had paid.
S said it had done  all it could. What  it had delivered  was what  Mr R had ordered, and was all 
that was available. It pointed to small  print at the end of the brochure which  said that pictures  
in the brochure were  for illustration purposes only.
Mr R complained to first direct  under  section  75. First direct said that although  Mr R wanted 
to have a red brick effect  lining  as in the brochure  picture, his invoice only described it as 
brick lining. It also pointed to the brochure disclaimer that said:
photography is for illustration purposes  only and although every effort  has been made to 
ensure accurate reproduction of typical installations and flame pictures they may vary 
according to fire model and flue types.
So it didnt accept  his section 75 claim.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She considered that 
the colour of the bricks was important to Mr and Mrs R when choosing  a fire as it was going 
to be the feature of their room. So she thought the photo in the brochure with the bricks 
shown as having a reddish colour  wouldve  induced  Mr and Mrs R to enter  into the contract  
with S.
She didnt  think it was fair to say that Mr and Mrs R wouldve been  aware  from the disclaimer  
many pages  later in the brochure,  that the fire might have been different from the photo. So 
she was satisfied that the photos in the brochure misrepresented the fire.
It wasnt possible to require S to remedy the misrepresentation  by supplying a liner in 
accordance with the brochure picture,  as M apparently  didnt make  such  a liner. Mr R had 
Ref: DRN72223062said he was hoping to obtain a suitable replacement red brick effect liner elsewhere and had 
been quoted a price of £800.
The investigator said she thought a suitable remedy for the misrepresentation  would be to 
reduce the price Mr R had paid by 25%, that is £800, for which  first direct was equally liable 
with S under  section 75.
Mr R accepted the investigators recommendation. He sent photos  showing how different the 
liner as installed was from the brochure picture of his model  of fire.
First direct responded to say, in summary, that S had told it:
Mr and Mrs R had viewed sample  boards in Ss showroom before they entered into the 
contract, and the liner as supplied resembled the sample  boards;
a number of fireplaces  were shown in the brochure with rustic brick liners. Although 
they looked quite different from one another in the photos,  they were  all actually the 
same liner; and 
the liner supplied resembled liners shown in other photos, though not the brochure photo  
of the fireplace Mr and Mrs R bought.
So it thought  the disclaimer in the brochure about photos was reasonable and should be 
given effect to.
The investigator asked  first direct to arrange  for her to view the sample boards S had 
referred to. However S said these were  no longer  available. (Mr R said the only samples 
they had seen were  described by S as being  for an older model  of fire, and so different from 
what would  be supplied  to them.) So the investigator  said she couldnt place any weight on 
what Mr and Mrs R were said to have seen  in the way of samples.
The investigator remained of the view that the photo in the brochure was a 
misrepresentation of what was supplied, which was significantly  different from the brochure  
photo. She didnt  think the disclaimer could be relied on to supply something which  looked  
completely different to what was advertised. She still thought  first direct should  refund 25% 
of the total cost to Mr R.
First direct didnt  agree  and so this complaint has been passed  to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the photos of the liner as delivered,  and the photos in the brochure  on which 
Mr and Mrs R based their decision to purchase. In my view they are markedly different.  So 
I think S misrepresented  to Mr and Mrs R what they would receive, and under section  75 first 
direct is equally liable  for the consequences  of this misrepresentation.
Its been suggested that all the photos in the brochure showing rustic brick  effect  liners are 
in fact all of the same liner. Looking at the photos,  the brickwork in various  photos  looks  so 
different that I find this hard to believe.
Ref: DRN72223063But even if its true, I think it would take a far clearer and more prominent  disclaimer than the 
short paragraph in small print at the very end of the brochure for S and first direct to be able 
to avoid liability for supplying something  so different to what was advertised  to Mr and Mrs R.
Like the investigator, I think S misrepresented the look of the liner Mr and Mrs R would 
receive to a significant extent, and cant rely on the disclaimer wording at the end of the 
brochure. First direct is equally  liable  to compensate Mr R for this misrepresentation under 
section 75. So its fair and reasonable that first direct  should refund 25% of the total cost of 
the fire, fire surround and liner, that is £800,  to Mr R.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first 
direct) to pay Mr R £800.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7222306