K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as National & Provincial Building Society)  
mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In my provisional decision of 4 January  2019  (a copy of which  Ive attached to this final 
decision), I explained why I intended to uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A has accepted my provisional decision but Santander hasnt  responded to it. Mr As 
complaint has come  back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided  to 
uphold Mr As complaint.  Mr A has accepted  my provisional decision and, while Santander 
hasnt responded  to it, I havent seen anything to make me think I should change  the 
provisional conclusions  I set out in it.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr A in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr A the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision of 4 January 2019, I uphold  Mr As 
complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put things rights as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75359412COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 4 JANUARY 2019
complaint
Mr A says Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as National & Provincial Building Society)  
mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
I understand Mr A took out his mortgage with Santander in 1984  but didnt buy PPI until 
1987.
Among other  things, Mr A says the PPI was unsuitable for him because  he was self-
employed and there wouldve been restrictions on him making an unemployment  claim 
under the policy.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr As complaint agreed and upheld  his complaint. Santander 
disagrees and so Mr As complaint has come  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
From what  Ive seen so far, I intend  to uphold Mr As complaint. But, as Ive said,  my reason 
is different to the one our adjudicator gave. She upheld Mr As complaint because she 
though the circumstances  in which, being  self-employed, Mr A could make an 
unemployment claim were quite limited. But I dont  think Mr A was eligible for the PPI in the 
first place.
Santander has sent us a policy leaflet  from 1987  which it says applied  to Mr As PPI. This 
says existing borrowers and self-employed people  arent eligible for unemployment  cover  but 
can take accident and sickness cover. Santander  sold Mr A unemployment,  accident  and 
sickness cover.
From what  Ive seen so far, I think Mr A was both an existing borrower and self-employed.  
That means he wouldnt have been able to make a claim for unemployment under the policy. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr A. But I cant see it advised him that, in his 
circumstances, unemployment,  accident and sickness cover  wasnt  right for him. It if had 
done, I dont think  Mr A wouldve gone ahead  with a policy  he could never have  claimed on 
for unemployment.
Santander has asked  for proof that Mr A was self-employed when he bought  the PPI. Mr A 
has consistently maintained he was self-employed  and  very recently  he has sent us a 
letter from the Inland Revenue showing that, for the 1986/87 tax year,  he paid National 
Insurance contributions that are consistent  with him being self-employed.  So I dont think  
theres any doubt Mr A was self-employed at the time. But, in any case, even  if he wasnt, I 
dont think hed have  been eligible for the PPI since he was also an existing borrower.
I think Mr A has lost out because of what Santander did wrong and so it should  put things 
right.
Ref: DRN75359413putting things right
Santander should put Mr A in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr A the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend  to uphold Mr As complaint and to direct  Santander  UK 
Plc to put things  right as Ive set out above.
I invite Mr A and Santander UK Plc to give me any further information they want me to 
consider before 4 February 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7535941