K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Evolution Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused his claim under his 
roadside assistance policy.
background
Late one evening  in November 2018  Mr B claimed  on his Evolution roadside  assistance 
policy. His car had lost power.  Evolution didnt agree to recover his car under the terms of 
his policy. It said as his car wasnt immobile, he wasnt covered. It offered,  without  cost to 
Mr B, local recovery  by one of its contractors. This wasnt suitable for him as he was a long 
way from home and it was late at night. Evolution  said Mr B would have  to pay any extra  
charge for recovery to his home address.    
Mr B complained that Evolution should  have recovered his car under the terms of the policy. 
He feels it should  reimburse him the £259 he paid the contractor for his car to be taken to his 
home. He also requested  he be paid compensation for the poor service received. 
In response Evolution  said Mr Bs policy doesnt provide for recovery  unless the car is 
immobile. It said his car wasnt immobile  but in limp mode  he wasnt  entitled to any 
assistance. 
Our Investigator  said Mr B had a valid claim under  the terms of his policy. So she felt 
Evolution should reimburse him what he paid for the recovery. She also recommended it pay 
him £75 compensation to recognise  the inconvenience of him spending the night in his car. 
Mr B accepted the assessment.  But Evolution didnt. So the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Evolution  will need  to 
cover the cost of the recovery and pay Mr B compensation.
The terms of Mr Bs policy says service will be provided if his vehicle suffers a breakdown  
during the course of a journey. Evolution  says the car didnt suffer  a breakdown  as defined 
by the policy.  That definition is an electrical or mechanical failure which  immediately renders 
the vehicle immobilised . 
Ive listened to a recording  of Mr B requesting assistance. He explained an oil warning light 
came on. The car reported an engine fault and lost power. He said he managed to get the 
car to a layby.   
Evolution says the car wasnt immobilised.  It says instead the car was in limp mode. It says 
that doesnt render a car immobile but instead limits the speed at which it can move. It adds 
that limp mode is only temporary  and usually will disable after a pre-set  time. Immobile  isnt 
defined by the policy. Evolution  has provided what it describes as dictionary definition  
motionless or not moving. 
Technically, using the most favourable interpretation  for Evolution,  Mr Bs car wasnt  
immobile. But I dont think Evolution  has applied the policy terms in a fair and reasonable 
Ref: DRN7991725 way. I accept that Mr Bs car could be moved in limp mode. But I dont think  most people  
would consider it was mobile. 
The fault turned out to be an oil cap not being fitted correctly  causing incorrect  pressure in 
the engine and loss of power. But Mr B wasnt to know the cause of the problem at the time. 
As far he was aware there was an engine fault.  I think its likely he wouldnt know  if the car 
was safe to drive  any further or if he did he risked  causing additional damage.
So Im satisfied the car suffered  a mechanical failure  that rendered  it effectively immobile. It 
wasnt reasonable to drive  it further without assistance. Im satisfied the car was what most 
people would consider immobile. 
Mr B was in the sort of situation consumers take out roadside assistance policies to protect 
themselves against.  As an insurer Evolutions required to treat its customers  fairly. I think  
Evolutions approach  has been unfair  and unreasonable.  So despite  its definition of 
immobile, I think it was unfair and unreasonable for it to fail to provide Mr B with assistance 
as set out in his policy. 
Evolution says caselaw states that dictionary or every  day use of a word  is the correct  
meaning. It says further caselaw finds judges shouldnt invent ambiguities  because they 
consider applying a plain  meaning would be unjust. Ive considered  this. But this service 
considers whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  not just the technical or 
dictionary definition of a word or term.   
Mr Bs policy  says Evolution will provide  national  recovery  to his home address if a repair  
cant be made at the roadside or local garage on the same  working  day. The vehicle  wasnt  
repaired on the same  day at the roadside  or in a local garage.  Evolutions  unfair  refusal to 
provide the full assistance unfairly resulted  in him paying for a recovery  to his home address. 
To put things right it will need to reimburse  him that cost.  As hes unfairly been without that 
money it will need to add simple interest at 8% from the date of the breakdown to the date of 
settlement. 
Evolutions failure to deal with Mr Bs claim in a fair way resulted in him spending the night in 
his car whilst he waited  for a recovery agent.  I think its likely that was distressing and 
inconvenient for him. I think the Investigators  recommendation for compensation to 
recognise that was fair and reasonable. So Evolution will need to pay Mr B £75 
compensation.  
Ref: DRN7991725 my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Evolution Insurance Company Limited  needs  to pay Mr B:
£259.20 to cover what he paid for the recovery  adding  simple interest at 8% from 
the date of the breakdown  to the date of settlement* and
£75 compensation  to recognise the unnecessary  distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
*If Evolution Insurance  Company Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should  tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7991725