K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 7 October  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  I
cant uphold the complaint.
Neither party provided anything more for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything more  to consider further  to my provisional decision I 
see no reason to alter my decision and confirm those provisional findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  about  Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75592992copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr H bought the policy in 2008  during a phone  call when he was activating his credit card.  In the event of a 
successful claim, if Mr H wasnt able to work because of accident,  sickness  or unemployment,  the policy  would  
have paid 10% of the outstanding  balance on his credit card,  and would  have done  so for 12 months. It also had 
life cover of up to £30,000 in the event of Mr Hs death.
Our adjudicator  thought the complaint should be upheld.  Santander disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so 
the complaint has been  passed to me for decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into 
account in provisionally  deciding  Mr Hs case.
Provisionally, I dont think  this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I think that Santander made Mr H aware he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. I say 
this because  even  though there is limited  paperwork  available from the time of the sale,  Santander has been able 
to give me a copy of the phone script it says its advisers used  when a consumer called  in to activate their credit 
card.
After the initial introduction and customer verification, the PPI is introduced and the adviser would  have said Id 
like to let you know that Abbey  offer optional Payment Protection Insurance  which  is a separate  product  to your 
credit card. While I cant know for sure this is what the adviser said, I think its most  likely that they did. So I think 
it would have been clear  to Mr H he had a choice  about whether to take the policy.
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so they didnt  have to check if it was right for him. But they did 
have to give him enough  information to decide if the PPI was right for his circumstances. And it was for this 
reason that the adjudicator upheld the complaint  Mr H had told us that he was employed and in the event he 
was too unwell to work he would have  received employee pay for 12 months. These  were  extremely  good  
employee benefits but Mr H had been  with the same employer  for 26 years so it was possible. Mr H also told us 
he had some savings so it was likely he would have  been  able to pay his monthly credit  card repayment without 
any financial  difficulty.
However, after the adjudicator confirmed to the parties that the case was being transferred to an ombudsman for 
decision, they asked  Mr H for confirmation of his employee  benefits and the amount of savings he had.
Mr H confirmed that he had savings of around £10,000 but wouldnt receive the generous  employee  benefits  he 
would only receive statutory sick pay. I think this makes a significant difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
Without any employee sick pay, Mr H may have  struggled to meet  his monthly repayments and while I appreciate 
he had some savings I dont think they would have  lasted for the longer term if Mr H wasnt well enough to return  
to work sooner.
By having  the policy in place this meant  that Mr H had the security of knowing  he could meet his credit card 
repayments. And any benefits he may have received  could have  been used for other essential outgoings.  Also, 
his savings would  have remained intact and for longer or could have been used for other essential outgoings  at 
what could have been  a difficult time if Mr H wasnt working.
As we dont  have the call recording, its possible that the information Santander  gave Mr H about PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should  have  been. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main  things the policy  
didnt cover   a pre-existing medical condition as an example.  And based on what I now know  about Mr Hs 
circumstances it looks like the policy could have  been  useful  to him. It gave him a financial benefit he wouldnt 
otherwise have  had, so I dont think that better  information  would  have  put Mr H off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN75592993my provisional  decision
For the reasons I explained above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Please could Santander UK Plc and Mr H send me any more information or comments  to look at by 7 November  
2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN7559299