K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999.  It was free for the first six 
months but after that, it cost £41.58 per month.  The policy was in the sole name  of Mr K and 
in the event of a successful claim if Mr K couldnt  work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment it would have made  a monthly  payment  of £700. This would have been for up 
to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ks PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
There is very limited paperwork from the time of the sale of the policy. But I dont find this 
surprising as the sale was 20 years ago and businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork 
indefinitely. I do have  a copy  of the mortgage application form but it doesnt show any 
application for PPI at the same time. But this absence of paperwork doesnt necessarily lead 
me to conclude that Mr and Mrs K werent  told they had a choice about taking the policy. 
Mr and Mrs K say it was added automatically  and they didn't agree to it. But I cant ignore 
that there  must have been a decision about  what benefits the policy  should  pay and for 
whom. It was decided the policy was to cover Mr K only, rather than both Mr and Mrs K, and 
bearing in mind this was a joint mortgage. I note Mr K was recorded as the higher earner at 
the point of the sale of the mortgage   more than double  Mrs Ks earnings   and this may be 
the reason they decided the policy was to be in Mr Ks name.  So it looks like Mr and Mrs K 
made a decision  about  how the policy would be of most benefit for them  as Mr Ks was the 
most important income to protect.
Because of this, I think its more likely HSBC made  Mr and Mrs K aware  they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. I can appreciate that they might  not be 
able to remember all of the details from the time but memories can, and do, fade over time.  
As there is so little information available from the time of the sale I cant be sure whether 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. But if it did, it had to check it was right for 
them. And from what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  it was. 
According to the mortgage application  both Mr and Mrs K were employed at the time of the 
sale. I know Mr K isnt happy with this as he says he was self-employed  and has sent us 
evidence to this effect.  But in looking at this case I have to rely on how Mr and Mrs K 
Ref: DRN77704172recorded their own personal  circumstances when they applied for their mortgage. That was 
the application for the mortgage  they were successful in applying for, and the repayments  for 
which the PPI was to protect.  The application  showed they were both employed, with Mr K 
earning £24,000 and Mrs K £10,000.  
There isnt any record or any employee benefits Mr K may have received if he wasnt able to 
work. If Mr K was to make a successful claim then the policy  would have more  than covered  
their monthly mortgage repayments, and for up to  12 months. And it would have been in 
addition to any employee or statutory benefits Mr K may have received. 
Mr and Mrs K were  taking on a long term financial commitment secured against their home. 
The penalties for defaulting on their repayments could have been serious  even losing their 
home. So I think the policy would have given  them  a layer of comfort  they wouldnt otherwise  
have had  insurance is there to protect against  unforeseen  events. 
Even if HSBC didn't  recommend  the policy to Mr and Mrs K, it wouldnt have had to check  it 
was right for them it still had to give them  enough  clear information about the PPI for them  to 
be able to decide if they wanted it. 
As I dont know how the policy was presented  to Mr and Mrs K it could be that HSBC  could 
have explained  the cost of the policy better than it did. But it looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So the policy  would have  been  useful for Mr and Mrs K if something went wrong.  
And so I dont think better information about  the costs would have put them off taking out the 
cover.
Its also possible that HSBC didnt point out the main things the policy  wouldnt cover   a 
pre-existing medical condition as an example. But Mr K doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of those  things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ks comments, including  what  they said about  HSBC 
responding to their complaint by referring to a mortgage protection plan rather than the PPI 
policy. But this looks like it was an error on HSBCs  behalf and nothing more  than a mistake. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K will be unhappy with the outcome of my decision.  But I hope I 
have been able to explain how and why Ive reached this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7770417