K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the settlement offer their home insurer, Ageas Insurance 
Limited, has offered  in respect of their burglary claim.
background
Mr and Mrs W were burgled.  Ageas accepted their claim and said it would pay £4,385 (net of 
the policy excess) in settlement. Mr and Mrs W felt this was a bit low so Ageas sent them a 
breakdown. They noted the settlement was only regarding  27 items theyd claimed for. They 
told Ageas  there were 19 items outstanding. 
Ageas noted that Mr and Mrs W had claimed  for 19 undescribed items of jewellery. It also 
noted that bank and credit card statements had been provided showing purchases from 
certain shops had been made. Ageas felt that given the lack of description the financial 
records showing purchases being made  from jewellers at certain times wasnt sufficient to 
evidence what had been lost. Ageas final response  was it wouldnt offer settlement for the 
19 undescribed items.
Mr and Mrs W felt it wasnt unusual that they couldnt describe every piece of jewellery 
owned, and they certainly  shouldnt be penalised  for it. They complained to us. 
Our investigator felt Ageas had acted fairly  and reasonably. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W said the bank statements did show evidence of jewellery items theyd had 
stolen, because those  purchases were  definitely of jewellery for Mrs W. They  asked for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs W but Im not persuaded Ageas has acted  
unfairly by declining to settle for these  items.  Whilst the policy  only requires them  to provide  
any evidence they can  that doesnt  mean Ageas  has to accept what is given  as reasonable 
evidence of the claim. It is up to Mr and Mrs W to show what  it is theyve lost, and whilst 
I wouldnt expect anyone  to be able to give detailed descriptions of everything they owned a 
lack of knowledge of what is being  claimed  for doesnt assist when there is no other clear 
proof available of ownership.
The financial  records  provided  dont  show  what was purchased, only that something  was 
purchased from a certain shop at a certain time. I wouldnt expect bank and credit card 
statements to show more  than this. But an insurer would then normally be able to put that 
information together with some history and detail for the item provided by the policyholder 
and in doing so be able to satisfy itself that, on balance, the value evidenced  in the bank  
record was likely the amount and point  of purchase for the claimed for item. 
Essentially, there has to be a reasonable level of provenance established. Whilst I note 
Mr and Mrs Ws assertion  that the purchases  on the bank statements must evidence the 
jewellery they had stolen,  because the related shops only sell jewellery and only jewellery for 
Mrs W was purchased from these shops, Im not persuaded that provides a reasonable level 
of provenance.  Nor does it allow Ageas to accurately  determine  any value  merely  adding 
Ref: DRN75784232interest to the prices  evidenced in the bank statements wouldnt do that. Value of jewellery  is 
established by determining what the item is, what it is made  from and the quality of the 
materials used. All of which is generally  determined, where definite purchase and/or 
valuation documents  dont  exist,  through a reasonable level of provenance, often involving a 
description of the item. Without that, ownership of an item, and, therefore, what  has been  
lost, cant be validated.  I cant  fairly expect Ageas to settle for items it, through  no fault of its 
own, hasnt been  able to validate.
If Mr and Mrs W have any photos  which they think shows  them  wearing any of the 19 items 
then they should present these to Ageas.  Evidence  like this might give it good cause to 
review its position. At this time, based  on the evidence I have seen, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to make  Ageas pay any further  settlement to Mr and Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Ageas  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7578423