K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that a standing order payment was wrongly made  to an account  she hadnt 
intended to transfer money  to. She says that was the fault of Santander UK Plc and that it 
didnt do enough  to recover the payment. 
background
Miss F had a current  account  with Santander and a savings account with Barclays. In 
November 2016  she set up a monthly  standing order  to transfer £300 from her Santander 
account to her Barclays account.  
The transfers were  not, however, successful, and the payments were returned  and re-
credited to Miss Fs Santander account. 
In July 2018, however, the payment wasnt returned,  but it wasnt  credited to Miss Fs 
Barclays account either. It appeared that the Barclays account  number on the standing order 
wasnt the number  of Miss Fs savings account  but  by July 2018 at least   was that of a 
third partys  account. 
Santander tried unsuccessfully to recover the money from Barclays. It said that it was Miss 
Fs responsibility to ensure that the standing order had been set up correctly. Miss F didnt 
agree and referred the matter to this service. She said that, when shed set up the standing  
order, shed handed  over her Barclays card so that Santander could  copy the account 
number from it, so Santander was responsible for any error.
One of our investigators  considered what Miss F had said, but felt that Santander  had 
treated Miss F fairly.  It had set up the standing order  in line with her instructions and had 
attempted  albeit  unsuccessfully  to retrieve the money that had been  transferred. Miss F 
didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman  review the case.            
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Its not entirely clear  exactly  why the standing order failed for nearly two years, but was then 
credited to a third partys account.  I think its likely  though that the Barclays  account number 
on the standing  order wasnt  in use until July 2018,  and was then allocated to a new 
account. 
Theres also little detailed  information about  what happened when the standing order was 
set up. Miss F would  have provided  Santander  with the details of the Barclays account. She 
says she did so by handing over her Barclays bank card, which  would have included her 
Barclays sort code and account  number. She suggests that the cashier copied those details 
incorrectly. Im prepared  to accept that is what happened. However,  its likely  that Miss F 
would have been invited to check her instructions  including not only the account details, 
but also the amount and frequency of the payment  and confirm that they were correct. So, 
even if Santander  had made  an error, she would have had the opportunity  to correct it. 
What I believe to be significant in this case, however, is the fact that Miss F had identified  a 
problem, but didnt address it. She says that shed noticed that her payments were being 
Ref: DRN77807982returned, but didnt cancel  her standing order. She says she found out that she couldnt, after 
all, save £300  a month; since  the money was being returned to her when the standing  order 
failed each month, she chose not to cancel or amend it. I appreciate she probably didnt 
realise that the wrong account number  might become active  at some point in the future, but 
she, rather than Santander, was in a position  to find out why payments were  being returned 
and to make  any changes needed.  
In the circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair to require Santander to refund the £300 
paid from Miss Fs account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to take any further  steps to resolve 
Miss Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Miss F to accept  or reject  my decision before 2 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7780798