K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that a bank transfer  into their joint National Westminster Bank Plc 
account was unnecessarily  delayed, and the process they had to follow and the customer  
service they were given  to resolve  it was unacceptable, causing  them  significant stress.
Background
Mr and Mrs W transferred  some  money from another bank into their joint Nat West account. 
The transfer was delayed by Nat West for nearly  two weeks,  as it wanted to conduct some 
security and compliance checks. 
Mr and Mrs W contacted Nat West several  times during this period and say they were  given 
differing information  about what was happening. 
They complained to Nat West saying the delay and the incorrect  and unclear  information 
they had been given  about it had caused them serious stress.  They  also said Nat West had 
not allowed  them to complain earlier in the process.
Nat West replied and acknowledged  the service it had given Mr and Mrs W when they were 
trying to find out about the inward  payment was poor. Nat West also acknowledged that 
Mr and Mrs W should have been able to log the complaint earlier  than they did.
However, in regard to the delay of the transfer, Nat West said it had acted  correctly.  It said 
the transfer was delayed  as it had flagged security concerns. It said the payment was 
processed as soon as the required compliance checks  had been  completed.  
Due to its acknowledged  poor customer service issues, Nat West paid Mr and Mrs W £200  
for the stress  and inconvenience  they had been caused, and an additional £30 for their time 
and telephone costs.
Mr and Mrs W did not accept this outcome, so complained to our service.
The investigator sent a comprehensive  reply to Mr and Mrs W which I dont propose to 
repeat. In summary though, he thought the delay to the transfer was reasonable, and the 
£230 compensation Nat West paid to Mr and Mrs W for the poor customer  service was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
For security reasons, the investigator was unable to tell Mr and Mrs W exactly  why the 
transfer was flagged for extra compliance  checks. But he was satisfied the checks  were 
necessary and fair as Nat West is obliged to ensure its own security, and that of its 
customers. And having looked at the time-line of the checks conducted by Nat West, he was 
satisfied they were conducted  in a timely manner, with no unavoidable  delays.  
Mr and Mrs W did not accept the investigators views. They thought  the payment was 
unnecessarily delayed and the level of compensation  given  did not properly reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience caused to both of them. They also sent a large amount of 
evidence for consideration, detailing the impact the poor service  provided by Nat West had 
had on them.
So the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN75437652My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have  made  a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence,  and I 
have looked at it all. Were an informal dispute  resolution service, set up as a free alternative 
to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed  on what I consider to be the heart of 
the matter, rather than commenting on every  issue in turn. This isnt intended  as a 
discourtesy to Mr and Mrs W. Rather it reflects the informal  nature of our service,  its remit 
and my role in it.
Having considered everything  presented,  I agree with the investigators  view, for broadly the 
same reasons. I understand Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision, as 
Nat Wests decisions and poor customer service are clearly  important  matters  of principle to 
them. Ill explain why I have come  to this conclusion.
When Mr and Mrs W transferred money from another  bank into their joint Nat West account, 
it was flagged by Nat Wests automated system  as suspicious, so was blocked pending 
further compliance checks.  For security reasons Nat West has not told Mr and Mrs W why 
this happened, and nor would I have expected it to. Nat West has however, explained the 
reasons to our service, and that it was complying with its statutory and regulatory 
requirements. 
Nat West has also provided  a timeline  for its enquiries. I have seen this and do not think 
there were any unnecessary delays to the process. 
Overall, Im satisfied Nat West followed its statutory and regulatory requirements  on security  
checks for transfers. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an error when it subjected  the 
payment Mr and Mrs W made into their account  to further security checks and I dont think it 
treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly in this regard.  
That said,  I can understand that this was an inconvenient and distressing experience  for 
Mr and Mrs W, especially  given that the transaction was genuine. I think this distress and 
inconvenience was probably exacerbated by the poor customer service  Nat West provided 
during the process. 
Nat West have not disputed that the customer service it provided to Mr and Mrs W was not 
what it should have  been. What has not been agreed is the level of compensation they 
should be paid in recognition. 
I have looked  at the communication  between Mr and Mrs W and Nat West, and have 
listened to the phone calls. What is clear is Mr and Mrs W were initially  concerned that they 
had been the subject  of an attempted fraud,  and this was made worse because  of a lack of 
coordination between different departments at Nat West. However, I think  it was made clear 
that their account was secure which probably went some way in reassuring them.
And I think it was clear that they wanted  to raise this as a complaint  earlier  than they were 
allowed to, which would  have added to the stress  and suspicions that something had gone 
wrong.
Ref: DRN75437653I do not wish to downplay  the obvious distress that both Mr and Mrs W were caused by the 
poor service Nat West provided.  And I think a lot of this could have been avoided  had the 
initial phone calls been handled better  by Nat West. And both Mr and Mrs W have had to 
spend a considerable  amount of time making phone calls and writing  emails to try and deal 
with the problems.
Mr and Mrs W were also frustrated that Nat West didnt explain  why the delay was occurring, 
but as Ive said above, Nat West were restricted from giving too many details, so this was 
probably unavoidable.
Although I appreciate the whole situation was upsetting, I can only award for the distress 
caused by the poor service, not for the delay in the transfer. As a result  of the above, I am 
satisfied the offer already  made by Nat West of a total of £230 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  is sufficient and in line with our services guidance. I wont be asking 
them to do anything else. 
My final decision
I do not require  National Westminster Bank  Plc to do anything  further  in relation to this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr  and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7543765