K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about the loss of the tax-exempt  status on the Clamp  Property  Unit Trust 
(an Exempt  Property  Unit Trust - EPUT). He considers  that delays by EBS Pensions Limited 
caused the tax-exempt status  to be lost. 
background
The EPUT was established around 2001.  Mr A and three others  started EBS Self Invested 
Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and they all invested  in the EPUT. The EPUT then bought  two 
commercial properties  which were leased to the EPUT members. Each EPUT member  was 
appointed to the EPUT Management Advisory Committee and one member was appointed 
as the committee chairman (who I will refer to as the CC).
EBS was appointed as the EPUT  manager  in 2011.  In March 2014 EBS wrote to the CC to 
explain that HMRC was introducing new rules which meant that the EPUT would need to 
apply to be treated  as an Exempt Unauthorised Unit Trust (EUUT).  It said that a condition of 
the new rules was that the EPUT accounts would need to be audited. EBS asked the CC 
which auditor should  be appointed.
In April 2014 the CC told EBS that he wanted to use an auditor  I will refer to as Firm A - the 
EPUTS existing accountants.  
In November 2015 the properties held by the EPUT were transferred to the members  SIPPs  
(split between them). In the e-mail that EBS sent confirming the transfer of the properties it 
explained that audited accounts would be needed  for the year to 31 March 2015 and for the 
period from 1 April 2015 to the date of the EPUT wind up. EBS informed the CC in an e-mail  
a few days later that the 2015  accounts  were required by the end of January 2016.
EBS e-mailed the CC on 21 January  2016  to ask for an update on the audited accounts.  On 
25 January 2016  Firm A e-mailed the CC and EBS to say that whilst itd prepared the accounts 
it wasnt able to audit  them.  It said it was trying to locate a firm to do the audit but explained 
that an extension  was needed. It did however say the tax return had been  completed.
EBS then submitted the EPUT annual tax return to HMRC with a promise  that audited 
accounts would be sent in due course.  EBS e-mailed the CC in April 2016 to see if he had 
appointed an auditor  yet. EBS sent three further e-mails to chase the CC through  April to 
June 2016. 
On 1 July 2016 EBS provided the CC with the details of a firm of auditors (which I will refer 
to as Firm B). The CC then corresponded with Firm B about what  was required and it was 
appointed as auditor in early October 2016.
EBS sent the CC an e-mail asking for an update on the audited  accounts on 12 October 
2016. EBS was made aware  of Firm Bs appointment as auditors at this point and EBS sent 
information to Firm B on 1 November 2016.
In November 2016 Firm B asked for details of the rent that had been  paid to the EPUT and 
the CC sent this information on 5 December 2016. Firm B sent draft accounts to EBS for its 
approval on 6 December 2016  together  with a number of issues/queries.
Ref: DRN79722812Having received the draft accounts and list of issues from Firm B, EBS said it identified that 
the rent paid to the EPUT hadnt  been in accordance with the leases in place. On 8 
December 2016  EBS sent the CC an e-mail  which set out the issues  that needed to be 
resolved in respect of the EPUT accounts.  It set out EBS  understanding of the rent due. And 
said that if the CC thought that the rents should be lower, it would need to be supported  by a 
surveyor. It also asked if he intended to invoice the EPUT for the work done  over the years.
EBS sent the CC e-mails  on 6 January 2017  and 11 January 2017 asking for responses to 
Firm Bs questions. The CC sent EBS the invoice  for the work done for the EPUT on 12 
January 2017.
On 5 April 2017  EBS sent the CC an e-mail  setting  out its analysis of the outstanding  rent 
due and asked  for retrospective rental  valuations  from a surveyor.  HMRC wrote to Firm A on 
24 April 2017 to say that it was withdrawing the exempt status for the period 6 April 2015 to 
6 April 2016 as the audited 2015  accounts hadnt been submitted.
EBS received the retrospective rental  valuations from the surveyor  on 25 April 2017.
On 27 April 2017 Firm A wrote  to HMRC to appeal  its decision and said the audited  accounts 
would be submitted by 30 June  2017.   EBS has said it responded to this appeal with the 
schedule of outstanding rents and a note explaining that the audited accounts  would  also be 
required for the period 31 March 2016 to the winding up of the scheme. 
A revised  rent schedule  was sent to EBS on 28 April 2017.
On 3 May 2017  EBS asked the surveyor to carry out two valuations  again. Its said the 
surveyor sent this information by e-mail on 22 May 2017 and copied the CC in. On 31 May 
2017 EBS sent the CC its final schedule  of the outstanding  rents taking into account  the 
retrospective rental valuations received from the surveyor.  It asked the CC to review the 
information which could  then be incorporated into the accounts. And to contact it with any 
queries, or otherwise  make payment.  
On 6 June 2017 the CC sent a letter  to EBS about  the outstanding rent. In summary, he 
thought the rent for the first four years in respect  of one of the properties should be reduced 
by £15,000 a year (£60,000 in total).
On 16 June 2017 Firm A sent an e-mail to EBS (and the CC) to say it had received agreement 
from HMRC to the extension for submission of the audited accounts to 30 June 2017. 
On 22 June 2017 Firm A e-mailed EBS to ask if the outstanding rent schedule  had been 
finalised. It also asked  if it had managed to speak to HMRC  as it was beginning to look 
unlikely they would be able to meet the HMRC deadline. EBS replied on the same day and 
copied the CC in saying  it had asked HMRC for an extension. 
The employee at EBS that was dealing  with the matter has said that due to illness  he wasnt in 
the office. But that hed asked HMRC for a further  extension. He said that hed explained to 
HMRC that the EPUT management  business  had been sold to another firm (which I will refer 
to as Firm C), and the employee was collating  some  information for Firm C to finalise the rent 
due. He noted that the CC had asked for the outstanding rent to be reduced by £60K.
The extended deadline  for submissions  of the audited accounts expired on 30 June 2017.
Ref: DRN79722813There then followed a series of correspondence exchanged between all the parties involved  in 
particular about  the CCs queries regarding the outstanding rent  through  to September 2017.  
Firm B wrote to the CC and Firm C on 15 September 2017 to set out its opinion on what 
amendments needed to be made  to the accounts. It noted the CCs continued request that 
the outstanding rent be reduced. It said that as this reduction hadnt been agreed it was 
happy that the outstanding rent figure was correct.
On 15 November 2017 Firm B sent the audited accounts to Firm C to sign.  In the covering 
letter Firm B said that the CC was still contending that the rent should be reduced by £60K. 
About this, it said without  evidence  to the contrary, such as correspondence between  the 
tenant and the landlord that it has been  agreed the rent owing be reduced in respect of the
period, we are content that the accounts are correct in showing the full amount of rent 
outstanding rent at £45K  pa for the first four years.
Firm C signed the audited  accounts within a few days.
On 5 December  2017 I understand the CC wrote to EBS to ask why the exempt  status had 
been withdrawn.  EBS treated this as a complaint and sent the CC (who was acting on behalf 
of Mr A) its response in December 2017.  In summary, it said it had provided the CC with 
plenty of notice  of the requirement for audited accounts and sent a number of reminders.  It 
said the CC was aware  of the deadline  of 30 June 2017 and it had sent the CC the required 
information to finalise the accounts on 31 May 2017.
Unhappy with the response the CC (on behalf of Mr A) Mr C referred  the matter to us. One 
of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
In brief,  the adjudicator thought that EBS had sent the CC several  warnings and reminders 
about the need for audited accounts. It alerted the CC about HMRCs new rules  in March 2014  
and asked him to appoint  an auditor.  In November 2015 EBS told the CC that the audited  
accounts were due by the end of January 2016. When  it was found that Firm A wasnt able to 
audit the accounts EBS sent the CC a number  of reminders in the first half of 2016. EBS sent 
the CC details  of Firm B in July 2016  and it was appointed in early  October  2016.
When EBS was asked  to send information to the auditor later in October  2016  it was sent 
within a few days. And when it received the draft accounts in December  2016  it again 
responded within a few days.
So given the sequence of events, the adjudicator didnt think  it was reasonable to hold EBS 
responsible for any delays  before  December  2016.
Although EBS had taken until early April 2017 to send out its analysis of the outstanding 
rents it had sent the CC an e-mail on 8 December 2016 setting out the issues  that needed to 
be resolved in respect of the EPUT accounts. And this had included  setting  out its 
understanding of the rent due. But the CC hadnt  raised his query  about  the reduction  in rent 
until 6 June 2017. This was just over three weeks before the expected extended HMRC 
deadline was due to expire. 
The adjudicator accepted  that there might have been some confusion about  who was 
responsible for making a decision on the rent reduction, particularly due to the transfer
of the EPUT business during the summer  of 2017 to Firm C. And that due to the transfer 
some information may have taken longer to be sent to Firm B than it would have otherwise.
Ref: DRN79722814However he noted how long it had taken  to finalise the accounts after Firm B sent out the 
proposed amendments to the accounts  in the 15 September  2017  e-mail (which took 
account of the invoice  and other  matters). It still took about two months for Firm B to
send the final version  of the audited accounts  to Firm C to sign.
The adjudicators view was that even if there hadnt  been any delays, it was unlikely the 
audited accounts  wouldve  been ready for submission to HMRC by the deadline of 30 June 
2017. The CC had raised a significant query  only a few weeks  before the deadline.
Given the overall picture, the adjudicator didnt think that EBS had caused the exempt  status 
to be lost. And he didnt  think it would be fair and reasonable to recommend that the 
business pay compensation in the particular circumstances. 
The CC (on behalf  of Mr A) didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. In summary,  he said 
that he didnt understand  why EBS had issued the date for filing the accounts. And as noted in 
the adjudicators  report, Firm A had e-mailed him on 25 January 2016 to say it had prepared 
the accounts but not audited them as a specialist firm was required. So the work was done 
subject only to this specialist audit. The CC queried  why EBS was therefore e-mailing him 
when it knew Firm A had prepared the draft accounts which  just needed auditing by Firm B. 
When he heard from EBS he would always write  to Firm A and Firm B for a report and 
whatever was needed. This should  have been done by EBS - it was their job and not the CCs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator, and largely  for the same reasons. 
I accept that the division  of responsibilities here may have been blurred. But I think  if the CC 
had thought EBS was asking him to perform  tasks or liaise  with the other parties when he 
thought it was EBS responsibility, it would  have been reasonable for him to have  pointed  this 
out at the time. On the one hand,  I realise that its easy to say this with hindsight and the CC 
may have  been  unsure of the extent of his role (at the time) or just trying to be helpful.  But 
on the other, the fact is the CC had significant involvement in the process and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to hold EBS responsible for delays for which it thought others  had been  tasked.
The fact that HMRC was introducing new rules and that the EPUT accounts would need to 
be audited were first raised by EBS around March 2014. And EBS asked the CC which 
auditor should  be appointed. As events unfolded there was then a series  of exchanges of 
correspondence and over a period of time. But I dont think  there were any material  delays  by 
EBS through to December  2016.  It had chased  the matter on several occasions throughout 
the period and chased its 8 December  2016  e-mail on two occasions in January 2017.  
EBS was aware  that the extension until the end of June 2017 had been requested at the end 
of April 2017. So time was clearly  limited at this point. EBS asked the surveyor to carry out 
further revaluations  on 3 May 2017.  And it received them on 22 May 2017.  It sent the CC its 
final schedule on 31 May 2017. So I dont think this was untimely and I think  there was a 
reasonable prospect of meeting the 30 June deadline at this point. 
Ref: DRN79722815Although, strictly, there  may have  been  time to resolve the rent issues  raised by the CC in 
early June, I think it was always going to be tight.  I understand  the CCs suspicions about 
EBS employees illness and the transfer  of the business to Firm C. But this was all near the 
end of the process; even if it did delay the matter it was only for relatively short  periods prior 
to the 30 June 2017 deadline. And as noted by the adjudicator, given  the two-month period it 
took to finalise the accounts after Firm B sent out the proposed amendments in its 
September 2017 e-mail,  I dont think  any minor delays were material to the failure  to meet  
the 30 June deadline. And clearly events after the 30 June couldnt have contributed  to it 
being missed.
The CC has said doesnt understand why EBS had issued  the date for filing the accounts. 
But it doesnt appear that it was EBS that was responsible  for the 30 June 2017 extended 
deadline date.
In deciding the complaint Im required to consider whats  fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances. Having  carefully considered the matter, and in particular the relative 
timescales taken by the different parties  in the whole, I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that EBS actions caused the loss of the tax-exempt status and any 
losses flowing from it. 
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7972281