K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TenetConnect Limited recommended an excessively risky investment 
and that its advisor  did not make him sufficiently aware of its downside.
background
In 2007 Mr S agreed to invest £13,000  in a Sterling Investment High Allocation Bond which  
he sold in 2012  with a loss of £690.85 (5.31%).
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld, noting this 
represented less than a third (and possibly closer  to a quarter) of Mr Ss available  cash  and 
he was left with reasonable reserves after this investment. On top of which  he felt Mr S was 
prepared to take some risk with this money and that the level of risk was fully outlined.
Mr Ss representative responded, saying:
There in absolutely zero evidence to support a view that Mr Ss risk appetite was 
measured or that he held any previous experience of holding  offshore funds subject  
to macroeconomic and exchange  rate risks
While  a cash holdings scrap of paper appears  to be completed,  the amounts are not 
recorded in the fact find or suitability report, neither are his alleged ISA holdings
Therefore the advisers suggestion  that the client maxed his ISA allowance  is 
unsubstantiated
The fact finds alleged  client risk rating  of 4 is circled without evidence of risk 
questions being asked it and has been signed  only by the adviser
The downsides of the investment are not stated, only its geographical spread
The clients deposits are not showing any rates of interest or whether they were set 
aside for specific needs e.g. tax or business  costs etc.
There is no record of pension arrangements being or his buy-to-let borrowing
Mr S is adamant that the risks were not explained to him
The bond was sold on a single life basis but Mr S was married,  and this included 
unnecessary life cover. It is non-qualifying  in nature which could have  led to an 
additional tax bill when he reached 65
It is clear the adviser sold the product as offering a better rate of return than existing 
cash deposits and did not disclose the specific downsides  of the investment
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share  some of the concerns raised by Mr Ss representative, including  about  the very 
limited information contained  in the fact find concerning Mr Ss overall financial situation. I 
also have seen no evidence as to how the advisor came to the conclusion  that Mr S was 
looking for a medium  to high level of risk or whether the significance  of this categorisation 
was fully explained. I also agree that the descriptor of medium/high is completely inadequate  
and fails to spell out the level of risk entailed.  Equally, the advisors  suitability letter fails to 
illuminate this important  consideration.
So I am not persuaded that Mr S was in a fully informed position  to decide whether to go 
ahead with the recommended investment. 
Ref: DRN71665182But in order to uphold  this complaint I need to feel fairly sure that Mr S did not want to take 
this level of risk with this portion of his money  and/or that he should not have been advised 
to do so. I am not convinced there  is such  persuasive evidence to safely reach such a 
conclusion.
Firstly, recently-produced  evidence suggests  Mr S had close to £50,000 in readily-available 
assets (cash  and bank  deposits) so this investment was a relatively modest portion of his 
money. Crucially it appears  that he had significant  investment experience  and had agreed to 
invest with a medium to high degree  of risk previously. This does not mean that previous 
advice had necessarily  been appropriate  but it does demonstrate that Mr S had a history of 
agreeing to invest money in what was said to be medium to high risk funds, and signing the 
paperwork to acknowledge that this is what he wanted to do.
Again, I am not saying that he fully understood what this meant but I think a layperson with 
no financial  expertise  ought reasonably to have realised that the word high has an obvious  
implication that ones money is being  put at significant risk. Also,  whatever the limitations of 
the five risk categories  outlined, it is clear that they are on an ascending  scale of risk with 
medium/high being the second  highest. So again, I think Mr S was aware he was choosing, 
or agreeing to choose, a product with a pretty significant level of risk. Also, the phrase 
speculative, high risk funds is, in my view, a reasonably clear statement of this.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7166518