K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has continued to add charges  and interest on an 
account it said it had frozen.
background
Mrs F held a joint Lloyds account  with her husband who died in August 2015. Mrs F says 
she attended a Lloyds branch at the time and spoke  to the then manager and he told her 
that the account would be blocked  until probate was completed. Mrs F also says she was 
told that she could  ignore  all charges on the account  and that a death  certificate  was given to 
Lloyds. She says she was told she would be liable  to repay  half of the overdrawn balance on 
the account which at the time was just over £4,000. She also says Lloyds were aware of her 
husbands passing away as staff attended his funeral.
Mrs F says she found out in 2018 that the overdraft balance had risen to over £7,000  and 
that Lloyds said she needed to repay it. She would like the charges and interest removed 
and compensation  for the incorrect  and misleading  information she was given.
Lloyds says it placed the block on the account  in 2015 but that doesnt  stop charges as there 
was an overdraft on the account.  It says it issued monthly statements and letters which  
contained details  of the charges and so Mrs F should have been aware they hadnt  stopped.  
Lloyds accepts it hasnt  handled this matter  as it should and has offered to refund 13 months 
worth of charges  and pay £300 compensation making a total of about £1,314.  It doesnt  
accept receiving the death  certificate  in 2015 and says Mrs F should have spoken to it 
before she did.
Mrs F brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought Lloyds offer was fair and 
reasonable. The investigator accepted Mrs F was given advice to ignore the letters about the 
charges but didnt think it reasonable for Lloyds to have  frozen  the charges indefinitely. She 
also thought that as the account was jointly held then Mrs F was liable for the full overdraft 
and not half of it and that Mrs F should have  engaged with Lloyds about the debt. The 
investigator thought  that Lloyds offer to refund 13 months worth of charges was in effect a 
reasonable period of time for the debt to have  been repaid or probate sorted  out. The 
investigator also thought the offer of compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mrs F doesnt accept that view and says she was advised she had four years to file the 
Grant of Probate  and relied on the advice given by the then manager. She says she opened  
another account with an opening  balance on £20,000 and if shed known about the correct 
position about the charges, would  have either  paid the money into the joint account or paid 
off the balance. Mrs F also says Lloyds  removed her late husband from other business 
accounts which shows it had the death certificate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Mrs F will be disappointed by my 
decision. I also make it clear that I think Lloyds hasnt handled matters  as it should have and 
I have no doubt  its then branch manager gave Mrs F incorrect  advice. But overall Im 
satisfied Lloyds offer to put matters right is fair and reasonable for the reasons I will explain.
Ref: DRN70492462I have no reason to doubt what Mrs F says that she was told by the then Lloyds manager  in 
2015. And I think that information was wrong  as there was an overdraft on the account and 
charges were likely  to be applied unless a different type of block was applied.  Im satisfied 
Mrs F relied  on that advice and ignored  the letters she received from Lloyds about the 
charges. But I agree  with the investigator that the account couldnt remain  in that position 
indefinitely and it would not have been reasonable to have expected Lloyds to freeze the 
account and charges for three years.
I also agree  with the investigator that Mrs F should  have spoken  to Lloyds and updated  it on 
any progress with the Grant of Probate  or what was happening with the estate. I cant  see 
that Mrs F has told us what the position was or why matters took so long to resolve.  I 
appreciate Mrs F says she could have  repaid  the overdraft in 2015 when she opened the 
new account. But she hasnt explained  why she didnt do so and I can see that Mrs F 
accepts that she didnt need  the Grant of Probate to close the account and repay the 
balance in 2015.
Im satisfied that Mrs F is liable  for the full balance and not half of the balance as she 
originally thought. And I think  Lloyds offer effectively removes 13 months worth of charges.  I 
think that would have been  a reasonable period of time for Mrs F to either have repaid the 
balance or spoken  to Lloyds and explained what was happening. I also think  Lloyds offer of 
compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable and reflects the level of its mistake.
Overall I dont think Lloyds has dealt with this whole  process as it should and I accept it 
knew about Mrs Fs husbands passing  away as Ive seen  e-mails  offering condolences from 
Lloyds staff. But Im satisfied its made a fair and reasonable  offer to put matters  right.
I appreciate how strongly Mrs F feels  about whats happened and so I will leave it to her to 
decide if she wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle  this 
complaint. Mrs Fs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement  of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7049246