K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about 20 short term loans Sunny provided to Miss M between 
December 2015  and March 2018.  All the loans have been  repaid. The loans were  repayable  
by six monthly instalments. Miss Ms lending  history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 16/12/15 26/1/16 £450
2. 3/1/16 1/6/16 £200
3. 27/1/16 7/2/16 £50
4. 26/2/16 2/6/16 £250
5. 17/6/16 12/7/16 £450
6. 26/6/16 12/7/16 £250
7. 12/7/16 13/9/16 £350
8. 14/7/16 31/8/16 £100
9. 2/9/16 13/9/16 £250
10. 11/12/16 2/1/17 £450
11. 17/2/17 3/4/17 £450
12. 8/5/17 16/5/17 £450
13. 16/8/17 31/1/18 £450
14. 14/9/17 31/10/17 £50
15. 2/10/17 6/10/17 £50
16. 8/11/17 11/4/18 £150
17. 16/12/17 5/3/18 £100
18. 9/1/18 31/1/18 £150
19. 3/2/18 28/2/18 £200
20. 5/3/18 24/7/18 £300
Sunny said that it had conducted creditworthiness checks, assessed Miss Ms ability to 
afford the repayments  and considered how she was managing her other  debts. It concluded 
that it was responsible to advance the credit to Miss M based on its checks. But it also told 
this service that at the point where Miss Ms usage of its loans extended beyond twelve 
months, it was possible that she might  have started  to become reliant  on credit.  So its 
lending may not have  been suitable from Loan 13. It proposed  to refund the interest  paid on 
Loans 13 to 20, pay 8% simple interest on the refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement  and remove the loans from Miss Ms credit file. 
Miss M rejected Sunnys  offer.
our adjudicators view
 
Our adjudicator recommended  that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld in part. He noted  
that Sunny had offered  to settle Miss Ms complaint about Loans 13 to 20. He said that 
Loans 5 onwards shouldnt have been  given  to Miss M. 
Ref: DRN72811392Sunny responded to say that Miss M didnt have to use more than 7.18% of her income to 
repay the loans.  It noted that Miss Ms income  ranged from £1,700  to £1,778.  It said that it 
asked Miss M for details of her income and all expenses including other short  term loans. It 
took into account Miss Ms repayments  to it and other credit  commitments declared by 
Miss M or reported to the credit reference agencies  to assess  the loans (whichever amount 
was the higher). It said that at the time of Loan 4, Miss Ms disposable income was more 
than sufficient to cover  her additional  monthly  repayments. Sunny also noted that there were 
breaks of around  three months  between Loans  9 and 10 and Loans 12 and 13. Sunny said it 
undertook a new affordability  and creditworthiness assessment using the data provided and 
further information provided by the credit  reference agencies before each loan.   
Sunny then offered to uphold Miss Ms complaint about Loans 10 onwards. It said that it felt 
it would  have been prudent to ask more questions about Miss Ms personal circumstances 
when she increased  the amount she was borrowing when she applied for Loan  10. It 
proposed to refund the interest paid on Loans 10 to 20, pay 8% simple interest on the 
refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement and remove  the loans from 
Miss Ms credit file. 
Miss M rejected Sunnys  offer so the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman,  to 
assess.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss M 
and to Sunny on 24 December  2019.  I summarise my findings:
As Sunny had offered  to settle  Loans  10 to 20, I hadnt investigated the affordability of these  
loans but I included Sunnys proposed redress for these loans in my award.
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Miss M the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough  checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
Ref: DRN72811393refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Miss M could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ms complaint.
Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Miss M. It had asked her for details of 
her income and expenditure. Miss Ms declared income  was £1,700  for Loans 1 to 9. 
Miss M declared  her expenditure as between £685 and £1,043 for those loans. 
Sunny had also checked Miss Ms credit  file before agreeing to the loans. It had provided us 
with a summary of the results of its credit checks. The summary  showed that Miss M wasnt  
bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt management plan. It also 
showed that there had been a defaulted account  in the previous four months from Loan 3. 
Id seen Miss Ms credit report  but I couldnt  see any defaults on it before Miss Ms early  
loans with Sunny.  But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit search, the 
information it saw didnt usually provide the same  level of detail that a consumers credit  
search would  and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of 
a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised.  I was also aware that 
not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, 
not all of Miss Ms accounts might have been  identified by Sunnys credit  check. So, this 
might have explained any differences between the information provided  by Sunnys credit 
check and Miss Ms actual situation.
Regarding Loans 1 to 4, I could see that the repayments that Miss M needed to make were 
relatively modest compared  to the income  that shed declared to Sunny. The highest  total 
repayment amounts  for Loans 1 and 2 (which were repayable for much of the same  time) 
were around  £180. The highest repayments for Loans 3 and 4 (when repaid together with 
the repayments for Loan 2) were less than this amount. I didnt think the repayment amounts 
for Loans 1 to 4 were so large that it was obvious  they wouldve caused Miss M financial 
difficulty.
Ref: DRN72811394So given Miss Ms repayment  amounts for Loans 1 to 4, and what was apparent  about  her 
circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to have 
asked her for the amount  of information that would have been  needed  to show the lending 
was unsustainable.   
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Miss M had provided or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what she was saying.  So I didnt think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans 1 to 4 
to Miss M.
Miss M took out Loan 5 around 15 days after repaying Loan 4. The loan amount had 
increased to £450  although the monthly loan repayments were  around £121. This was less 
than the total repayments shed been making  on Loans 2 and 4 for around the previous 
three months. 
Id noted that the adjudicator upheld Loan  5 as hed said that Miss M was showing signs  of 
struggling to repay her previous loans. But I could see that all of Miss Ms previous  loans had 
been repaid early and there  didnt  appear  to be any missed repayments. The adjudicator had 
also said that the amounts borrowed were not consistently reducing. But I could see that the 
total amount being borrowed at any one time reduced after Loan 2. Nevertheless  as Loan 5 
was Miss Ms fifth loan in around six months,  I thought that Sunny should have been 
concerned that Miss M might have  been  reliant on its lending. And I didnt think it was 
reasonable for Sunny to base its assessment before Loan 5 on the information  provided by 
Miss M without taking steps to independently check what shed declared. So I thought  it 
might have been proportionate  at this time for Sunny  to have independently reviewed the 
true state of Miss Ms finances. As far as I could see Sunny didnt do this. So I needed to 
think about what Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate  checks.  
Id checked Miss Ms credit report to see what proportionate checks  might have shown. I 
couldnt see any other short term loans on Miss Ms credit report  which were repayable at 
the same  time as Loan  5. I would have also normally checked a consumers bank 
statements to see what proportionate  checks might have shown. But unfortunately Id not 
seen Miss Ms bank statements for the month before Loan 5. Id only seen statements for a 
part of the month.  So I couldnt say that if Sunny  had completed sufficient checks, it would 
have found that Miss M couldnt afford to repay Loan 5 sustainably.  So I couldnt say that 
Sunny was wrong to give Loan  5 to Miss M.
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Miss M to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ms case, I thought  that this point was reached by 
Loan 6. I said this because:
When Miss M applied for Loan 6 she already had a loan of £450  outstanding which  
shed taken out just nine days earlier. So the total outstanding loans balance when 
she took out Loan 6 would have been  £700 which was a higher total than any of her 
previous outstanding loans. 
By Loan  6, Miss M had been  borrowing from Sunny almost continuously for over six 
months with only a 15 day break between Loans  4 and 5. I didnt think  it would have 
Ref: DRN72811395been reasonable for Sunny to have concluded  that this gap was any indication  that 
Miss Ms finances had moved on from whatever situation had required her previous 
loans.
Miss M wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Sunny. And Miss M 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
I thought Sunny should have seen  that Miss M was showing  signs of dependency  on 
this credit and that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. 
I could see that as Sunny didnt stop lending at this point, Miss M went on to take out 
another 14 loans  in the following 21 months. I thought that Miss M had lost out because  
Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from Loan  6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Ms ability 
to access mainstream  credit and so had kept her in the market  for these high-cost 
loans.
The fact that the loans  were  repaid didnt mean  that they were repaid sustainably,  or 
without causing  Miss M undue  difficulty. 
Id noted that Sunny  had said that Miss M didnt have to use more than 7.18% of her income 
to repay  the loans.  Sunny had also said that it made credit checks  and had asked about 
other short term loans.  It had also used the information Miss M had provided to assess the 
affordability of the loans.  But I thought  Sunny knew (or ought to have  known) from previous 
decisions (as well as what was set out on our website) that there were cases  where  this 
service considered the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each loan. And 
there would be times when the pattern of lending alone was enough to indicate that a 
consumer was likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should 
relending continue. 
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny  would know, the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of 
high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of 
unsustainable lending  patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Miss M or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part and say that Sunny needed to pay Miss M some  
compensation relating to Loans  6 to 20. So Id said Sunny should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss M paid on Loans 6 to 20.
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on the refunds  from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
remove all entries about  Loans 6 to 20 from Miss Ms credit file.
 
Ref: DRN72811396*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Miss M responded to my provisional decision to say she was willing  to accept  my findings.
Sunny responded at length  to my provisional decision and asked me to reconsider  my 
decision in relation to Loans 6 to 9. It said in summary:
-With regard to Loan 5, it referred  to me saying that a total loan balance of £700 was 
outstanding when Miss M took out Loan  6. But it said that Miss M had already made 
repayments on Loan 5 before she took out Loan  6. So her total liability was £411.52.
-The borrowing period  of six months that Id referred to wasnt  an extended period of 
time, and the fact that there were no significant  breaks during this period didnt 
indicate that Miss M was experiencing a situation.
-It said there was no evidence that Miss M was showing signs  of dependency.
-It said there was no clear pattern that Miss M was borrowing to cover the hole in her 
finances from repaying previous loans from Sunny.
-I should have  considered other factors such as Miss M repaying  her loans on time,  
using an average  of 5% of her income  to make the repayments on Loans 1 to 9 and 
having an average amount of £670  to make her repayments.
-There was no evidence that Miss M was experiencing  financial difficulties  when she 
applied for Loans 1 to 9.
-It was incorrect to assume that the number of loans  impaired  Miss Ms ability to 
access mainstream credit.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I appreciate that Sunny  disagrees  with my finding on Loans 6 to 9. Ive taken carefully into 
account everything Sunny has said in response to my provisional  decision. But I dont think 
Sunny has said anything that affects my overall  view.
I note Sunnys comments about  Miss Ms total liability at the time of Loan  6. I can see that 
Miss M had made some repayments on Loan  5. But the total amount outstanding on both 
Loans 5 and 6 was still higher than three  of her previous five loans and I think that showed 
that Miss M wasnt getting  to grips with her borrowing.
I note what Sunny has said about  six months  not being an extended period of time. But by 
the time of Loan 6, Miss M had taken out six loans in just under seven months.  I dont think  
Sunny could have  reasonably concluded  that Miss M needed  this money  for a one-off issue.
Ref: DRN72811397I still think its reasonable to conclude that theres  a point at which the pattern of lending, in 
itself, indicates  that the lending isnt sustainable.  Im satisfied that point was at Loan 6 in this 
case. I appreciate  that Sunny takes a different  view but Im not persuaded by its arguments. 
By Loan 6, Miss M had taken out six loans in just under seven months  and she hadnt yet 
repaid Loan 5. Miss M had been  indebted  to Sunny for the whole of the period she had been 
borrowing until then except for a short gap of 15 days between Loans 4 and 5. 
The fact that Miss M repaid her loans, used an average of 5% of her income  to make the 
repayments, had an average of £670  to make  her repayments and didnt report  financial 
hardship doesnt show that the repayments were sustainable. And I think that by the time of 
Loan 6 she wasnt  taking the loans  to help her over a short-term  cash flow problem but to 
cover an ongoing  need. That isnt what these  high-interest  loans are intended to be used for. 
And at the time of the application for Loan  6 Sunny  ought to have realised that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I also remain of the view that a prospective  lender would  consider the number of short-term 
loans Miss M had taken  out with Sunny and take a negative view. So, I think  its fair that all 
information about Loans 6 to 20 is removed from Miss Ms credit file. 
Considering everything, I think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss M paid on Loans 6 to 20.
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds  from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*; and
3.Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 20 from Miss Ms credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7281139