K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited hasnt backdated  his annuity to his 
state retirement age.
background
Mr L was in a final salary scheme  until 1983.  When the scheme  closed, his benefits were 
secured in a deferred annuity  bond.  It provided for a monthly income from Mr Ls 65th 
birthday in May 2017.  The bond  was originally offered by General Accident  and is now 
administered by Aviva.
In July 2017 Mr L asked Aviva  for a Retirement  Pack for his bond. Aviva sent a Retirement 
Pack the next day. This pack included a Retirement Illustration, an illustration of the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  and gave details of what  Mr L needed to do to claim 
the benefits. It included a Retiring Now form on which Mr L could select what  benefits he 
wanted to take.  Mr L returned this form in November 2018.  Aviva subsequently issued a 
Retirement Benefit Schedule; it confirmed Mr Ls retirement date of 8 November 2018 which  
would be the date payments to Mr L would start.
Mr L queried the dates  with Aviva.  He said the payments  should  be backdated to cover  the 
period from May 2017, when Mr L turned 65, and the confirmed retirement  date in his bond 
documentation. Aviva  didnt respond to this query, so Mr L raised  a complaint in January 
2019.
Aviva replied apologising for not responding to Mr Ls initial query and paid £50 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by this delay. In terms of backdating payments, 
Aviva said that, although benefits can be paid from state pension  age, they are paid when  
Aviva receives a request to pay the benefits  of the policy. Aviva said it wasnt  possible to 
backdate the payments because of Government  legislation.
Mr L was unhappy  with Avivas response and complained to this service  in April 2019. He 
reiterated that Aviva should backdate payments  to cover the period from May 2017 to 
November 2018.  Mr L estimated  that Aviva should  pay him about  £3,800.
Initially, our investigator said:
Hed expect a pension  provider to try to contact a policyholder  some  months before the 
retirement date. It wasnt clear why Aviva  hadnt  tried to contact Mr L before his 65th 
birthday.
He recommended that Aviva should  pay £300 compensation for the inconvenience Mr L 
had experienced as Aviva hadnt contacted Mr L before his 65th birthday.
Hed examined the Retirement Illustration and, although it doesnt explicitly say payment 
wont start until the relevant forms have been returned, this is common in the industry.
It took Mr L a long time to complete and return the Retiring  Now form; Aviva cant be held 
responsible for this delay.
He felt it was reasonable for Aviva  to backdate payments to the date when it received 
Mr Ls completed Retiring Now form. Had it not already  done  so, he would  have asked 
Aviva to do this. But he wasnt asking Aviva to backdate the payments any further.
He said the bond doesnt have a selected  retirement age, but payment can begin from 
Mr Ls 65th birthday. The bond doesnt specifically bind Aviva to pay benefits from Mr Ls 
65th birthday, no matter what.
Ref: DRN76906132Mr L rejected the investigators opinion and the suggested £300 compensation. He made the 
following points:
He accepted that he didnt reply to the retirement  pack  until November 2018. He 
understood Aviva had no obligation  to make  payments until he provided  certain  
information. He feels the only critical information  is that he was alive on his 65th birthday 
(otherwise the annuity wouldnt be paid). This information was given to Aviva  in 
November 2018. Mr L believes giving this information determines when payments should 
start, and the bond determines  how much  he should be paid.
Aviva  is contractually bound by the terms of the bond; specifically, monthly payments 
starting in May 2017. The payments are simply debts payable  each month.  The 
payments for the period May 2017  to November 2018 are arrears  and are overdue. 
These should be paid to him.
Aviva also rejected the investigators opinion. It provided evidence that it tried to contact Mr L 
in May 2016.  Avivas  says its procedure is to try to contact policyholders 12 months before 
the nominated  retirement date. But Aviva didnt  have a current  address  for Mr L. So it tried to 
contact him at the address  it held for him at that time. Aviva says it didnt hear back from 
Mr L. A year later, Aviva  used  a third party  Capita - to locate Mr L. This was successful and 
Mr L got in touch with Aviva in July 2017.  So Aviva felt the £300 compensation 
recommended by the investigator was excessive  and the £50 compensation it had offered 
was fair and reasonable.
Based on this information, our investigator changed  his opinion and confirmed he wouldnt 
be asking Aviva to do any more, other than the £50 it had already paid in compensation.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payments to Mr L could  have started  in May 2017  when he reached state retirement age. 
But the effective  start date of the payments was November  2018, when Aviva received Mr 
Ls completed Retiring Now form. Aviva hasnt  backdated the payments to May 2017. The 
main crux of Mr Ls complaint is that he should  receive payments for the period from May 
2017 to November 2018.
I considered first why the payments didnt start in May 2017 as they could  have done.  
In line with its procedures  Aviva tried to contact Mr L in May 2016, a year before his state  
retirement date. Ive seen  the letter Aviva sent to Mr L. It asks Mr L to confirm  whether he is 
an Aviva  policyholder and to confirm his contact details. Mr L got in touch with Aviva in July 
2017. After this, a retirement pack was subsequently sent to Mr L. This retirement pack  was 
sent to the same address  as the initial letter sent by Aviva in May 2016.  Mr L replied to Aviva 
by returning the Retiring  Now  form in November 2018, some sixteen months later.  Mr L 
says he regrets not responding sooner. He says he was considering  commuting his annuity 
but hadnt made a final decision. Subsequently, some  personal matters, including moving  his 
mother into a care home meant that he didnt respond.
Ref: DRN76906133Aviva contacted Mr L with plenty  of time before he turned  65 and it acted promptly when 
Mr L confirmed his address. The main  reasons  for the payments not starting in May 2017  as 
they could have done is Mr L not responding to Avivas first letter and Mr Ls delay in 
returning the necessary forms to start the payments.
I then looked at whether the payments should  be backdated. 
Mr L contends  that the terms of the bond  are clear.  Payments should have commenced in 
May 2017. He feels that, just because the payments started  later, it doesnt mean that Aviva 
doesnt have to make the backdated  payments.
Ive looked carefully  at the bond  documentation and can see it says that the annuity will be 
paid at a rate of £2,556.36 per annum and is to commence from 12 May 2017. Looking  at 
this in isolation I can understand  how Mr L might  take the view that the date and the amount 
are fixed.   But further on in the bond documentation,  there  is provision for both the amount 
and the start date of the payment to be different  from those mentioned  earlier.  In the special 
provisions section of the bond documentation,  there is the option for payment of the Annuity  
to start earlier than 12 May 2017. It says,  If the 1st Annuitant retires  early the Annuity (which 
will be reduced to take account of early retirement) may be paid before the Annuity  
Commencement Date but not earlier  than the 50th birthday . Similarly the bond also allows  
for payment of the annuity to be deferred and paid later than the planned Annuity 
Commencement Date. The bond says,  If the 1ST Annuitant is still actively  employed after the 
Annuity Commencement  Date, payment of the Annuity (which  will be increased to take 
account of state  retirement) may be deferred to not later than the 70th birthday.
Although Mr L might  not have still been actively employed by age 65, it shows  that deferring 
or advancing payment of the annuity  is possible.  Deferring  payment of an annuity is not 
uncommon. I appreciate  Mr L might  have not made the conscious  decision to defer his 
annuity. But he effectively  deferred  the start date of the annuity  by not returning the required 
paperwork until November 2018.
Ive also looked  at the retirement pack sent by Aviva. The Retirement Illustration includes a 
section which says:  Your benefits  will be calculated on your retirement date or the date we 
receive the completed 'Retiring Now' form, whichever is later  (my emphasis), to take into 
account the conditions that apply then.. This is displayed prominently on the first page  of the 
Illustration. The same  text also appears on the notes  page for the GMP. I then looked at the 
Retiring Now form which  Mr L had to complete and sign. On the notes for completing  this 
form it says, The pension  start date will change if the Retiring Now form is returned after 
the retirement date. This echoes the text in the Retirement Illustration.
Mr L has pointed out that the GMP Illustration says, Pension for State Pension Age (in bold) 
and I concede that its not made  clear why it says this here. But equally I dont think this 
would have reasonably given Mr L the impression payments would be backdated. This 
section is directly under an introductory sentence for the Illustration which  assumes 
retirement on 7 July 2017. And the GMP illustration shows  the pension is monthly from 7 
July 2017. In addition, the Retirement Illustration and the Retiring  Now form both have a 
retirement date of 7 July 2017.
So I think there is sufficient information in the Retirement Illustration to alert Mr L to the 
change in payment  date of the annuity. I also think the Illustration makes clear  that payment 
of the annuity  would start later than the date set out in the bond.  
Ref: DRN76906134The consequence of deferring when the payments from the annuity will start is that the 
annuity has been revalued.  Had payments started  in May 2017, the annuity would have paid 
£2,556.36 per year. The Retirement Illustration was issued by Aviva  in July 2017.  This is 
later than the planned commencement date of annuity. As a result the amount of the annuity  
increased to £2,577.84 per year due to a revaluation. And, by the time payments from the 
annuity started in November 2018,  it had risen  again to £2,778.36. Because  the annuity has 
started later than planned, Mr L now has a higher annuity payment  for life.
Ive also considered how Aviva dealt  with Mr Ls complaint. Aviva didnt respond when Mr L 
first queried the dates  of his payments in November  2018. It was only when Mr L 
subsequently complained  that Aviva investigated.  It wrote in February 2019, apologising for 
not responding to his query and paid Mr L £50 compensation. Mr L didnt receive  this letter  
until March 2019  as he was out of the country. In the interim he sent a number of emails 
asking for updates on his complaint. But Aviva didnt respond,  and it wasnt  until Mr L 
returned to the UK in mid-March that he confirmed  hed received the £50 compensation and 
expressed his dissatisfaction with Avivas  response to his complaint. I think  Aviva  could  have 
handled Mr Ls query and complaint better than it did. But I think  £50 compensation is fair 
and reasonable for the delays in Avivas responses.
To summarise, whilst I can understand that Mr L might feel the bond  entitles him to annuity 
payments from May 2017, I think there were enough indicators in the documentation sent by 
Aviva to alert him that the payments would start after the commencement date given in the 
bond. Furthermore, the bond documentation  allows for payments to be deferred or paid 
early. Deferral of annuity payments is not uncommon. Having  looked  at the evidence, I think  
Aviva is right to conclude that payments to Mr L should start from 8 November 2018,  when  
Mr L returned the necessary documentation  to claim the benefits  from the bond.  Aviva 
doesnt have to cover the period from May 2017 to November 2018.  To answer Mr Ls main 
point directly, I dont think Aviva have broken the terms of the bond, which contains 
provisions to show that both the start date and the amount of the annuity can be different 
from that given in the bond. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I think  the £50 compensation already 
paid is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd to do any 
more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7690613