K820x#14complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card. I know 
Miss B has complained  about  a number of different products, so to be clear,  this decision is 
about the River Island  card she took out in 2001. 
A company called AXA France IARD  is now responsible for complaints about these sales.  Ill 
therefore mainly refer to AXA throughout this final decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Miss B disagreed and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
These events are obviously from a considerable time ago and we have very little information 
to go on. AXA says its records indicate  the policy was sold over the telephone a few months 
after the store card had already been  taken out, probably in a store setting.  Miss B says she 
wouldnt have ever agreed to PPI.
I dont doubt Miss B genuinely recalls events  that way. However, weve  seen a number of 
very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the company involved to gain an 
understanding of the processes that were  generally used in these cases. The AXA 
description of how this sale took place is in accordance with my understanding  of how many  
consumers bought this type of PPI with existing store cards  at around that time.
Theres no recording of the telephone  sales call and AXA doesnt  have any notes from it. I 
dont think thats  surprising or unreasonable given that this all took place 20 years ago and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. But from the documentation weve 
previously seen from similar sales, we think the telephone guidance would have  instructed 
the call-handler to explain the PPI was optional and get the consumers permission to add 
the policy. 
I sympathise and understand that Miss B feels strongly about being sold this PPI cover,  but 
given what AXAs records show  and my own experience of similar  sales - I think its likely a 
telephone call did take place, which Miss B no longer remembers.  
But in thinking more widely about  what might  have happened,  I think  the charges for the PPI 
would have started to then appear on Miss Bs monthly card statements  and I can see from 
her account  that she held it for a while. So, I think if she hadnt  ever agreed to the PPI, she 
would have most likely wanted to know what the charges were for. These things, taken 
together, make me think its more likely Miss B agreed to buy the PPI policy with her store 
card during  that call.
Ref: DRN75414602My experience is that AXA provided a non-advised sale.  This means  it needed only to 
provide enough clear  information for Miss B to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. I simply cant say whether this was done  because theres nothing to refer to. But I 
think its just as likely that important information  was given   as it wasnt.  And I think  its fair 
for me to assume Miss B would have  at least been  sent something by the third-party insurer 
explaining the cover  and what  it did.
I think Miss Bs existing sickness protection with her job at the time would have been quite 
moderate. Ive also checked that Miss B was eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of 
the major  exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI was 
relatively expensive,  but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero.  These  benefits  would have been  in 
addition to any other means  Miss B had in place at the time.
So, I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been of use in her situation. I think  
this could explain why she probably  chose to agree  to it during the call.
For me to uphold Miss Bs complaint, Id need  to think  it was more likely that she wasnt 
given an option  or there were other serious  flaws  in the way the policy  was sold. I just dont 
have that evidence and Im afraid  I cant say this policy was mis-sold.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss B.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint  and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7541460