K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined her claim under her travel insurance 
policy when her handbag was stolen  when she was on a trip abroad.
background
In August  2018  Ms S had her handbag stolen whilst she was at a breakfast at her hotel.
She says she left her bag underneath the table where two family members  were sitting whilst 
she went to the buffet counter to get her breakfast. She says someone grabbed  their 
attention from outside  by knocking on the window,  and whilst they were  distracted someone 
grabbed the bag. She saw the thief but couldn't react in time. Following the theft she went  to 
the local police who provided her with a stamped report detailing the incident.
Ms S submitted a claim to AWP  for the bag and its contents.  It was a designer  bag and 
contained a valuable item of jewellery and cash.  Including the contents her claim was about 
£1200.
AWP reviewed  the circumstances of her claim,  but rejected it. It referred her to the 
conditions and exclusions of her policy, specifically "Section 5 - Personal possessions" 
which states:
 
"WHAT YOU ARE NOT  COVERED FOR
 
Loss or theft of, or damage to, the following.
 
 Personal  possessions unless they are on your person, locked in the accommodation you 
are using on your journey  or they are out of sight in the locked boot or covered luggage area 
of a locked motor vehicle.
 
 Valuables unless they are on your person or locked in a safe or safety  deposit  box (if one is 
available) or locked in the accommodation you are using on your journey."
 
The policy defines  "Valuables" as the following:
 
"Valuables
 
Jewellery, watches, items made of or containing precious metals or semi/precious stones, 
furs, binoculars, telescopes, any kind of non-digital photographic equipment."
 
It also referred to the policy conditions  and exclusions under "Section  6 - Personal money" 
which states:
 
"WHAT YOU ARE NOT  COVERED FOR
 
Loss or theft of personal money,  unless it is on your person, locked  in a safe or safety 
deposit box (if one is available)  or locked in the accommodation you are using  on your 
journey."
 
AWP has declined Ms Ss claim because her bag wasnt on her person at the time it was 
stolen as shed  left it with two family  members whilst she went  to get her breakfast. It has 
also said that the police report she obtained wasnt, in its view, a full report.
Ref: DRN78002202Ms S considers that AWP has been  unreasonable in declining  her claim. She has explained  
that her bag wasnt left unattended  as it was within touching distance of two family members.  
She explains it would have been difficult to have helped herself to breakfast from a buffet 
whilst carrying  a bag, and that she acted responsibly in leaving it in the custody of two family  
members. She also explains that the police report she obtained was what she was provided 
with having reported the theft to the local police, and bore their stamp.  She believed this to 
be a full report.
As Ms S wasnt  satisfied with AWPs response to her claim, she brought  her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered that AWP had been unreasonable in declining her claim 
given the circumstances, and thought that AWP should meet it.
AWP doesnt agree with our investigators  assessment,  so Ms Ss complaint has been  
referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Ms Ss complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at the terms of Ms Ss policy with AWP. Whilst I take account of the wording upon 
which AWP relies  for rejecting her claim, and which is quoted above, Ive also taken account 
of a condition  in her policy  which states:  
CONDITIONS
The following  conditions apply to the whole of your policy. Please read these carefully as we 
can only pay your claim if you meet these:
2 You take reasonable care to protect yourself and your property against accident, injury,  
loss and damage and act as if you are not insured  and to minimise any potential claim.
Every claim needs to be assessed  on its own individual circumstances, and I consider that a 
strict interpretation of the wording of her policy  is impractical and unreasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms Ss case. Had she left her bag unattended, I wouldve agreed with AWP 
that her claim should be declined. But I think that Ms S took reasonable and appropriate  
steps to ensure the safety of her bag. I think that in the circumstances  she acted in the 
manner of a prudent non-insured person. 
I also consider that Ms S has done all she could reasonably have done to obtain a police 
report and that this should satisfy  the requirement for a report in her policy.
I think that in declining Ms Ss claim AWP has acted unfairly and unreasonably and that it 
should meet  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons Ive given above, I require AWP  P&C SA to meet  Ms 
Ss claim  subject to any other policy terms or limits  and to any excess.
I also require AWP P&C SA to pay interest  on the sum payable  at the simple rate of 8% a 
year from the date Ms S made her claim to the date payment is made to her.
Ref: DRN78002203If AWP P&C SA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much  its taken off. It should  also give Ms S a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7800220