K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1998. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Bank of Ireland had to make  it clear  to Mr and Mrs W that they had a 
choice about it. But Mr and Mrs W say they werent  given any options about the PPI and it 
was just added to their mortgage.
Bank of Ireland  has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws application form for the mortgage.  
This included a section  on PPI with yes and no boxes to be ticked to show  whether they 
wanted to take it out, and the yes box has been ticked. The form has also been  completed 
to show the monthly  benefit and benefit  split Mr and Mrs W wanted, and Mr and Mrs W have 
signed at the end of the PPI section to confirm the selections.
Bank of Ireland  has also sent us a copy of the mortgage  offer letter for Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage, which shows the monthly cost of the PPI policy.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Bank  of Ireland did make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that 
they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs W chose to take it, knowing they 
didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Bank  of Ireland  gave Mr and Mrs W any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to them. This means Bank  of 
Ireland didnt have  to check  if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs W. But it did have to make 
sure they got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Bank of Ireland gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
And theyve  told us they didnt have any sick pay or other means they couldve used to make 
their repayments if they werent earning.  So the PPI would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Ws property couldve 
been at risk if they couldnt make their repayments.  So I think  they couldve found the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN70661572my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7066157