K820x#14complaint
Mrs R has complained that Quilter Wealth Ltd mis-sold her an income protection insurance policy.
background
In 2016, Mrs R agreed to take out an unemployment  insurance policy  after speaking to an 
adviser from Quilter Wealth. The policy would pay benefit for up to twelve months in the 
event that Mrs R was made  involuntarily  unemployed.
In 2018, Mrs R was made unemployed. She made a claim under her policy. However, the 
insurer explained that because she was paid twelve  weeks  salary  in lieu of notice, she 
wouldnt be eligible  to receive  benefit until the end of this twelve week period.
Mrs R complained to Quilter Wealth that this hadnt been made clear to her when she took 
out the policy. She therefore wanted a full refund of her premiums up to the date she 
became aware  of this clause.
Quilter Wealth  didnt  uphold the complaint. It was satisfied the policy  had been  suitable for 
Mrs R and that she had been provided with appropriate information  at the time of sale.
Mrs R was unhappy at Quilter Wealths response. She referred her complaint to us. She said 
shed understood  she would only have  to wait thirty days and then would receive benefit  
backdated to her first date of unemployment.  If shed known of this clause, she said she 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted that the 
clause was mentioned in a key features document which he was satisfied Quilter Wealth had 
sent to Mrs R before the policy started. He considered the clause wasnt unusual  in such 
policies. Accordingly,  he was satisfied that Quilter Wealth  had done  nothing wrong. 
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said she hadnt  received the key features 
document and felt that the clause hadnt  properly  been brought  to her attention.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence shows that the adviser  carried out a fact find over the telephone. This 
confirmed that Mrs R wanted insurance to provide an income  in case  she was made 
unemployed. The adviser recommended an unemployment insurance policy with a level of 
benefit appropriate for Mrs Rs needs and which, after a waiting period of 30 days, would pay 
benefit from the first day of unemployment  for a period of up to twelve months. Im satisfied 
that his recommendation was suitable  for Mrs R.
Ref: DRN78134642The adviser wrote to Mrs R following the meeting to confirm his recommendation and 
enclosing the policys key features document. Mrs R says she didnt receive this letter but 
Im satisfied it was sent to the correct address. If Mrs R didnt receive any documentation at 
the time,  I would have  expected her to chase the matter up with the adviser.
The key features document stated:
If you have  any payment  in lieu of notice your waiting period will not begin until after your 
payment in lieu of notice  has ended.  (For the full definition of payment in lieu of notice, 
please refer to the certificate of insurance).
It also gave an example of how this would work  in practice.
Im satisfied that this made clear how payment in lieu of notice would  affect the 
policyholders entitlement  to receive benefit.  Im further satisfied that this is not an unusual  
clause in such policies  and therefore Quilter  Wealth wasnt required to highlight it over and 
above what was said in the key features document.
It is unfortunate if Mrs R feels that the policy wasnt suitable for her in light of the clause 
relating to payment in lieu of notice.  However,  Im satisfied that Quilter Wealth was not at 
fault in this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7813464