K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) didnt offer her enough  for her written-off car.
background
UKI offered Miss A £485 for her car after deducting  £300 from its market value for pre-
existing damage.  Miss A said she couldnt  replace it with a similar car for that sum.  She 
thought UKI should pay her £2,000 for it. Miss A says UKI asked her to provide adverts. She 
says she did so, but that UKI told her they werent  looked at and wouldnt raise  its offer.  She 
then found that UKI had paid £485 into her bank account as an interim payment.
UKI said it had used a leading  national  trade  guide  to value Miss As car before adjusting  the 
valuation figure  of £785 by £300  to take into account factors such as mileage and condition.    
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably. He said advertised  prices could be 
higher than the price vehicles were actually  sold for. He said hed checked the national trade 
guides and the valuation  UKI placed on Miss As car was the highest one quoted.  
Miss A said shed spent  time finding examples  that UKI then didnt look at. She said it had no 
right to put money  into her account, as that forced the disputed sum on her. The investigator 
acknowledged Miss As frustration but said he couldnt comment on UKIs procedures.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We think the best way to value cars is to rely on the figures quoted in the national trade 
guides. They  reflect  the prices cars are likely to be sold for, rather than the asking prices 
quoted in adverts. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on the trade guide valuation  it 
used. We checked  the prices set out in the trade guides, which confirmed that UKI relied  on 
the one that quoted the most for Miss As car. The other guides  quoted  between  £763 and 
£630 for it  prior to any deduction for pre-accident  damage.
We asked UKI to explain what the deduction  of £300 was based  on. UKIs  engineer  said it 
had already been explained to Miss A. He said there was a dent to the rear panel and wheel 
arch on one side of the car and another dent to the wing on the other  side of it, plus a 
scratched and broken mirror cap. Images supplied by UKI showed the damage.  We think 
scratches and minor damage to older cars wouldnt  necessarily affect their value. But I think 
it was reasonable  for UKI to decide  that the damage found by the engineer on Miss As car 
was more than minor. 
The engineer said the minimum cost of repair (without the cost of paint blending  or bumper 
removal) would be £611. We think its fair for an insurer to deduct  half the expected  cost of 
repairs to the car. UKI deducted slightly less than that. I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
make a deduction of £300.  
Ref: DRN70366952I dont think Miss A was disadvantaged by UKI paying what  it thought  was the cars  market 
value into her account as an interim offer. Miss A was still able to argue that she should be 
paid more, whilst having the benefit  of the sum already paid. I think  UKI should have told 
Miss A that it was going to make the payment. But if it didnt do so I cant  see how that would 
have caused any problems. An interim  payment doesnt stop discussions about  a cars 
valuation continuing.  Had Miss A provided evidence after that point which  made a difference, 
UKI may well have offered her an extra payment.
In terms of the adverts Miss A provided,  we think  insurers  should look at all the available 
evidence. Adverts  are unlikely to make a difference, as the prices quoted in them are open 
to negotiation. And small differences  between cars can make a big difference to their value. 
But on rare occasions,  they may be more persuasive than the trade guide valuations.  
Miss A complained to UKI that its engineer told her he hadnt looked at the adverts she sent 
to it. But theres a note in UKs file by the engineer that says the examples Miss A provided  
were unreasonably priced. He also said Miss A hadnt taken account the high mileage  and 
pre-accident damage  to her car. The engineer spoke  to Miss A after this. By that time hed 
looked at other trade guide  valuations.  It looks as though the engineer told Miss A that UKI 
relies on valuation services rather than internet research. 
Although it seems the engineer did look at the adverts, I can see why Miss A thought he 
didnt, based on his comment to her. Either way, given that the trade  guide  valuations were 
fairly consistent  and UKI paid Miss A the highest valuation  I dont  think  it was 
unreasonable for UKI to pay Miss A the sum it did.
Miss A thinks the car has an exceptionally  good  engine as it drives  so well. But the valuation  
was based on the cars  age, mileage and general condition. I have no doubt that the car is of 
much more value to Miss A than shes been  paid for it. But her enjoyment of the car doesnt 
increase its overall  monetary worth. 
As I think  UKI acted  reasonably in dealing with Miss As claim, I cant uphold  her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7036695