K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about pension advice he received from a representative of The On-
Line Partnership  Limited (On-Line) in 2013. He says that with better advice he could have 
been entitled to Pension  Credit, a means  tested state benefit.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision.
I said that I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint and explained why.
Essentially, Mr R says that the advice he was given  to take tax free cash from his pension  
meant that he wasnt eligible to claim Pension Credit. I said that the DWP would assess a 
notional income  from his pension pot and this would determine whether he was eligible for 
Pension Credit or not. The advice didnt cause  him to lose out.
On-Line accepted the provisional  decision.
Mr R disagrees.  He has sent correspondence hes received  from the DWP and a letter from 
his pension provider.  The letter from the DWP confirms that it would apply a notional pension 
income when it assessed his eligibility for Pension  Credit, but only from the date it could  be 
expected to be acquired. Mr R points to the letter from his pension  provider which  refers to 
his annuity date in April 2027.  So he says,  in effect, that the notional  income  wouldnt apply 
until 2027.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr R has said but I dont agree. The correspondence  he has provided 
from DWP confirms  that a notional  income  would be applied to the pension  funds he held 
when he applied for pension credit. That is what I had said would happen in my provisional  
decision.
The notional income would be applied regardless of whether he had actually taken an 
income (or a lump sum), providing  an income could have been acquired.
Mr Rs reference to the date in April 2027  as the date he could acquire income is mistaken. 
He was able to take benefits at the time of the advice. He did in fact take benefits by way of 
tax free cash.  He could have taken  an income if he had wished to. The date in 2027  is the 
date he would, according to the regulations applicable at the time, have to annuitize his 
pension. The regulations have changed since  then.
The fact Mr R was advised to take tax free cash would  have  had no impact on whether he 
was entitled to Pension Credit. The pension funds Mr R held would have been assessed by 
the DWP and a notional  income calculated, regardless  of whether he was actually taking a 
pension income.  An income was available  to Mr R at the time of the advice,  and at the time 
he applied  for Pension Credit.
Ref: DRN77515272Mr R may or may not have been entitled  to Pension Credit once the notional income was 
assessed. But thats not really the central issue, the central issue is that the advice he was 
given made  no difference. The fact he took benefits by way of a tax free cash  lump sum, was 
irrelevant to the Pension Credit assessment the DWP would make.
So for these reasons, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77515273complaint
Mr R has complained about  pension advice  he received from a representative of The On-Line 
Partnership Limited (On-Line) in 2013. He says that with better advice he could  have been  entitled to 
Pension Credit, a means tested state benefit.
background
Mr R took advice from On-Line as he had fully retired and had a need for income.  He was 61 years 
old. His wife was slightly  younger and had also retired. Their only income was from pensions Mrs R 
held which were worth  around £3,000 per year.  Their joint outgoings  were  recorded  as £12,000 per 
year, so there was a significant income  shortfall.
Mr R held two personal pensions  worth  around £250,000 in total.
In early 2014, the adviser recommended that Mr R switch these into an income drawdown plan. Mr R 
could then withdraw  tax free cash to assist until he began to receive his state pension. Mr R appears 
to have accepted the advice and he took £30,000 in tax free cash.
In April 2014  Mr R wrote  to the adviser  and said:
Apparently, I can claim Pension Credit  from next month. Sounded very good until they stated that if I 
have a pension I can claim, they will deduct the amount  I could  receive,  effectively leaving me with 
nothing.
There is no evidence  of any response  to this message from the adviser, and in November 2014 Mr R 
cancelled his ongoing advice service.
In March 2019, Mr R complained to the adviser  saying that the advice had caused him to miss out on 
Pension Credit and also meant that he had to pay council  tax. He said this had cost him £25,000 over 
three years.
The complaint wasnt upheld,  On-Line  said that Mr R wouldnt  have been eligible for pension credit 
until he was 65, and the adviser hadnt given any advice  on benefit entitlement.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an adjudicator. He said, in 
summary, that Pension Credit appeared to be linked to retirement age and he wouldnt have  expected 
an adviser to consider any possible entitlement as part of the advice.
Mr R didnt agree. He said the adviser was aware  of the Pension Credit entitlement  as he had raised  it 
in his message of April 2014.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint  but my reasoning is different  to the adjudicator  
and so Ive decided to issue a provisional  decision.
Mr R says that up to 2015, only Capped  Drawdown was available on private pensions, and that 
HMRC didnt base entitlement to Pension Credit on the actual amount  withdrawn from a pension  each 
year, but the assumed amount of the pension  income which was based on the amount of tax-free 
cash already  taken. Based  on this assumption, the tax free cash  he had taken  produced an assumed  
income which meant he wasnt entitled to Pension Credit.
Ref: DRN77515274Mr R says that with proper  advice  he could have adjusted his tax free lump sum and pension income 
so that he could have retained  Pension Credit entitlement. Once he lost this entitlement he also lost 
out on other benefits such  as council tax relief and free NHS dental treatment.
Ive considered what Mr R has said.  The age at which a person became entitled to apply for Pension 
Credit varied, but it wasnt  always the same age as state  retirement  age. On-Line are mistaken  when 
they say that Pension  Credit  would only have been payable when Mr R reached retirement age. In 
fact, given his date of birth, Mr R had potential entitlement from May 2014 and this appears to be the 
date he referred to in his message to the adviser  in April 2014.
The message from April 2014 appears to relate that Mr R had been informed that it was not just the 
amount he had taken from his pension  that would  be relevant to his Pension Credit  entitlement, but 
also the amount he could take.
Mr R hasnt provided evidence of his application to DWP for Pension Credit or evidence of the 
reasons for the benefit  being stopped. DWP has recently  confirmed that it does not retain that 
correspondence. Pension Credit was effectively a gateway benefit  for council  tax relief and he has 
provided a letter confirming that he wasnt  eligible  for council tax relief  and that past payments were  
being reclaimed.
Ive considered Mr Rs explanation of why the tax free cash meant he lost his entitlement  to Pension 
Credit, that is, that it related  to the lump sum he had taken. But Im not familiar with the source of that 
explanation or the formula he refers  to. Pensions Credit is a means tested  benefit  and there are 
principles of deprivation of capital and notional  income  that DWP generally apply when assessing  
entitlement to means  tested benefits like this one. These principles certainly applied  to Pension Credit 
from March 2015 if not before, and set out that once the qualifying age for Pension Credit  was 
reached you would be expected  to use your pension or pensions to help support yourself. 
This meant  that even  if you were not actually taking income from your pension after reaching  the 
qualifying age for Pension Credit, an amount  of notional income will be taken into account when any 
benefit entitlement is worked out. Notional income  would  be an amount  equal to the income that 
would have been received  an annuity had been bought.
The income  Mr R could have  taken from his pension  in 2014, when added to his wifes pension, would 
have taken him above the income limit for Pension Credit  at that time.  And so I dont think he would 
have been entitled to receive it.
Mr R has given differing explanations  of his understanding of the impact of his pension on his Pension 
Credit entitlement. The explanation he gave in April 2014  when  he wrote to the adviser is consistent  
with the DWP principle  of notional income. That meant that the pension  he could have  taken would 
be taken into account and he would not have received  Pension Credit.
But in any event, Im satisfied that from March  2015 it is clear  that Mr Rs potential  pension income 
would have been taken  into account and he would  not have qualified for Pension Credit. 
When Mr R took advice  he had not reached the qualifying age for Pension Credit and he had a need 
for income.  So it seems reasonable that he should  have  taken  benefits from the pensions he held to 
meet that need.
Even if there may have  been entitlement to pension credit from May 2014, and Im not currently 
satisfied that there  was, that entitlement would not have existed beyond  March  2015.
So I dont think the complaint should  be upheld.  Im not satisfied that Mr R would  have been advised  
differently if the adviser had fully considered any possible entitlement to Pension Credit. There was an 
immediate need for cash and that benefit wasnt available  until May 2014, if at all. The potential 
Ref: DRN77515275pension income available to Mr R would  have meant that he didnt qualify for Pension Credit  in my 
view. And in any event, entitlement  to Pension Credit didnt exist beyond  March  2015.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint, but Ill consider any response before making a final decision.
Ref: DRN7751527