K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Bs credit  card account when he applied for the card by post. 
Mr B says nothing was discussed to see if having  PPI was beneficial  for him. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He didnt think Tesco  gave Mr B clear enough 
information about the cost and benefits of the policy. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Bs other means  meant he wouldnt have  thought it offered 
value for money  for him. And that if hed been  given enough clear  information about the 
policy costs and benefits he probably wouldnt have  taken  out the PPI. 
Tesco disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion. So the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
It was up to Tesco to ensure  it gave Mr B good enough information about the PPI so he 
could decide if he wanted to buy the cover to protect his credit  card repayments. Ive decided 
to uphold Mr Bs complaint because I dont think it did this.
I say this because,  in my view, the information Tesco  gave Mr B about the cost and benefits  
of the PPI before he took it out wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. Although  he ticked on 
the application to accept  PPI, there  was no detail provided about the cost or limitations on 
benefits on the form Mr B filled in. And Ive not been  shown that he was given good enough 
information about these things in any other  way.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr B as hes shown us paperwork supporting his 
recollection that he had excellent sickness benefits  through his work  he couldve depended  
on getting good sick pay. 
And if he had to retire  early on medical  grounds  he wouldve been able to claim his pension 
early plus a lump sum. So he wouldve been financially secure in this situation.
As well as this, Mr Bs particular  circumstances  meant he had very limited outgoings. 
And from what hes told us, in my view those circumstances meant  he could also rely on the 
high likelihood  of family financial support to cover  his credit card monthly  repayments  if this 
mightve ever been needed  although looking  at what hes told us I doubt Mr B wouldve 
needed to fall back on that sort of help.   
Ref: DRN76135582So, overall, I think its likely that Mr B wouldve felt that a policy  that paid out for up to 
12 months per accident and sickness claim wouldve had only limited benefit to him if he was 
off work as a result of accident and sickness. 
And although the policy also provided  protection in the event he lost his job unexpectedly 
and was out of work, Mr B was in what I think he reasonably wouldve felt was secure 
employment, where the risk of being made  redundant was very low. I think its likely he 
wouldve expected  to be able to rely on being offered an alternative  job if his existing post 
ever became  redundant. 
So I dont  think Mr B wouldve thought it was worth  paying for the unemployment cover 
either. 
Ive taken into account that Tesco  doesnt  agree that Mr Bs sick pay and other  means would 
generally be considered  sufficient to mean  that he couldnt have benefitted  from having  PPI. 
But in Mr Bs particular  circumstances,  for the reasons Ive explained, on balance  I dont  
think hed have thought the PPI worth the cost if Tesco had set out the policy  cost and 
benefits clearly, so that Mr B could see what hed be getting for his money.  I think his work 
and personal circumstances wouldve given Mr B a feeling of significant financial security 
without PPI. 
So I find that Mr B has lost out as a result of Tescos failings in this case,  because  hes paid 
for a policy I dont think he wouldve taken out if Tesco had given him clear  information  about 
the cost and benefits, as it shouldve done.  This is why Im upholding the complaint.
putting things right
Mr B should  be put back in the position he wouldve  been in now if hed taken out the credit  
card without the PPI policy. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Tesco should find out how much Mr B would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as 
any interest charged on those premiums.  It should also remove  any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those  
charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mr B owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Tesco works out what Mr B would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr B paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Tesco should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr B wouldve  owed  Tesco something  on his credit card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN76135583C.Tesco should tell Mr B what its done to work  out A and B.
D.If Tesco has already  repaid  any commission  amount  to Mr B that relates to this PPI 
sale, as it previously  offered to do, that sum can be deducted by Tesco from the 
redress shown above.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco  must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7613558