K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) failed to investigate and stop a 
leak from his central  heating boiler  which  he reported to BGI under his home emergency 
insurance policy. The leak later worsened  and caused damage to his home.
background
In August  2018  Mr G contacted BGI to arrange  a service for his boiler. He was asked if there 
were any issues with the boiler and said he thought  there was an intermittent leak as on 
occasions he had seen water drop damage to a wicker basket  under the appliance. He 
mentioned he also had to refill periodically the expansion tank for the system.
A BGI engineer arrived as arranged on 3 September 2018. Mr G explained again  about the 
leak. The engineer opened the boiler casing and noted there was rust damage to the bottom  
of the case. He said there must have been a leak but he couldnt see anything at the time of 
the service. He replaced an electrode  gasket, cleaned and tested  it, and left.
Mr G went on holiday on 17 September 2018,  returning on 2 October  2018.  He found that 
during the 14 days he had been  away the boiler  had leaked  and had damaged a section of 
his new kitchen floor. He immediately contacted  BGI.
The engineer it sent said the leak was coming from a bolt on the heat exchanger.  He thought  
that this had been leaking for some time due to the rust damage present. The heat 
exchanger was replaced on 5 October 2018. But a further visit was needed on 10 October 
2018 to change a faulty flow switch.
Mr G complained to BGI. He thought the first BGI engineer should have found the leak on 
the service visit. If he had, and had rectified it then, the damage to his floor wouldnt have 
occurred. He thought BGI should  pay him the cost of rectifying this damage which  he 
estimated at £150.
BGI didnt  accept his complaint. It paid him £30 in recognition that more than one visit was 
needed to complete the change of the heat exchanger. However the engineer who attended  
on 3 September  2018 said there  was no sign of a leak when he was there. And the work  he 
carried out replacing the electrode gasket was unconnected to the heat exchanger leak 
found on 5 October  2018.
BGI pointed  to the following  exclusion  in the policy terms  and conditions:
Any other  loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of property, furniture  or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused 
it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
So it said BGI wouldnt accept responsibility  for the damage caused by the leak.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She accepted Mr Gs 
evidence that when he arranged the first visit he had told BGI that his boiler  had a leak. BGI 
said its first engineer said there was no leak present when he visited.
Ref: DRN71659102However the adjudicator thought that in view of what Mr G had told both BGI and him, the 
first engineer  should have done more  to investigate what was causing the leaking. If he had 
done so, she thought  Mr G wouldnt have suffered damage to his floor. 
Mr G said the first engineer told him rust damage  was present at the bottom of the boiler  
case and there must have  been  a leak. A month later the second  engineer  said the heat 
exchanger needed to be replaced as this was where  the leak was coming from. Due to the 
rust damage  he felt it had been leaking for some time.
The adjudicator thought  BGI was aware of the leak and could  have done  more to prevent the 
damage to Mr Gs floor. She recommended that BGI pay Mr G compensation of £150,  in 
addition to the £30 it had already paid him.
Mr G accepted the adjudicators recommendation. However BGI responded to say, in 
summary, that:
the work  the first engineer carried out was unrelated to the heat exchanger and the 
later leak that was found;
the first engineer  couldnt find a leak in spite of carrying out thorough checks, 
including removing  the casing. This would have included checking  the heat 
exchanger; 
a period of two weeks then passed before Mr G went on holiday, during which  he 
didnt report any leaks; and
when the second engineer attended  on Mr Gs return from holiday he found  a heat 
exchanger leak which  wasnt present on the earlier visit.
So it didnt think it was responsible for Mr Gs damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G told BGI he was experiencing an intermittent leak when he booked  the first visit. He 
told the first engineer  when he came. The first engineer found evidence of leaking at the foot 
of the boiler casing, although the leak didnt seem to be present at the time of the actual visit.
In these circumstances I think, like the adjudicator,  that the first engineer  should have done  
more to investigate  where  the leaking was coming  from.  If he had done so, I think  its more  
likely than not that the fault in the heat exchanger would have been  discovered then, and the 
damage which Mr Gs floor suffered  would  have been avoided.
I think its likely that the actions of the first engineer resulted in the damage to Mr Gs floor.  
So I think its reasonable that BGI should pay Mr G compensation  of £150 for this damage,  
in addition to the £30 it has already paid him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr G compensation of £150 for the damage  to his floor, in addition to the £30 it has already 
paid him.
Ref: DRN71659103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7165910