K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs S complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has acted unfairly in relation 
to a business loan. They ask that the loan is extended for another  five years.
background
Mr M and Mrs S took out a 25 years business loan with RBS in 2007. There  were errors 
which meant interest payments werent  taken correctly. The loan was refinanced  in 2009. 
Mr M and Mrs S say they didnt know the new loan had a shorter term until RBS contacted 
them in late 2018 about repayment.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said it was 
reasonable to expect  Mr M and Mrs S to read the loan agreement. She said the loan 
agreement states  its term  120 months  on the first page.  So Mr M and Mrs S were  made  
aware that it had a 10 year term. Our investigator said she couldnt fairly require RBS to 
waive the terms of the loan agreement.
Our investigator said RBS had asked for information  from Mr M and Mrs S so that it can 
consider alternative  arrangements for repayment  of the loan. While Mr M has explained hed 
like a five year extension  of the loan, its for RBS to decide whether to offer this.
Mr M and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr M said our investigator hadnt taken RBSs prior errors into 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
When Mr M and Mrs S signed the loan agreement in early  2009 they agreed to its terms. I 
think its reasonable to expect Mr M and Mrs S to read the loan agreement before signing it.
I appreciate Mr M and Mrs S had a previous loan with RBS and this had different terms. And 
RBS had made errors in collecting interest  due under the previous loan agreement. But this 
doesnt change  the terms set out in the 2009 loan agreement.  
While Mr M says RBS led them to believe the loan had a 25 year term he hasnt provided 
evidence of this. Mr M provided a letter on which  someone has made a handwritten  note that 
term to remain  as before  ending 2032. But theres no evidence  this was offered or agreed 
by RBS.
The loan agreement, signed  by Mr M and Mrs S, says the repayment date is 120 months 
after the loan was drawn down. As the loan was drawn down in May 2009 the repayment 
date falls in May 2019. The amount of the loan is also set out in the loan agreement. I cant 
see any basis on which I can reasonably say this wasnt what was agreed by Mr M and 
Mrs S when they signed the agreement.
Ref: DRN71234542It seems  Mr M and Mrs S werent able to repay the loan when due in May 2019. Mr M asks 
that the loan is extended  for five years on an interest  only basis.  Its for RBS to decide 
whether to offer this. RBS has said a loan on the terms requested by Mr M wouldnt meet  its 
current lending criteria.  
RBS has asked Mr M and Mrs S for information  and made suggestions about arrangements  
to repay  or refinance the loan. This could  include selling the properties over which RBS has 
security. I understand that Mr M isnt happy  with these  suggestions  and wants  RBS to 
extend the loan instead. But I dont think RBS has treated Mr M and Mrs S unfairly.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require RBS to extend  the loan 
or provide a new loan on the terms requested by Mr M and Mrs S.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7123454