K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  will not refund disputed 
payments made from his account. 
background
In August  2018,  Mr W went abroad. Whilst there, on a night out with friends, his credit card 
was used and paid for three separate transactions  together,  they totalled  about £800.
Halifax sent Mr W a text message asking  him to confirm that he recognised the first 
transactions. A reply was sent confirming the same.  Thereafter,  other transactions were  
processed within minutes of each  other.
Time Event Amount Outcome 
01:49 Payment attempt £214.98Declined by 
Halifax
01:50 Payment attempt £106.76Declined by 
Halifax
01:50SMS sent by Halifax to Mr Ws phone with details 
of payment attempts  requesting confirmation  
that they are genuine
01:51 SMS reply from Mr Ws phone confirming same
01:58 Payment re-attempt £214.98Authenticated by Halifax
01:59 Payment attempt £188.08Authenticated by Halifax
02:00 Payment attempt £382.26Authenticated by Halifax
In the morning, Mr W noticed his phone did not seem right.  He said the passcode which had 
been on the phone to unlock it had been  removed.  And it was only then he noticed the text 
message from Halifax. 
He called Halifax to explain that he did not send the reply to the text message and had not 
made the transactions.
After talking through Mr Ws claim with him, Halifax decided not to refund the transactions.  
They based  this on Mr W telling them that he still had his card,  wallet and phone and nothing  
else was missing. He had had his wallet with him all the times and did not notice anyone 
taking the phone and wallet and then replace  them. Halifax noted  that Mr Ws memory of the 
evening was not clear  and so whilst  he felt strongly that he had not made  the payments, 
Halifax thought  he was mistaken.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  The investigator looking into the complaint 
thought that it was not unreasonable for Halifax to hold him liable for the payments. Overall, 
he thought that whilst it was possible someone  else had done it, he thought  it was more 
likely than not that Mr W had consented  to the payments but had forgotten  doing so.
Mr W asked that an ombudsman  review  his complaint.
Ref: DRN76000252my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator set out previously in his view to Mr W. I will explain why.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ws genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So I also need  to think about  
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr W consented to the 
withdrawals being  made.
Generally, due to regulations governing them, Halifax  are able to hold Mr W liable for 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or 
authorised them. They do not have to be certain.  I appreciate that Mr W feels  strongly that 
he did not make the payments and I am sorry this means that he will be disappointed by my 
decision but I do think it is the fair and reasonable outcome. My reasoning is:
There was no point  at which  Mr W believed he was without his wallet during the 
evening. I accept  that there are people who are able to take wallets  without owners  
noticing but it is risky to take a wallet and then replace it without the owner noticing 
that either.
Likewise, someone would have needed  to take and replace Mr Ws phone without 
him noticing.
Mr W had his wallet with him the next day and from it nothing  was taken, except the 
PIN he had written on a piece  of paper, but including cash  which  he said he had 
taken out with him and the card which was used.
No other  attempt had been made  on any other bankcard  only the card Mr W had 
intended should be used whilst he was abroad.
Theoretically, though, the wallet alone  would have been enough because  Mr W said 
he kept the PIN for the card in the wallet  that would have allowed for a payment to 
be made.
But notification was sent to Mr Ws phone by Halifax. Therefore, someone had to 
obtain the phone too without Mr W noticing.  Further, they had to know  his passcode. 
I appreciate, it is possible for someone to have observed  this but I have  not been 
provided with any evidence to indicate that is what happened here.
I note the first attempted payment was at 01:49 and the second at 01:50. The first 
payment was re-attempted and the second was never re-attempted and was never  
debited from Mr Ws account. This indicates  either the unauthorised user gave up, 
which does not seem likely, or someone else agreed to pay for that amount, which  I 
think more likely.
The first payment was then re-tried at 01:58   almost 10 minutes after the first 
attempt. This would mean  that someone  would have to a) take his phone  quickly  and 
Ref: DRN76000253yet b) hold on to his card, waiting for when  they could try again. This would increase 
the opportunity  for Mr W notice his phone and card were missing. So I do not think  
this is likely.
Whilst not conclusive, I do observe that the payment values also appear 
commensurate with having an evening out with friends yet are still well under  half of 
the credit  limit. If this was an opportunistic fraud,  the amounts may well have  
exceeded these.
I appreciate that Mr Ws recollection is chequered but having given consideration to the 
available evidence, overall, I think it is more likely than not that Mr W did authorise these 
payments albeit his memory of doing so is unclear.
my final decision
As a result of my findings, I do not uphold this complaint  and I do not require  Bank of 
Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7600025