K820x#14complaint
Mr K says British Credit Trust Holdings Ltd (who Ill refer to as BCTH) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (or PPI)  policy.
background
In 2008, Mr K took out a PPI policy with BCTH to cover a hire purchase agreement. Mr K 
paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which  didnt attract interest. It covered  his 
payments in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ks PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr K said he felt he had to take out PPI in order to receive the goods  or get approved  for the 
loan. But Mr K had already been  approved for his loan  and his loan had even started  by 
the time BCTH phoned him to sell PPI. And BCTH were a different company to the one he 
collected the goods from. 
From what  Ive seen of BCTHs sales process, it looks like they wouldve described the PPI 
as optional, and as a separate cost from the agreement  rather  than something that was 
necessarily included. And it looks like they wouldve asked Mr K whether hed like PPI or not 
and only set it up with his permission. I can see that after the phone call, Mr K was sent a 
welcome letter that thanked him for choosing PPI, along with a record of the conversation.  
The record  says BCTH recommended PPI for Mr K  this was only a recommendation, not a 
requirement. It reiterated that the policy was optional, and it says that Mr K accepted the 
recommendation.
Overall, I think its most likely that Mr K was aware he had a choice  about  buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer remembers  
doing so after so long.
BCTH recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr K doesnt  
seem to have been affected by any of the policys key exclusions or limitations. While he had 
some sick pay through work, the PPI covered him for longer and paid out on top. And it 
doesnt look like Mr K had any other  cover  in case he lost his job. I understand that his 
partner wouldve been willing to help, but this agreement  was Mr Ks sole responsibility, and 
there was always the chance his partner would be unable to help when needed. Further, the 
PPI meant that Mr K wouldnt have to ask his partner  to cover these payments if he fell on 
difficult times, so they could use their money for other living costs.
Ref: DRN77384512From the record of the phone call and Mr Ks recollections, it looks  like BCTH explained what 
the policy cost when they sold it. So I think Mr K wouldve understood how much he would 
need to pay for it.
Lastly, its possible that BCTH didnt point out the main things the policy  wouldnt cover. But 
as I said above,  Mr K doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of those things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7738451