K820x#14Complaint
Mr R and Miss R complaint that Advantage Insurance  Company Limited  unfairly cancelled 
their motor insurance policy. Reference  to Advantage includes its agents.
Background
Mr R and Miss R bought a telematics insurance  policy online on 16 August. The policy 
started the following day. Shortly  after purchasing the policy, Mr R and Miss R went on 
holiday for a week.
On their return, they say they received a call on 27 August letting them  know  the telematics  
box would  be delivered the following day  which it was. Mr R and Miss R say they were  told 
the box needed to be installed by the 7 September or the policy  would be cancelled.
Mr R said when he came  to install  the box on 7 September,  he checked his emails  to find the 
policy had already been cancelled. Unhappy with this, he complained  to Advantage.
Advantage said it made it clear that the telematics  box needed to be installed within  14 days 
or purchasing the policy. It said the call Mr R received on 27 August wasnt recorded so it 
couldnt listen to what was said. But it said the purpose of that call wasnt to give a date the 
box needed to be installed by  it was to let Mr R and Miss R know when the box would be 
delivered. It said it doesnt think Mr R was told the box needed to be installed by 
7 September.  Advantage said in any case, it sent Mr R an email on 30 August explaining it 
would cancel the policy on 6 September if the box wasnt installed.
Mr R and Miss R werent happy,  so they brought their complaint to us. Mr R said he received 
the email on 30 August  explaining the cancellation,  but said he hadnt  read it. He said he 
should have been entitled to rely on the information given on the call on 27 August letting 
them know  the box needed to be installed by 7 September.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld.  They  said 
Advantage had made it clear in the welcome  pack that the box needed to be installed within  
14 days. They didnt  know what was discussed  during  the call on 27 August, but thought it 
was reasonable  Advantage  relied on the email  it sent Mr R on 30 August.
Mr R and Miss R disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Mr R and Miss R took out a telematics policy. By taking out this policy,  they agreed to let 
Advantage monitor their driving behaviour. The terms and conditions of the policy said a 
telematics box needed to be installed within 14 days of purchasing  the policy or the policy  
will be cancelled.  This is clear  in both the policy  documents  and the welcome pack  Mr R was 
sent on 16 August.  This would mean the box needed to be installed by 30 August.
Ref: DRN70045212The welcome pack explains that the box will be delivered within seven days. But I 
understand that as Mr R and Miss R were  away  on holiday for about a week  from the 
18 August, the box was delivered on 28 August.
The call Mr R received on 27 August wasnt recorded, so Im unable  to say for certain  what  
was discussed.  Mr R said he was told information  about when the box would be delivered  
and that it needed to be installed  by 7 September. Advantage  on the other  hand  has said the 
call was to confirm delivery of the box, but that the caller wouldnt have given information on 
what date the box needed to be installed by.
Ive no reason to doubt either  Mr Rs or Advantages version of events. But on balance, I 
think its unlikely the call handler told Mr R the date the box needed  to be installed by. I say 
this because Im satisfied that call was from one of Advantages agents responsible for the 
telematics box itself, not the policy. So I think its unlikely  theyd  have known when the policy  
started, and when  the box needed  to be installed by.
In any case, Im satisfied  Advantage  did enough  to let Mr R and Miss R know  when the 
policy would be cancelled,  and Im satisfied it acted reasonably  and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy by cancelling  it when it did. Even if Mr R was told he needed to 
install the box by the 7 September,  Advantage would  have  been  acting reasonably  by 
cancelling it at any time on 7 September if the box wasnt  installed by that date.
On 30 August, The box still hadnt  been  fitted,  so Advantage let Mr R and Miss R know  in 
writing that it would be cancelling the policy in seven days. Ive seen  this email and Im 
satisfied it was sent. Within this email its clear that Advantage will cancel the policy   the 
emails title is cancelling your policy -  at 23.59  on 6 September if the telematics box isnt 
installed by that date.
Importantly, this email was sent after the call Mr R had with Advantage on 27 August. I 
understand Mr R said he received this email but didnt read it or overlooked it. But the test I 
need to apply is on the sending of this email, and as mentioned  above, Im satisfied it was 
sent. I cant reasonably  hold Advantage responsible  for Mr R not reading it as it was clear 
from the title of the email what it was about.
I understand Mr R thinks Advantage should  have  called him to let him know  the policy would 
be cancelled, and I understand why this would be helpful for him. But this isnt something 
Advantage has to do. It needs to give Mr R and Miss R seven days notice in writing, and it 
did that.
On 7 September, Advantage checked  to see if the box was installed, and as it wasnt  it 
cancelled the policy and let Mr R and Miss R know in writing,  as its required to do.
Im satisfied Advantage treated  Mr R and Miss R fairly here. It made it clear the box needed 
to be installed within 14 days of purchasing the policy,  but it didnt cancel it until 21 days 
after purchase taking  into account Mr R and Miss Rs holiday. And it informed them  in writing 
of the intention to cancel,  and the actual cancellation of the policy.
Ref: DRN70045213My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7004521