K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link Financial) added a 
default to his credit file later than they should have.
background
Mr W is unhappy because he says Link Financial  added a default  to his credit  file almost  
15 months after taking  over a debt from another business (B1). Mr W says that this default 
has stopped him applying  for credit and obtaining a mortgage. 
Mr W complained  to Link Financial. They didnt uphold his complaint and Mr W referred his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator found that:
its not the role of our service to comment on whether a debt is statute  barred  as 
thats a matter for a court of law;
the account was already in default before Link Financial  purchased  it from B1, after a 
default notice  had been issued in 2011; 
the default was applied  3 months after it should  reasonably have been added. The 
result being that it remained  on Mr Ws credit file until May 2019 instead of being  
removed 3 months earlier if things had happened  as they should have, and
Link Financial should pay Mr W £100  for the mistake.
Our investigator gave  Mr W the opportunity to provide evidence  that he was declined  credit 
for buying a property during the period where  the default remained on his credit  file for 3 
months later than it should have been.  Link Financial were also given  an opportunity to 
provide evidence as to why the default  wasnt applied  sooner. 
Neither party provided the further evidence and Link Financial didnt respond to the 
investigators view - so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Link Financial didnt  respond to the investigators view. So its not clear  which  - if any, of the 
findings made by the investigator  that they disagree with.
Ive considered the complaint afresh but have reached the same overall outcome that our 
investigator reached. Ill explain  why below.
What was the correct  date for the default to be added?
Mr W believes the default date was 20 February 2012. All the evidence Ive seen points to 
the default date being  in May 2013. I say this because Ive seen copies of various  pieces of 
correspondence between  Link Financial and Mr W. For example, a copy  of a letter  dated  7 
May 2013 headed; Default Notice served  under section 87 (1) of the Consumer Credit act 
1974 and; 
Ref: DRN72021482We are required by law to send  this notice to you before we can take action to recover the balance 
outstanding on your account. You are in breach of the payments clause of your agreement which 
provides that you must  make at least the minimum  payment each month when due. You have failed to 
make the payments when due and your breach has resulted in arrears of.
The letter also states .If you fail to make the necessary payment we will tell the Credit 
Reference Agencies of your default  which will be entered on your credit record.  This may 
make it difficult  for you to obtain further credit.  
A further  letter was sent on 27 May 2013 giving a notice and demand of payment within  
7 days. As the default was then added to Mr Ws credit file, it seems  reasonable to assume 
that he didnt make payment in time.
Although Mr W thinks the default  was added in February 2102, this was actually the date 
that the pre default status was added.  
Based on our established approach to these types  of complaints, taking into consideration 
everything, in particular  the Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO),  wed usually say that 
when a customer is at least  three  months behind on their payments, a default may be 
registered. Normally the default should  be registered  before  a customer  falls six months 
behind with their payments.  
It seems  that Mr Ws last payment  was made  in August 2012  and the default wasnt  applied 
until more than six months afterwards. So I dont think  that Link Financial  did what  they 
should have done. For this, Link Financial  should  pay Mr W £100 compensation for their 
error.
Based on everything  Ive seen, there  was only one default notice registered  in May 2013. 
The process that brought this about was first started in 2011  but the actual default wasnt  
registered until 2013. 
What should have happened?
The default  should have been added three  months earlier than it was added.  Link Financial 
hasnt provided  a reasonable explanation for their error. 
Has Mr W lost out as a result?
Although Mr W has said that having the default registered later than it should  have  been  
resulted in him not getting credit for buying  a property, Ive not seen supporting  evidence  that 
this is correct. Ive also noted that Mr W was given another opportunity  after our 
investigators first assessment to provide evidence - but he hasnt done so. 
So I cant fairly say that Mr W has lost out as a result and aside from paying Mr W £100,
I dont require Link Financial to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited  
should now make  payment of £100 to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Ref: DRN72021483Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7202148