K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from Go 
Car Credit Limited (GCC).
background
In January 2017 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered  into a finance agreement with 
GCC. It was a condition  of the agreement that a payment reminder device  was fitted to the 
car.
Miss B says she experienced problems with the car from the point of supply. She says the 
car wasnt performing  as well as it should be and a light was illuminated with a fault code. In 
April 2017 Miss B had the car serviced but the fault code remained illuminated.
Miss B contacted GCC in July 2017  and reported the issue.  GCC says it raised a complaint  
but was unable to get a response from Miss B so subsequently closed it.
Miss B contacted GCC again in June  2018  and reported a fault with the payment reminder 
device. She provided  a report  from an independent garage which said that an O2 sensor  
fault code was stored in the ECU which had been  traced to a broken wire.
GCC reviewed  the report but refused to pay for repairs. It said Miss B had covered 
approximately 18,000 miles in the 18 months  shed  had the car which showed shed been 
able to use the car. It also said that although Miss B had raised a complaint in July 2017, 
shed failed to respond to calls and emails  and had deprived the business of the opportunity 
to repair  the fault at that time. GCC also said the car had passed  an MOT in October 2017 
which suggested that the fault code wasnt illuminated at that time.
Miss B wasnt happy with GCCs response  so she complained to this service.
More recently in October 2018, the engine management light illuminated. Miss B took the car 
to a garage that inspected the car and diagnosed broken wires in the wiring  loom which  were  
causing the O2 sensor fault code.  Miss Bs car was due for an MOT  and she needed to use 
it so she paid the garage to repair the wires.
Miss B wants reimbursement of her repair  costs  together  with the costs of the first diagnostic 
report she obtained.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the reports showed that the fault code  
related to the broken  wires and that it was more likely than not the wires were damaged 
when the payment reminder device was fitted  to the car. The investigator recommended  that 
GCC refunded Miss B the cost of repairs and the cost of the diagnostic report.
GCC didnt agree. It said Miss B hadnt  reported ongoing faults since  July 2017  and 
questioned how that car could have passed  an MOT  in October 2017 if a fault code was 
illuminated. GCC also said that the repair  invoice  didnt say that the payment reminder 
device was the cause of the fault or that the fault wouldve been present  at the point  of 
supply.
Ref: DRN72150112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because GCC has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of a satisfactory quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general wear  
and tear.
Miss B says she experienced issues with the car from the point of supply. She says a fault 
light was illuminated  and there were also performance issues.  Miss B first contacted GCC 
just outside of the first 6 months  from the point  of supply. At this time she provided a 
diagnostic report which said that the fault code was linked to a broken wire.
Miss B reported the same issues to GCC several months later in June 2018. This is 
consistent with the diagnostic  report dated  July 2017. The June 2018 report  concluded that 
the fault code  was caused by a broken  wire, which is again consistent with the earlier 
diagnostic.
The latest report is more  detailed than the first diagnostic report. It identified  5 broken wires 
in the wiring loom  which were causing the sensor  fault code to illuminate. The inspection 
also identified additional wiring to the black box which was described as badly  wired.  The 
repairs to the broken  wires  have resolved the issues which  Miss B was experiencing with the 
car.
Miss B has also provided a photo of the wiring loom,  which  clearly  shows  a number of 
damaged wires.
Based on the latest report and the photo,  Im satisfied that there was broken wiring which 
was causing the sensor  fault.
I need to decide whether the broken  wiring  was present at the point of supply. The extent of 
the broken wiring suggests to me that it was more likely to have been damaged by cutting 
(rather than deterioration due to wear and tear). Although  Miss B had the car serviced in 
April 2017, theres no information to suggest  that she had any work carried  out to the car 
then (or at any other time since the point of supply) which  would have involved cutting the 
wires.
The payment reminder device was fitted  to the car at the point of supply. My understanding, 
based on research  Ive conducted, is that the payment  reminder device is fitted by 
connecting wires to the wiring loom. Because the PassTime device is connected to the 
wiring loom, and because the broken  wiring  is in the wiring loom, it seems more  likely than 
not that the wires were cut or damaged when the PassTime device was fitted. I dont  think  
its the payment  reminder device itself which is causing the issues but I am satisfied that in 
the course of fitting the payment reminder device the wires on Miss Bs car have been  cut 
when they shouldnt have been and the damage to those wires has caused the issues  with 
the car including  the fault code.
Ref: DRN72150113Ive taken account of the point which GCC has made about the car passing  an MOT. But 
based on the available information, it appears  that the fault code was intermittent so its 
possible that it wasnt illuminated when the car went in for MOT.
Ive also taken account of the point which GCC has made about whether the fault was 
caused by the wiring.  Whilst  I accept that the report doesnt make a direct link between the 
damaged wiring and the performance issues with the car, it does  seem  to be the case  that 
the repairs to the damaged wiring have  resolved  the issues.  On balance Im satisfied that the 
damaged wiring was the cause of the fault with the car.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im of the view that the wires in Miss Bs 
car were damaged  when the payment reminder  device was fitted. Im also satisfied that the 
damaged wires have caused  the fault code and other issues with the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Go Car Credit Limited should:
Reimburse Miss B for the cost of the first diagnostic report  (£88)
Reimburse Miss B for the cost of repairs to the wiring  (£336.07).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7215011