K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the premiums  charged to them on their home  insurance  with 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc.
background 
Mr and Mrs H took out home  insurance  through their building society when they applied for a 
mortgage in 2002. Over  the years  the premium  steadily increased but Mr and Mrs H didnt 
feel they needed to query  it as they had a high degree of trust in and loyalty to their building  
society to treat them fairly.
In late 2015, just before the renewal  was due, they were  contacted by their building society  
who offered them a policy with RSA for about a quarter of what  theyd been quoted for their 
2016 renewal.  They  took out the new policy but then complained  that theyd been 
overcharged the premium for their policy over the years. In particular, they said their renewal 
documents never gave the figure for the annual premium. And until the letter for the 2016 
renewal, theyd not been told of any likelihood that it had cheaper  products available. RSAs  
response was that the premium had been  set correctly, that it sent out renewal invitations  
each year and that it was up to the policyholder to shop around if they werent  happy  with the 
terms offered.
Mr and Mrs H referred  their complaint  to this service. As RSA is responsible  for setting the 
premium, its appropriate  that the complaint is considered against  it, rather  than the building  
society. Our adjudicator reviewed the matter and proposed to RSA that it consider  reviewing  
its position, taking  into account that a very much cheaper product was available through 
RSA. She thought  the increases should be capped  from 2008 onwards and RSA should  
refund the difference.
RSA proposed a settlement of £3,262 including interest. Our adjudicator  put that offer to 
Mr and Mrs H and explained that, although  RSA had calculated the increase slightly  
differently to what shed  recommended,  it was in line with the sort of figure wed had in mind. 
She recommended that they accept  the proposed award.
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with the proposed  award. They  had researched the market 
themselves and thought that they had been overcharged their premiums  when much lower 
rates were  available  and they hadnt been  informed of them.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the price  they were charged for their insurance  and that their 
building society offered another policy underwritten by RSA which was much cheaper. I can 
understand why they were upset to find this out.
When a customer doesnt engage over a number of years with their insurer  at renewal, 
something that is often  described as consumer inertia, theres the possibility that they can 
Ref: DRN79423112end up being treated  unfairly. Such customers can be potentially vulnerable to paying much  
more for their insurance  than other customers who are less trusting of, and loyal to, the 
relevant brand  here the building society. 
Mr and Mrs H received  renewal notices each year but it wasnt until the letter  for the 2016 
renewal that they were  advised that cheaper products might be available. Mr and Mrs H 
point out that they werent quoted the overall annual premium in each renewal notice. Thats  
true, although they were told the monthly  repayment  amount. I can understand that they felt 
they owed a loyalty to their building society and didnt question the premium until they were 
told by an adviser at the building  society that there was a cheaper  product available.
In the circumstances of this case,  I do think that more  could  have been  done here by RSA to 
treat Mr and Mrs H fairly.  And its fair to look at capping the increases from the 2008 
renewal. From that time, rather  than continuing to increase  the price  and relying on auto-
renewal, in order to have  treated Mr and Mrs H fairly, I think  that RSA and/or the building  
society should have  made a greater effort to ensure that Mr and Mrs H were  engaged in the 
renewal process.. 
Our adjudicator has already set out to Mr and Mrs H what that means  a refund of total 
increases of around £1,200. And as the new product was available from 2014,  they should  
have to pay no more  than that cost.  As that product had an introductory discount,  she 
thought that they should have  been  charged  no more  than about £500 for the 2014 and 
2015 renewals.  That amounts to a refund  of a further £1,195. 
As RSA has already  offered  more than that total figure, I think its offer is fair. To put it 
another way, with the refund RSA has calculated, Mr and Mrs H would have paid about £555  
for each  policy  year from 2008 to 2015 inclusive.
I know Mr and Mrs H feel they are entitled  to more.  Our adjudicator has already explained  to 
them why it wouldnt be fair to compare the price to the lowest rates  available to new 
customers. Thats because they wouldve had introductory discounts, which  are often quite 
substantial. So the insurer couldnt  economically provide the policy  at that price  for a 
customers entire length of tenure. Insurance premiums have also become much  more 
competitive in recent years.  So thats why I think it fair to look at the alternative prices  for the 
more recent  years only. 
So, overall, I think the award proposed  by RSA amounts to fair compensation. 
my final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs H of £3,262.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79423113As the compensation award  includes interest,  if Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs H 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7942311