K820x#14complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Cavere Ltd as a broker registered her home  insurance  under the 
wrong address  and is concerned any claim wouldnt have been paid.
background
Mrs Ks policy was first dealt with by Cavere in 2015. At that time it mistakenly  registered  the 
policy with the wrong  address. Mrs K didnt receive any renewal documents and only 
realised a mistake had been  made  when one of her neighbours brought  a letter  round. She 
complained to Cavere who agreed  it had been  an administrative error. She was concerned 
that if shed made a claim she wouldnt have been  insured.  Cavere assured her that wasnt 
the case and got confirmation from the insurer that it would have honoured any claim.
Mrs K was still unhappy and referred  her complaint to this service. Our investigator reviewed 
it and advised  Mrs K that Cavere had put the matter  right and that shed suffered no 
prejudice, as any claim would be met. Mrs K felt that she should have compensation.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ks concerns that she wouldnt have been covered if she had made 
any claim on her policy. However Cavere  has confirmed, having spoken to the insurer that 
any claim would have  been met, as it was a purely  administrative  error..
Mrs K seeks  the return of her premiums and/or financial  compensation. As its been 
confirmed that her property was fully insured the return of any premiums wouldnt be 
appropriate. Whist Mrs K doubts that any claim would have been paid, I think  it unlikely that 
there would have been a problem. If premiums were  returned the policy  would be cancelled 
for the three  years it had the wrong  address registered. I think that would cause problems for 
Mrs K, rather than resolve them.
As for compensation,  this service exists to resolve  informally any disputes between 
consumers and businesses. I think the problem has been dealt with here at minimal  
inconvenience to Mrs K. No claim had to be made,  and I cant reasonably  award 
compensation for what might have happened, but didnt.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7573767