K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that A Shade Greener  (Boilers)  LLP terminated his conditional sale 
agreement in relation to a boiler.  He also complains that the boiler  was defective.
background
Mr C owns a property in which a boiler  was installed in 2012. The boiler and installation were 
financed under a conditional sale agreement (the agreement) with A Shade Greener 
(ASG).
Mr C is represented in this complaint by Miss L, who now occupies the property as his 
tenant. But at the time the boiler  was installed, the property was owned and occupied  by 
Miss Ls mother, who was the original party to the agreement. Miss L had her mothers  
authority to deal with the account  for her. In 2016, Mr C bought  the property, and ASG 
executed a new credit agreement  with him, on substantially the same  terms as the original. 
(I have noted that the new agreement is dated  2012, but this appears to be a mistake,  and it 
is common ground between the parties  that Mr C bought the property and took over the 
agreement in 2016.)
It was a term of the agreement that ASG had to service the boiler  every  year,  for free. The 
agreement also said that the customer had to allow ASG  to do this, or else ASG  could 
terminate the agreement,  in which event all sums  payable under the agreement would 
immediately fall due. ASG invoked that clause in 2019, because the boiler was not serviced 
in that year.  Mr C complains that this was not his fault, and that ASG deliberately failed to 
service the boiler  and then covered its tracks,  in order  to justify terminating  the agreement. 
There is a dispute  about whether a service  was ever booked: Mr C says it was, and ASG 
denies it. ASG says that it had persistently chased Mr C with letters, emails  and text 
messages, to remind him to book the annual service, and it had not heard back from him. He 
had therefore  breached  the agreement. Consequently, he has had to pay ASG around  
£3,000.
Mr C also complains that the boiler didnt work  properly, and that this had resulted in 
Miss Ls mother being left without heat for about  six months while she was still living  there, in 
2018. Miss L herself has also complained  that ASG would not deal with her when she tried 
to book a service, and she complains  about  the security  questions ASG asked her when  she 
phoned, such as asking her for the make  and model  of the boiler.
ASG said that Miss L had not had Mr Cs written authority  to act on his behalf until very late, 
and then when  ASG had tried to contact her, it had been unable  to. Until then, ASG had not 
been able to accept her instructions to book a service. ASG also argued that as Miss Ls 
mother was not a party to this complaint, anything that had happened  before Mr C bought 
the property was outside the scope of this complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She restricted  the scope of this complaint to 
ASGs decision to terminate the agreement, and the events  which  had led up to that. She 
said ASG had provided evidence of its repeated efforts to contact Mr C, and that it did not 
appear to have received any response  to its correspondence. Neither party  had any record 
of the phone call in which Mr C said he had booked a service, or any other evidence of such  
a booking. So she concluded that ASG  had acted reasonably.
Miss L asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
Ref: DRN70123992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will 
explain why, but first I will deal with the scope of this complaint  that is, which  issues I have  
considered, and which I have not.
the scope of this complaint
Miss Ls mother is not a party to this complaint. Neither is Miss L, who is not and has never  
been the account holder,  and who acts only in the capacity  of Mr Cs representative.  So 
under our rules, Mr C is the only complainant in this case. For that reason,  I have not 
considered anything which happened before March 2016.
That does not prevent  me from considering whether ASG sold Mr C a defective boiler when 
it entered a new credit  agreement with him, so I could still consider his complaint about  the 
boiler not working in 2018. However,  I have chosen  not to do so, for four reasons. Firstly, the 
person who was mainly  affected by that problem was Miss Ls mother. If I only dealt with this 
matter as Mr Cs complaint, and his alone, then I would not be able to award him 
compensation for his tenants discomfort and inconvenience,  because  I can only require 
ASG to compensate  Mr C for his own inconvenience. Secondly,  Miss Ls mother  could still 
bring a new complaint about the same matter, since she would be eligible to complain if she 
alleged that the boiler  was defective when it was sold to her in 2012. It would not be fair to 
ASG for us to consider  the same matter twice  in two complaints, and it would probably seem 
unfair to the complainant if we dismissed  her complaint without considering  it, on the ground 
that we had already considered it without her involvement. Thirdly,  Miss L has told us that 
our Service  actually has already considered that same issue before. I cannot find any record 
of that in our records (probably  because the file has been archived), so it is not clear to me 
to what extent we have considered it, but I would  usually consider it unfair to the respondent 
for us to revisit the same  issue  a second  time. Fourthly, because  it appears that the 
investigation of this complaint by our investigator  and by ASG has not covered that issue, 
and this case is now two and a half years old. It could be dragged  out for several more 
months while both parties instruct  experts to examine the boiler. So rather than requiring that 
to happen as part of this case, and asking Miss Ls mother to join this case as another  
complainant at this stage,  I think it is better  that I conclude  this case by resolving the other 
issues now, and leaving any complaint about the state of the boiler, and about whether ASG  
breached its obligation to repair it, to be raised by both eligible (or potentially  eligible)  
complainants as a separate complaint.
Also, since  Miss L is not eligible to complain in her own right,  since she has never  been  a 
party to either agreement,  I cannot  entertain her complaint  about  the security  questions ASG 
asked her when she phoned  it.
For these reasons, in this decision  I will only be dealing with the matters on which  my 
colleague has already issued her opinion: the termination of the agreement, and related 
matters.
the termination  of the credit agreement
I have read Mr Cs agreement, and verified  that the boiler had to be serviced annually,  and 
that otherwise  ASG  would  be entitled to terminate the agreement,  and to demand immediate 
Ref: DRN70123993payment of all sums payable under  the agreement. So it only remains  for me to decide 
whether it was ASGs  fault it was that the boiler was not serviced in 2019.  If that was, then 
I would not consider it fair and reasonable to conclude  that ASG  was entitled to terminate the 
agreement. And if it was not, then I would  conclude that ASG  acted reasonably.
In considering that point, I will also deal with ASGs refusal to deal with Miss L, on Mr Cs 
behalf, until he had provided ASG with written authority for her to do so.
I have been told, and I accept, that Miss L had been  authorised by her mother to deal with 
ASG on her behalf. That authority ended when her mother ceased to be a party  to the 
agreement and Mr C took over.  I can see how Miss L might not have appreciated that at the 
time, since she must have  grown accustomed to dealing with ASG by then, and she lived on 
the premises as Mr Cs tenant (he lived elsewhere). However, she was not ASGs customer, 
and so ASG was not able to deal with her until it was satisfied that it had Mr Cs authority to 
take instructions  from her. I dont  think  it was unreasonable  of ASG to ask Mr C to fill in and 
return a form for this purpose, and this was not done  until the last minute.
Meanwhile, starting in November 2018,  ASG began  writing  letters  to Mr C, asking him to 
arrange a time for its engineers to visit the property and service  the boiler.  These letters 
were all addressed to the property where the boiler was, which  was the address on Mr Cs 
credit agreement. He didnt live there, but since that was the address on the agreement  
I think it was reasonable  of ASG to write to that address.
ASG wrote further letters in December and January, warning him that his warranty  would be 
voided if the boiler was not serviced  within a year of the last service  (in the previous  
January). On 1 February 2019, ASG wrote a letter telling him that it had not heard from him, 
and saying that by not allowing ASG to service  the boiler, he was in breach  of the 
agreement. ASG concluded by saying that if it did not hear from him in the next seven days,  
it would  invoice him for all sums  due.
At the same time as sending these letters, ASG was also sending emails  to the same effect, 
to Mr Cs email  address. So even if his tenant  was not forwarding the letters to him, its likely  
that he was receiving the emails. So Im satisfied that ASG took reasonable steps  to remind  
him of the need to service  the boiler,  and of the consequences if he did not arrange for this 
to happen. The tone of the emails became increasingly urgent over time.
On 14 January 2019, ASG emailed Mr C to tell him that it could not communicate  with Miss L 
about his account unless  he filled in its third party access  form. I think  that email was clear. 
He must have responded to it, because  in an email dated 31 January, ASG  said that it had 
updated his account to give Miss L access as a third party. It went  on to say that ASG had 
tried to contact her, but without success.  Another  email of the same  date, 31 January, said 
that the anniversary of the last service had passed,  and that ASG had not heard from Mr C, 
and that he was in breach of the agreement. It said that unless Mr C replied within seven 
days, he would be invoiced  for all sums due. It sent reminders by email on 2 and 3 February.
Miss L says that she phoned ASG on 2 February  2019, within  the seven day deadline, to 
arrange a service, and that therefore ASG  should  not have terminated the agreement. In 
support of that claim,  she provided an email Mr C had sent to ASG on 8 February,  in which  
he mentioned her phone  call on the 2nd. ASG says it can find no record of that phone call, 
and no record of any booking. Miss L says ASG  must be lying. However, she has not been 
able to provide  any evidence  of that call, other  than Mr Cs email.
Ref: DRN70123994I have read the email.  It says that Miss L had made a phone call on 2 February, and during 
the call a service visit had been arranged for 27 March, some  two months after the 
anniversary of the last visit. ASG denies that a service  was arranged for that date, as it says 
that no engineers  would have been available in Mr Cs area then, and it points to the 
reminder email it sent Mr C on 3 February as evidence that suggests that no such  visit had 
been booked.
ASG also sent text messages to Mr Cs phone on 3 and 8 February,  one to tell him to book a 
service, and the other to say he was in breach of the agreement and would now be invoiced.
I cannot verify whether engineers would have been available  in Mr Cs area on 27 March.  
But I think the point  about more reminders being  sent after 2 February is persuasive.
I think that the weight  of the evidence supports ASGs account of events. ASG  has 
demonstrated a history of non-contact by Mr C between November 2018 and January 2019, 
after it had sent him numerous reminders.  There is no evidence  that he did anything in that 
three month period except  authorise  Miss L to speak to ASG  on his behalf, which  he did just 
as time was about  to run out. The evidence that Miss L, once she was authorised to speak 
for him, did so on 2 February is weak, since it amounts to no more than an email which  she 
herself wrote a week after that date, and is not corroborated by any other evidence. Indeed, 
it is contradicted by the subsequent messages to Mr C on 3 and 8 February, by email and by 
text message. Not only do I think it is unlikely  that those reminders would  have been  sent if a 
service had already  been booked, but if a service  really had been booked  then I would have 
expected Mr C to question those reminders,  and he did not.
Miss L has offered  to ask her mobile  phone company to search its records  for the call. But as 
she has known since ASGs letter dated  26 February 2019 that ASG disputed  that a service 
had ever been booked, I think she could have done that already, and Im not going  to wait.
On the balance of probabilities, I think it is more likely than not that no service  was booked, 
and that no meaningful engagement was made by Mr C with ASG until it was too late. I find 
that ASG was entitled to terminate the agreement and demand full payment of all sums 
which were due under it. I dont  think ASG was able to book a service  with Miss L until Mr C 
had authorised it to do so, which did not occur until the end of January.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
(I have not considered whether the boiler  was defective when ASG sold it in 2012  or 2016, 
or anything  which happened  before March 2016, or whether  ASG  breached  its obligation to 
repair the boiler in 2017  or 2018.)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, or Miss L on 
his behalf, to accept or reject my decision before  29 August 2021.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7012399