K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited 
(NFU) unreasonably  increased his premium for the pet insurance for one of his dogs under 
his Home and Lifestyle policy in 2018.
background
Mr S believed NFU had failed to correctly review the reserve  and his loss history.  He also 
believed it failed to review the fact he had two cars insured with them  plus had a life policy.  
And that it failed to notify him of the full terms of its renewal offer. This meant he was 
unaware of the loading  it had imposed, which he believed invalidated any alternative  cover 
he might  have tried to obtain  from another provider. 
Lastly, when he initially queried the renewal premium, it was reduced slightly.  But despite the 
fact he had held this policy for over 10 years, he was left having  to delete the loss of the pet 
cover for one of his dogs at the time when  that dog was nearing the end of his life, despite 
having paid for this specific cover for many years.
He was also dissatisfied with NFUs response to his complaint, so he brought  his complaint  
to us.
The adjudicator didnt think NFU had done  anything wrong. Mr S disagreed and his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Im aware of Mr Ss previous occupation  and experience but as our decisions  are published I 
wont allude  to this here in order to ensure his anonymity is protected.
However, as the adjudicator explained this service doesnt tell insurers  how to run their 
business or what amount of premium to charge their customers as were  not the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  is. Our remit and mine  in particular, is to see if NFU 
did anything wrong  and if it did, then decide how it should put things right.
First, let me say, there is no requirement for Mr S or indeed  any other customer  to know 
what loading  was put on a previous policy or its premium, when applying for a new policy 
elsewhere. That is not the sort of information any insurer is required to give its customers 
when inviting them to renew their policy. And further,  its not information  that any insurer 
asks of any applicant  when theyre  applying  for a policy.  That sort of information is 
commercially sensitive  and therefore  isnt required to be put in the public  domain  in this way, 
as Mr S believes.
As the adjudicator explained,  every  insurer is entitled to decide for itself what premium it 
wishes its customers to pay for each risk to be insured. Obviously, every insurer  would wish 
to be competitive in order to attract  business but its up to each insurer to decide  the risks it 
wants to cover and for what price,  subject to the overall regulation  of the FCA. Its also up to 
Ref: DRN75047202any insurer, including NFU whether it wants to reward loyalty  in any given situation. That 
isnt something this service nor I can adjudicate on.
And as the adjudicator explained, our role to see if Mr S was treated fairly and the same as 
other customer in his situation and not singled out. Given the information that NFU gave us, 
(which as its commercially sensitive, Im not permitted to share  it with Mr S, even more so 
since our decisions are published), theres  no evidence that the NFU has miscalculated  Mr 
Ss renewal premium. This is because it has shown it adhered to its own internal guidelines 
and it was based on the claims  experience  of the dog at issue  the previous year. So theres 
no evidence Mr R was treated differently.  Theres also no evidence that it was based on an 
incorrect claims reserve. Indeed in calculating the premium  on the actual claims cost for Mr 
Ss dog, it made no difference  to the premium  amount.
Mr S chose to reduce  the benefit he would be entitled to if his dog was lost or sadly died. 
This did reduce  his premium and so he renewed.  However, that was his decision to make in 
these circumstances.  I do appreciate as the cover was for the lifetime of the dogs, changing 
insurers when the dog is elderly and has had claims does mean all pre-existing conditions 
arent then covered. But that is an industry wide issue and not one I can hold NFU 
responsible for. Further, its usual  that as the pet gets older,  the premiums do increase given 
naturally theres  more  likelihood  of claims being made in those circumstances.
So overall, I dont  consider  NFU did anything wrong  here. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7504720