K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is resident  in mainland Europe. Her complaint  is that Blevins Franks Financial 
Management Limited (BFFM) failed to give her advice on the tax implications  of the sale of 
her property in the UK.
background
The relevant  events appear  to have taken place between around 2015.  
Mrs W obtained BFFMs  advice in 2015, about  investments,  and evidence  reflects that the 
funds to be used  for investment were  the proceeds of the sale of Mrs Ws property in the UK. 
The fact find and financial planning report (which made the investment  recommendation)  
says her objective was to have tax efficient investments in the context of her residency at the 
time and, prospectively,  in the context of UK residency in the event that she returned to the 
UK in the future. The documents also reflect  that she wanted tax efficient income and tax 
efficient capital growth. However, the present complaint is that BFFMs  advice failed to 
address Mrs Ws tax liability arising from the UK property sale  she says it was implicit that 
such advice was required but BFFM failed to give it.
The advice took place outside  the UK, however BFFMs consent to our voluntary jurisdiction 
provides the basis  for this service  to consider the complaint.  Mrs W appears to have a 
complaint about  the suitability of BFFMs investment advice that is being addressed 
separately.
BFFM disputes the present complaint.  In summary,  it says the property sale was already in 
progress when its advice  was sought  and given; it was not involved in the property sale and 
it was not involved  in advising on how to manage the outcome of the sale; its advice was 
prospective, in terms of the investment of the proceeds of the sale; its advice catered for the 
prospective tax efficiency issues (as summarised above) that were in the context of her 
residency at the time (and potential return to the UK in the future) and in the context of tax 
efficient income and capital growth; advice on the tax implication(s)  of the outcome of Mrs 
Ws property sale was outside  its remit.
One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld  for broadly the same  reasons as BFFM presented. Mrs W disagreed,  she 
accepted that BFFM had no involvement  in the sale of the UK property  but pointed  out that it 
gave the impression, which she relied  upon,  that its tax planning  service  was wide enough  to 
cater for advice  on the tax implications of the sale. The adjudicator retained his view and 
commented that even if a firm offers a wide range of services its advice could still be based  
on a specific remit and evidence is that BFFMs remit in advising Mrs W did not extend to 
advice about the tax implications of the UK property sale. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In straightforward terms, I have reached  the same  conclusion as the adjudicator. I am not 
persuaded to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as the points  that 
BFFM made  and those summarised by the adjudicator. I endorse  the reasons  given  by the 
adjudicator.
Ref: DRN72142782Mrs W accepts  that BFFM was not involved in the UK property sale. BFFM accepts its 
knowledge, at the time,  that the proceeds from the sale would fund the investment(s)  it was 
advising on. 
The present  complaint is specifically about the tax implications of the UK property sale. 
BFFMs responsibility  to advise on the tax related  matters I summarised above (in the 
background section) is not in dispute. However, it is clear that those matters did not 
expressly include advice  on the tax implications  of the UK property sale. Taking each  in turn 
 that is, tax efficiency  in a residency context, tax efficient income and tax efficient capital 
growth  I am also satisfied that none  of them could reasonably be said to have implicitly 
covered the tax implications of the sale of a property in the UK.
The conclusion that arises is that BFFM was not obliged to give advice on the tax 
implications of the UK property sale. I have seen a letter from Mrs W sent to BFFM  in 
January 2016,  in which she refers  to receipt of its 2015 financial planning report  and in which 
she instructs  investment  of what appears to be the proceeds of the UK property sale.  If, as 
asserted, there was an expectation that BFFMs  advice should have been wide enough  to 
cover the tax implications  of the sale proceeds Mrs Ws letter does not reflect  that. It appears 
to have been sent in the aftermath of the sale and there is nothing  in it to suggest that she 
considered BFFMs 2015 advice to have been incomplete.
In any case, I repeat,  evidence suggests  that BFFM was not obliged to advice  on the tax 
implications of the sale proceeds. I also agree with the adjudicators  view that even if Mrs 
Ws knowledge of BFFM, based on how it advertised itself at the time, was such that gave 
her the impression it provided a wide range of service, the key issue is the specific  remit 
upon which she sought its advice and upon  which it gave its advice in 2015.  I have  not seen 
evidence of a suggestion within that specific remit, as captured in the advice and 
recommendation related documents, to suggest that BFFM  should  have advised on the tax 
implications of the UK property sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7214278