K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably in dealing with his mortgage application. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr B applied through a broker to transfer  (port) his mortgage product/interest rate to a new 
property. He said that Halifax agreed  and gave him a mortgage offer,  but then withdrew the 
offer. As contracts had been exchanged, Mr B said that he had no choice but to use another  
product with an early  repayment charge attached,  though he also said that he couldve 
delayed completion  if hed known before contracts were  exchanged. Mr B felt that this 
decision made it more  expensive for him to borrow more money later to renovate (and the 
length of the loan was limited to ten years).
Mr B complained to Halifax.  It said that the mortgage offer wasnt  withdrawn, the case  was 
put back to the pre-offer stage, which wasnt unusual for porting applications  and didnt stop 
the offer being relied upon in the future  once  the issue  in question was resolved. Halifax said 
Mr Bs broker when  contacted about the problem asked  for a new product to be put in place, 
even though he knew Halifax was willing to put the application back onto the offer as set out. 
It said that it was Mr Bs choice to take out the product and later borrowing and it couldnt 
deal with actions  of the broker.
Mr B complained to us. He provided evidence that the broker  had said that once the 
application was marked pre-offer, the mortgage  offer wasnt  valid any more,  and that the 
broker thought  it was connected  to payments made  by Mr B reducing the mortgage balance 
below the amount due to port (you cant port what you dont owe). The broker said that the 
best solution was to get a new mortgage  product (with a lower  interest  rate) and the early  
repayment charges  were  waived. 
The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. She pointed out that the 
mortgage offer given  by Halifax was valid for a year from September 2016, but it couldnt be 
used in November  2016 as Mr Bs product was about to expire.  Halifax  hadnt made Mr Bs 
broker aware of the issue in good  time in the view of the investigator.  
The investigator said while Halifax shouldve allowed Mr B to just port his interest rate, she 
didnt think Mr B had suffered financial loss as the interest rate for the new mortgage  was 
low and he always intended to borrow  more  money in the future  the interest  rate for the 
extra borrowing  was always likely to be higher due to the mortgage taken out to buy the 
property being  in place. The investigator pointed out that while Mr B was unhappy about the 
length of the additional  loan, there  wasnt  any evidence he couldve re-mortgaged for the full 
borrowing for a longer  period, and the shorter period meant he paid less interest overall. And 
she noted that while Mr B had now re-mortgaged and paid an early repayment  charge on the 
extra borrowing, if he had done  so earlier hed still have had to pay a charge. 
The investigator said Halifax did cause  Mr B trouble and upset by causing  him to arrange a 
new product just before completion,  and £150  compensation  was fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN78105522Halifax disagreed.  It said that solicitors  couldnt exchange contracts  without a mortgage offer 
in place and it had been willing to allow  the port and was in the process of recreating  the 
product. The broker  chose a new product; Halifax suggested the broker  was to blame. Mr B 
accepted the investigators view. The investigator said Halifax hadnt told the broker that the 
fix was in place,  and was never told that Halifax was trying to put things right. Halifax said 
that a member of staff involved actually gave the broker a choice  between  porting or picking 
a new product, and it only took one day for the new offer to be put in place. The investigator 
didnt change her view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr B has said that the mortgage wasnt suitable  for his needs, but he was 
advised by a broker. Its the brokers  role to advise Mr B on suitability, not Halifaxs, so I cant  
say Halifax has acted  unfairly or unreasonably  on this issue.
What happened  in Mr Bs case  is simpler than its been described to him. Mr B had a 
mortgage product  which was due to end its fixed interest rate period less than three months 
before he was due to buy the new property. When his solicitors notified Halifax that he was 
ready to port (which it did via the certificate  of title following the issue  of the mortgage  offer 
two months earlier), this triggered an alert within the system as Mr Bs mortgage product was 
effectively expired. This meant that if Mr B wanted  to repay the mortgage  at that point, no 
early repayment charge  was due as Halifax had a policy of waiving it if less than three 
months of the product  was left and a new product or mortgage was being  put in place with it. 
This is a well known policy and one which Halifax might fairly and reasonably expect a 
broker to know, but not Mr B.
This meant,  as Halifax told the broker, the product which Mr B wanted to port had expired. 
While Halifax  was willing to reconstruct it to allow the port to complete, and had started to do 
so, it didnt tell the broker  this. What the broker was told was to pick a new product in order  
to proceed, and this was just days before completion. Mr B needed a new product in order to 
have a mortgage with Halifax for the new property.
But I note that the mortgage offer given to Mr B when  he first applied to port didnt tell him 
that the product was about to expire and couldnt  be ported once less than three months had 
left to run on the fixed interest rate period. It said that the offer was available  for acceptance  
for a year. While I accept that there are strict  regulatory rules about  what must be in a 
mortgage offer, this is very confusing. I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Halifax  
to have explained much  earlier the issue to Mr Bs broker. It also wouldve been  fair and 
reasonable to explain  that Halifax was willing to reconstruct the product to allow the port to 
complete and that it was in the process of doing  that  Halifax didnt on the evidence  Ive 
seen do that; it did the opposite  and told the broker to pick a new product.
But for the reasons outlined by the investigator  in her view, which I note Mr B accepted,  I 
cant say that Mr B suffered financial loss due to Halifaxs  unfair  and unreasonable  
behaviour. He got a mortgage  with a lower interest rate and no early repayment  charge, and 
theres no evidence  that he couldve borrowed the extra money later for less or for a longer 
period.
Ref: DRN78105523I do though think  Mr B suffered trouble and upset due to Halifaxs failure to explain the issue 
with the port in a timely  way, to tell his broker that the product could be reconstructed  (and 
that it was in the process of so doing), and its instruction to the broker to pick a new product. 
This happened just before  completion and after contracts had been exchanged;  Mr B was 
moving home. Money  never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, but taking all the 
circumstances and evidence into account, I think £150 compensation does fairly and 
reasonably compensate for Mr Bs trouble  and upset. While it took about a day to resolve 
matters, Mr B still felt under pressure to pick a product and was clearly worried the 
transaction would  fail.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr B 
£150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
11 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7810552