K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained to us that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when she applied  for credit card in 2005.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it should  be upheld.  
Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover  and based  on what we 
know about Mrs S circumstances she met those rules. So I think she was eligible and could 
have claimed on the PPI if she needed  to.
Next, Ive looked at whether Capital One made  it sufficiently clear to Mrs S that the PPI was 
optional. Mrs S told us that it wasnt explained to her that she had a choice about the policy. 
This sale took place  over 18 years ago. In complaints such as these its not unusual  for 
information to be missing or incomplete. Capital One thinks  that the policy  was sold over the 
phone, however due to the amount  of time that has passed it no longer holds a copy  of the 
recording. Ive noted that Mrs S has been unable to recall a great  level of detail about the 
sale. Its understandable, given  how much  time has passed, that Mrs S might not be able to 
accurately remember everything that happened from that many years ago. 
However we do have a copy  of the call script.  Having considered  this, I think its likely it 
would have prompted the Capital One representative to explain to Mrs S that the PPI was 
optional. Ive carefully considered what Mrs S has told us. But based  on all the available  
information Im not persuaded that its more likely than not that Capital One failed to make  it 
clear to her that she had a choice. So Im not upholding  her complaint on this basis.
Next, Capital One also had to give Mrs S information which was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so she could make the decision for herself whether or not to take out the PPI. 
Im not persuaded she was told everything she should have been told. 
Ref: DRN74302782From the information Mrs S provided to us, if she was too ill to work or was made 
unemployed, shed have  been entitled  to pay from her employer for three  months. She told 
us that in her view she didnt need  the policy.
But the cost and benefit of the policy was comparable to those  of other, similar policies 
available at the time. The PPI would have paid out for longer than her employer  benefits.  
And given  Mrs S circumstances, I dont  think shed have been  affected by the exclusions 
and restrictions in the terms and conditions. So I dont think  being given clearer information  
about these things would have dissuaded  her from taking out the PPI. On balance, I think its 
most likely that Mrs S agreed to the policy and in this case  I wont be asking Capital One to 
put anything right. 
Finally, Mrs S representative says Capital  One treated her unfairly because its staff didnt 
tell her they would  be paid commission. As our adjudicator  explained, the FCAs rules and 
the Supreme Court  judgment doesnt  apply to Mrs Ss complaint because her credit 
agreement with Capital  One ended before 6 April 2008. And as Ive already explained, I 
dont think the PPI was mis-sold, so I dont think Capital One needs  to refund any of the 
money Mrs S paid for the policy.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S, but for the reasons set out above Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7430278