K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) refused to cover his claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
My references to UKI include its agents. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold Mr Ps complaint,  and I include here an extract  
from my earlier decision:
Mr P had an accident abroad.  He cut his head and had lacerations on his leg, which  
required urgent  surgery.  His parents called UKI, his travel insurer. 
UKI looked at a report from the doctor who treated Mr P, which indicated hed consumed  
alcohol, and wanted more  information. It said it would cover  the cost of surgery  but only on 
the basis that Mr P signed its disclaimer agreeing that hed repay  any costs if the claim 
wasnt covered. Its agent arranged for him to sign this form.
When UKI had received  a toxicology  report it wouldnt cover the claim. It said the toxicology  
report together with the treating doctors report showed Mr P was heavily intoxicated by 
alcohol and struggling  to communicate. The doctor had said the injury  happened when Mr P 
tried to jump  over a wall. Its policy didnt cover  claims  where  alcohol meant the policyholders  
judgment was seriously affected. 
Mr P had to make  his own arrangements to leave hospital and travel  home.  He said he didnt 
receive any contact from UKI at all, as his only dealings were with its agent  and the hospital  
abroad. 
But Mr P has since  received debt collection letters for payment of the medical bills. He 
complained to UKI, and has disputed its version  of events. Although  he accepts hed been 
drinking on the night of the accident  he says he didnt jump over a wall, but fell over one in a 
low lit area.  But UKI said it had made a correct decision in 2015, so Mr P has come to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He didnt think UKI had shown that the alcohol had 
caused the accident. UKI disagreed so the complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
UKI says it wont cover  Mr Ps claim under the policys general exclusions that say:
We will not pay any claim resulting fromDeliberate harm or recklessness 
Any claim made as a result of you [the policyholder]
f) drinking  so much that your judgment  is seriously  affected. 
Ref: DRN73762862Mr P has shown  he had an accident,  and his medical costs  would be insured under the 
travel policy but for the issue over the recklessness and alcohol consumption. So its for UKI 
to show, on the balance of probability that it can rely on the policy  exclusion.
For me to find that Mr P was acting recklessly  Id have to decide that he realised there was a 
risk but he took no or inadequate steps  to prevent that risk. And its not enough for UKI to 
show that Mr P had consumed alcohol.  It must show, again on balance that Mr P wouldnt 
have had the accident if hed not been  drinking so much that his judgement was seriously 
affected. 
The evidence is that Mr P had been  drinking, and given  the alcohol level in his blood his 
judgment might have been  impaired. But I dont think  UKI has done enough to show that any 
impairment in his judgment  caused the injuries  hes claimed for. 
In saying this Ive taken into account  all the available evidence. I can see that if Mr P had 
tried to jump  over a high wall that the accident  wouldnt  have  happened.  There  is evidence  in 
the medical report that hed fallen on a glass partition/wall after trying to jump over it. But 
Mr P denied that at the time of the accident.  When UKI spoke to him he hadnt seen the 
glass wall and had walked/teetered over the edge of it and it had broken under his weight. 
This is consistent with the evidence hes given since then.
UKI had appointed a local agent  at the time of the accident. UKI turned down the claim on 
the grounds Mr P had been drinking so much his judgment was impaired. But it didnt do 
anything to show that the drinking had caused the accident. Mr P has said the wall was a low 
one and appeared to him to be the next step up. Hes said the area was low lit, and he didnt 
jump over it but rather didnt realise  it was a wall  as it was glass  and it broke under his 
weight. I dont think this shows recklessness   that is, that he recognised  a risk and failed to 
take any steps to prevent that risk. 
Mr P says the wall was a low one  around  50cm high  so, of itself, walking up to it doesnt 
show reckless  behaviour. And UKI didnt  obtain  any photographs or evidence of the area at 
the time,  despite  having appointed a local agent. It hasnt  shown the area was well lit or that 
any reasonable person stepping up to the wall would have realised  there was a risk. It hasnt 
got any evidence  to refute Mr Ps version of events, even though its assistance notes from 
the time indicate  that the evidence about  the nature of the glass wall was very conflicting.  
I dont think the medical report  account  is enough  in the absence of any other  evidence  to 
show that Mr P had taken  a reckless risk. 
To my mind,  the type of accident Mr P suffered  is one that anyone might  suffer  in a low lit 
area. I dont  think it is indicative of reckless behaviour.  
Mr P has also provided witness accounts of the accident. UKI has expressed some concerns  
about them, but Mr P has followed the steps  UKI has asked such as obtaining passport 
numbers and addresses for the witnesses. Of course,  it could have asked for witness  reports  
at the time of the accident.  
As I understand it Mr P hasnt paid the medical expenses, except for some limited  treatment  
after UKI withdrew the cover.  Hes provided receipts for that, as well as the communications 
hes received from the debt collection  agent  acting for the hospital.  I think  there was some 
confusion initially about what  a payment under disclaimer  meant,  and that UKI was 
guaranteeing payment only subject to this disclaimer  as Mr P needed urgent surgery. But in 
Ref: DRN73762863any event I now intend to require UKI to contact the debt collection  agent  to take over the 
debt, and to take the steps  set out in the my provisional decision below. 
Mr P says that he would  like to claim for his flight expenses back  to the UK and also the cost 
of physiotherapy  in the UK. UKI should consider his claim  under the policy,  in line with the 
remaining policy terms. It is not entitled  to rely on the policy exclusion for recklessness.
responses
Mr P responded to say he accepted my provisional  decision.
UKI didnt  accept my provisional decision,  and made  some detailed  comments  with 
reference to the point  Id made  in my provisional decision that it wasnt enough for it to show  
that Mr P had consumed alcohol. Id said it must show,  on balance, that he would not have 
had the accident if hed not been drinking  so much that his judgement was seriously 
affected. UKI said:
It referred to the medical report that Id mentioned in my decision, saying that Mr Ps 
injuries were suffered  after falling onto a glass partition  when trying  to jump over it, 
that he had been  drinking  alcohol  and was non-communicable due to being drunk. 
UKI says the doctors statement must have come  from one of Mr Ps friends whom  
he was with at the time, and contradicts the later statements  saying he didnt see the 
wall. 
Mr P didnt  contact UKI, his parent did, who had only limited details and didnt know 
the hospital name because Mr P was out of it. This supported its view that Mr P was 
extremely drunk  at the time of the incident.  
It wasnt until two days after the incident  that UKI was able to speak to Mr P. In the 
findings I made UKI said there  appears  to be conflicting circumstances  surrounding 
this incident. This included that Mr P hadnt seen the glass wall and had 
walked/teetered over the edge  of it when it had broken under his weight; that Mr P 
said the wall was a low one and appeared to him to be the next step up; as the area 
was low lit he didnt jump  over it but rather didnt  realise it was a wall, as it was glass  
and it broke under  his weight; that the wall was a low one  around 50cm high  so of 
itself walking up to it doesnt show reckless behaviour. 
So UKI says that the circumstances all seem conflicting, some  stating  he walked up 
to the wall, others that he thought  it was the next step up and it broke  under  his 
weight. If he couldnt have seen the wall due to the area being low lit then he couldnt 
have believed this was a step up as he wouldnt have know it was there. 
The toxicology report said the level of alcohol consumption in Mr Ps blood  was 
2.44g/L, which is 0.2442 g/DL.  Referring to an overseas  Universitys  website, the 
level of alcohol in his blood stream would  mean  he was between sloppy drunk, 
vomiting, confusion,  staggering around and unconscious,  stupor . UKI referred to 
the drink drive limit in England, Wales and Northern Ireland  of 0.08 g/dL and in 
Scotland of 0.05 g/dL. 
From  the medical information its clear Mr P was extremely  drunk  to the point of 
being unable  to communicate  with the hospital  staff or the insurer. So its arguable he 
Ref: DRN73762864wouldnt remember the circumstances leading up to the incident,  especially given  the 
conflicting information hes given (as describe above).
It appreciates that walking up to a glass wall when sober or with a small amount of 
alcohol wouldnt be reckless. But given the level of intoxication UKI feels Mr P was 
being reckless, as he either jumped  over the wall (as confirmed  at the time) or 
decided to stand  on it, when clearly it wasnt designed for that purpose.
UKI appreciates the comment about  the area being low lit, but Mr P has said he also 
thought the 50cm glass wall was the next step, so wouldnt  have seen this regardless 
of the lighting. If hed thought a 50cm glass wall was the next step then this itself 
suggests Mr Ps judgement was impaired  as it wouldnt  be interpreted  as a step at 
this height and wouldnt be a safe surface to step onto. So it doesnt  agree with my 
comment that this is an accident  anyone might  suffer in a low lit area,  as if it was 
clear it was well lit enough  for Mr P to see there was a wall there, the height of the 
wall and what it was made of. UKI reiterates the original medical  report  statement 
that Mr C did try to jump over the wall. So UKI considers  the injury was incurred due 
to reckless behaviour  and the policy exclusion applies. 
Mr P was drunk to the point that his blood alcohol levels confirmed he would at least  
have been suffering  from confusion and staggering around. He was also unable to 
communicate with medical staff due to the level of intoxication. That alone is reckless 
behaviour and he has put himself at risk. The circumstances  are conflicting but Mr P 
has confirmed he saw a wall and believed this was the next step. So it being a low lit 
area has no bearing. It is reckless behaviour to step onto a 50cm  glass  wall and any 
sober person  wouldnt believe this would be the next step, due to the height and it 
being glass. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  all the points that UKI has made and reviewed the case  again. 
Having done so, I still consider that UKI hasnt shown that Mr P acted recklessly, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision and here. Ill focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues in this case.  
UKI has said that the fact Mr P drank alcohol to the level shown in the toxicity  report means, 
of itself, that he acted  recklessly. But I dont agree this is enough for it fairly to reject his 
travel insurance claim. As I explained  in my earlier decision, for me to find that Mr P acted 
recklessly Id have to decide that he realised there was a risk in what  he was doing  and took 
no or inadequate steps to prevent the risk.
Ive read all UKIs comments about Mr Ps own accounts of the accident. But Im not 
persuaded that UKI has shown, on balance,  that Mr P acted recklessly. Hed drunk alcohol 
and he was walking  with friends when  he injured himself. He walked up to and stepped on 
what he thought  was a step, in low lighting, and it seems to me that some  of what  hes said 
was based on what he realised only after hed taken the step up. I remain  of the view that 
this isnt reckless behaviour. So I dont think its fair for UKI to rely on the reckless exclusion 
to turn down  the claim. In my view his explanation of what happened  at the time isnt 
inconsistent with what hed later said.
Ref: DRN73762865Importantly UKI itself realised at the time of the accident that Mr Ps explanation  of what  
happened didnt  fit with the evidence  in the medical  notes. UKI has now made  an 
assumption about the doctors comments being  based on the testimony of his friends,  but 
I dont think its fair to make that assumption. UKI could  reasonably  have spoken to the 
doctors at the time about what was recorded  in their notes and why. There  was a language  
barrier for Mr P and his friends,  which might  have affected what  was recorded in the notes.  
UKI could  also have viewed and taken  photographs of the scene  of the accident, given the 
seriousness of its decision to decline the claim.
Mr P wasnt  able to call UKI himself  and wasnt able to speak clearly to his family. Hes never 
disputed that hed been drinking, but hed had a traumatic injury. Hes said hed been given 
gas and air in the ambulance and the medical  evidence shows he was given a sedative 
after arriving  at the hospital. So while the alcohol is an undisputed part in his condition  at the 
time, there were arguably other factors as well. 
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont consider UKI has done enough to show, on balance, 
that Mr P behaved recklessly. So in my view the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is 
for UKI to take over the claim for Mr Ps medical costs  and to consider his claim for the 
expenses he paid himself,  as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold this 
complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited  to:
Write  to Mr P to confirm that UKI is responsible for any bills, and that he should pass 
any further correspondence about the debt to the insurer;
Confirm to Mr P that it has contacted the debt collection agent/s acting on behalf  of 
the hospital and tell it to send all correspondence to UKI, not to Mr P;
Re-assure Mr P that if any legal proceedings are taken UKI will take responsibility for 
the costs;
Keep  Mr P informed  as to what is going  on and an estimate of how long it anticipates 
it will take to reach  a settlement. 
Consider any claim  Mr P makes for benefits under the policy,  subject to the 
remaining policy terms but without  reference  to the reckless  behaviour exclusion.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7376286