K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained because Tradex Insurance Company Limited logged four claims on his 
motor trade  policy, therefore meaning he had zero no claims discount  (NCD).
background
The nature of Mr Ls policy is that cars are added  to it whenever theyre  bought, and 
removed whenever  theyre sold. The policy lapsed  in August 2018. A few days  later, 
Tradexs representative (who Ill refer to as C) wrote  to Mr L to confirm  that he had a zero 
NCD because of the four claims.  Mr L complained because he didnt have any of the cars 
when the accidents occurred, and hed asked C to remove  them from the policy. Mr L 
provided C with documents showing that the cars had either  been  sold or returned  to their 
original owner.
C looked into the matter and provided Mr L with a response to his complaint. It said it had no 
record of Mr L originally  contacting it to remove  any of the cars from the policy. However, its 
claims team had liaised  with the third parties  on three of the claims and the claims were  
directed elsewhere.  These claims were therefore  now closed, without Mr Ls NCD being 
affected. The fourth claim remained open  with Mr Ls NCD  being affected  as C hadnt 
managed to arrange with the third party for the claim to be re-directed. Because  one claim 
remained open, C felt it correct that Mr Ls NCD remained as zero.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision, which explained why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined  below, and form part of my 
provisional decision.
removal of the cars from the policy
Mr L said he asked C to remove the cars from the policy when he sold them  (or in the 
case of one car when  he returned  it to the original  owner).  Tradex and C said they had 
no record of receiving  any such instructions from Mr L.
C provided me with a copy  of its file which showed when it received contact from Mr L 
about wanting to add a car to or remove one from the policy. These  records  were fairly 
detailed and I thought it likely that if Mr L had contacted C a record  of the contact would 
have been logged. There was the possibility that contact was made and C never  logged  
it; but I thought  that would have been more likely to happen on a one-off occasion rather  
than at three separate times.
I didnt think Mr L had sufficiently shown that he contacted C to remove the three  cars 
from the policy. So I was satisfied that Tradex (or C on its behalf) acted fairly by not 
removing them.
logging the claims  on the policy
None of the cars had been  removed  from the policy  when the respective accidents 
occurred. As outlined above,  I didnt think Tradex acted  unfairly  in that respect. So as 
Tradex understood that it continued to insure each of the cars when the accidents 
occurred, I thought it acted fairly when it logged the claims.
Ref: DRN78079712closing the claims
The first claim  was for an accident  that happened in November 2017. This claim was still 
open in August 2018 when C issued confirmation of Mr Ls NCD. It was the one claim 
still open in January  2019 when C issued Tradexs final response to the complaint. In 
light of the sales  receipt Mr L had provided in December 2017  confirming the car had 
been sold in October, C said it had asked the third party  to re-direct  their claim. It isnt 
clear to me precisely  what happened  from January  2019; however C told me that all the 
claims referenced in this case had been closed  or withdrawn.
I didnt think Tradex handled  this claim fairly. It knew  in December 2017 that Mr L didnt 
own the car when  the accident  happened. So it wasnt clear to me why it took so long to 
close the claim. I couldnt see why Tradex couldnt simply  have told the third party  that it 
wasnt Mr Ls car so it wouldnt be responding to the claim;  and close  the claim at that 
point. Had the claim  been  closed  soon  after December  2017 it wouldnt have affected 
Mr Ls NCD in August 2018.
The second and third claims were for two accidents that happened within days of each  
other in early May 2018 involving the same car. Both claims were still open in August 
2018; but both had been closed by January 2019.
I didnt think Tradex handled  these claims fairly. It knew  towards the end of May 2018 
that Mr L didnt own the car when the accidents happened as it had been provided with 
confirmation the car had been  returned  to the original  owner.  So it wasnt clear  why it 
took until September and November close the respective claims. I couldnt see why 
Tradex couldnt simply have  told the third parties that it wasnt  Mr Ls car so it wouldnt 
be responding to the claims; and close the claims at that point. Had the claims been 
closed soon after May 2018 they wouldnt have affected Mr Ls NCD in August 2018.
However, because  of the fourth  claim, I didnt think Tradexs handling of the above 
claims had a major effect on the overall situation.  The fourth claim was for an accident 
that happened in July 2018. This claim was still open in August 2018  but it had closed by 
January 2019.  Unlike  the above claims, I hadnt  seen anything  to show that either C or 
Tradex received anything from Mr L before the policy  lapsed  confirming that the car had 
been sold. So it was still on the policy when the policy lapsed in August 2018.  So unlike 
the above claims, there was no reason for Tradex to tell the third party that it wouldnt 
respond to the claim. I was therefore satisfied that Tradex  handled this claim fairly  in that 
it wasnt closed by August 2018.
C told us that a week after the policy lapsed  it received a copy  of the sales receipt 
confirming the car had been sold prior to the accident. So I thought  at that point Tradex  
ought to have dealt with this claim much like Id outlined on the above claims.
confirmation of Mr Ls NCD
The letter sent in August 2018  confirmed that all four claims were open and that Mr Ls 
NCD was zero. I thought three  of the claims should  have  been  closed by this point. But 
the NCD would still have been zero because the fourth claim was still open.
A further  letter was sent in November 2018, confirming that the first and fourth claims 
remained open and that the NCD was zero. However, by that stage I thought all four 
Ref: DRN78079713claims should have  been closed by Tradex,  so the NCD should have been confirmed as 
three years.
compensation
Mr L said that Tradex logging the claims and saying he had a zero NCD led to him losing 
his job and wife, and led to him suffering depression. This was because  his new insurer  
cancelled his new policy as he couldnt provide proof of the three years NCD or the 
correct claims. He also couldnt  afford  a policy with zero years NCD. That meant he 
couldnt trade so he lost his income,  which in turn meant  he struggled to support his 
family  which led to his wife leaving.
Although I concluded  that Tradex treated Mr L unfairly in respect  of the handling  of three  
claims up to the point the policy lapsed, I thought Mr L would still have  been  in pretty 
much the same  situation even  if those claims had been  handled  as Id suggested. That 
was because his NCD would still have been zero when  his policy  lapsed.  So he would 
still have faced the same problems with his new insurer (or with Tradex  if hed renewed  
the policy) in proving the three  years no claims and being  able to afford a policy with a 
zero NCD.  And, therefore, he would  have faced the same  financial hardship.
I didnt therefore  think there were  grounds to make Tradex pay any compensation. 
Although it could have handled things better, I didnt think  that led to Mr L being in a 
worse position than he would have been in anyway.
responses to my provisional  decision
Tradex said it had nothing  further to add. 
I didnt receive anything further  from Mr L.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there isnt anything  further for me to consider, my final decision remains  as outlined  in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
my final decision
Im not minded  to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7807971