K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out by Ms W and 
Mr W with a loan in 2002. The policy covered Ms W only. Ms W and the estate of Mr W say 
Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Ms W took out a personal loan in January 2002.
At the same time as the loan was sold Mr and Ms W were  also sold PPI. The policy  was of 
the single  premium type, so the cost of the cover  was added to the initial loan amount. The 
policy cost just over £3936 without interest  due over the 84 month term of the loan. 
The policy was designed to protect  Mr and Ms Ws loan repayments in the event  that Ms W 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or if she lost her job  up to 12 months for 
unemployment and up to the duration  of the loan for accident and sickness.
Mr and Ms Ws loan was repaid before the end of its term in November 2004.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought it was clear Mr and Ms W 
had a choice whether  to take out PPI or not. And there was nothing  to indicate from what 
shed seen that the policy was mis-sold.
Ms W disagrees, so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken whats relevant here into 
account in deciding Ms W and Mr Ws case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms W  I know  this isnt the answer she was hoping  for. But Ive 
decided not to uphold her complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Nationwide says that this was a non-advised sale, by which  it means that it didnt recommend 
the PPI to Mr and Ms W personally  or advise  them  to take it. I dont know  what  was said during 
the sale, but Ive not seen anything to show  me clearly that it did make a personal 
recommendation to them.  And based on this services knowledge of Nationwides sales  
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that the sale was non-advised. This means 
Nationwide did not have to ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Ms W, but they did 
have to provide  Mr and Ms W with good enough  information about the policy  so they could  
make an informed decision about whether to have it or not.
I can see Ms Ws main  complaint is that the cover  wasnt presented as optional   they 
werent given a choice about it. I note that Ms W originally said they were  pressured into 
taking the PPI but she clarified in response  to the adjudicators view that she had no 
recollection of PPI being mentioned as optional and that they were just given it.  Ive 
considered this carefully looking  at everything  thats been presented in this case.
Ref: DRN71490522And having done so, I think,  on balance,  that Nationwide did do enough to make it clear Mr 
and Ms W had a choice.
I dont know what was said about PPI or what was meant to be said. But Nationwide  has 
given us a copy  of Mr and Ms Ws loan agreement, which was sent to them after their 
discussion with Nationwide to sign and return.  On this I can see the PPI was set out 
separately in a column titled optional credit insurance showing a break  down of the 
separate costs.  Mr and Ms W signed this and returned it to Nationwide. So I think  on this 
basis it would be unfair to say PPI wasnt shown as optional.
So while I cant know what was discussed  with Mr and Ms W, having carefully weighed up 
everything, I think Nationwide did make  it clear enough that they had a choice about PPI and 
that they agreed to take it out on that basis.
Im satisfied that Nationwide made the cost of the PPI clear. I say this because  the credit  
agreement sets out the basic cost of the cover,  the interest charged assuming  the loan ran 
to term, the overall  cost and the monthly  cost. So I think Mr and Ms W understood what  the 
cover was going to cost them so they could weigh up its value to them.
Ive also thought about the fact that Mr and Ms W repaid their loan. This is because with 
some single premium policies they didnt offer a pro-rata refund of the premium. In these  
cases repaying the loan early  would be more expensive. But Nationwide  did offer a pro-rata 
refund on this policy, so Mr and Ms W didnt  lost out here.
I dont have enough evidence to know what information Nationwide gave Mr and Ms W 
about the PPI at the time of the sale. For example  if they were told about the significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Ms W took the cover  out without 
knowing anything about it, but I dont know if they received everything they needed  to know 
to allow  them to make  an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done.  I accept Mr 
and Ms W may not have  been  treated fairly and reasonably.
But I dont think Mr and Ms W lost out as a result.  I say this because I find it unlikely that Mr 
and Ms W would have acted differently and not gone ahead with the cover  if Nationwide had 
given them more  information. I say this because  Ms W was eligible for the cover and all its 
benefits. And she was employed and in good  health at the time, so it doesnt  appear she 
would have been affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations  of her cover such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. 
Ms W has argued  that they didnt need the PPI. But it was for them to decide, based on the 
information they were  given, whether  they wanted  it or not. I think  the PPI would have been 
useful to them as although Ms W had six months full sick pay and six months  half sick pay 
entitlement from her employer and some savings, the policy  paid out in addition to her sick pay 
until the loan was paid off. I note that Mr W had retired at the time of the sale and although he 
had a pension,  they were  depending significantly on Ms Ws income. Again I think  the policy 
would have been useful as it paid out for 12 months  if Ms W lost her job. So they had reason 
to choose to take the PPI, and I dont think there  was anything  that Nationwide  failed to tell 
them that would have caused  them not to decide  to purchase it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Ms W may not have  been  treated fairly and reasonably by Nationwide  in its dealings  
with them,  I find they didnt lose out. This is because, on balance, for the reasons Ive 
Ref: DRN71490523detailed above,  I think Ms W and Mr Ws estate would  have  been  in the same position if 
Nationwide had done more and properly informed  them - I think  they would have still taken 
out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Ms W and Mr Ws estate did not lose out as a 
result of taking out PPI with their loan, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept  or reject  my decision before 20 March 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7149052