K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ss credit  card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S disagreed.  
His representative said, on his behalf  and in summary, that:
Mr S didnt get a copy of a demands and needs statement.
He never missed any payments, so he didnt need the policy.
If Mr S couldnt  work  due to sickness or an accident, he wouldve received up to three 
months full pay from his employer.
He also had around  £30,000  equity in his property and £1,000  in savings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
I think  American  Express  made Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose  to 
take it I say this because the credit card application  form included the wording:
Please  enrol me in the American  Express Credit Card Repayment Protection Plan
And Mr S has ticked the box to show that he wanted it. I can understand why he can no 
longer remember this, given it took place so long ago.
American  Express didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. This is why he didnt receive a demands  and needs statement.
Its possible  the information American  Express gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been.  But Mr S chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  and 
the policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely  Mr S 
would have made  a different decision if better information  had been provided. On 
balance I think he would still have  taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN73732642Ive taken into account what his representative  has said about why he didnt need the policy. 
He wouldve received up to three months sick pay from his employer and he had some 
savings. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a 
successful claim  for accident  or sickness, so could have been a useful benefit in addition  to 
his existing arrangements. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. I dont  think Mr S 
wouldve wanted to sell his home,  or raise a mortgage, to repay his credit  card if he couldnt 
work, and it wasnt realisable quickly. So this doesnt  make a difference  to my conclusion. 
And, just because he didnt need to make a claim,  doesnt mean  he didnt want  to insure  to 
cover the risk  and doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7373264