K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that he hasnt been paid interest  on his Santander  UK Plc 123 account since 
May 2017. He is unhappy that he wasnt informed about this.
background 
Mr E is a Santander Select customer.  He has a number  of accounts with Santander,  which 
include two 123 current accounts. He said he uses account one as his main account and he 
would carefully review this account  and any statements received. And he told us that 
because he didnt use account two as his main account he wouldnt regularly look at his 
account statements  or review his account  online.  
In May 2017, Mr E changed  energy providers but instead of linking his new direct debit to 
account two he linked  it to account  one in error. This meant that he only had one active 
direct debit on account two.
In August  2018,  Mr E complained to Santander that he hadnt  received interest on his 
current account since May 2017.  He told Santander  he wanted it to credit him with the 
interest he thought  he shouldve  been paid. But, after it investigated, Santander didnt  uphold  
Mr Es complaint because  it said it hadnt made  in error in not paying  interest  to him. It said 
the reason it hadnt paid interest  was because Mr E didnt have two direct  debits set up on 
his account. It said this was necessary in order to qualify for interest on his account balance.
While Mr E initially accepted this response  he asked Santander to reconsider his complaint 
on 4 September  2018. Santander  looked  at it again.  But still didnt think  it had made an error. 
So, it didnt change its decision not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr E brought  his complaint to us. Our 
investigator empathised  with Mr E and thought Santander should  refund the monthly account 
fee it had charged  Mr E from May 2017 to March 2018. But they didnt agree that Santander 
should pay Mr E the interest he wouldve earned had he had two active direct debits set up. 
Santander agreed to compensate Mr E £50 for ten months of the account  fee. But Mr E 
didnt agree with our investigators view. So his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr E had asked to meet our investigator in person. While I can understand 
why he may have wanted this, based on what Ive seen I can see our investigator  had 
enough information to form a view here. In the interests of clarity, its my role as an 
ombudsman to consider  all of the information  and circumstances afresh before making a 
final decision. Here,  Im satisfied that I have enough information to do this without needing  to 
meet or speak  to Mr E. The information  I have is clear and I dont need any more  to be able 
to reach  a decision.
I can understand why Mr E is unhappy  about  what happened. He had earned a large  amount 
of interest up to May 2017.  Thereafter, his account stopped earning interest and I can 
appreciate the extent  of the financial loss he feels  hes suffered due to the interest he 
Ref: DRN71548772expected to earn on the account. But having thought about everything he and Santander  
have said, Ive reached the same overall conclusion  as the investigator. I appreciate  this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr E so Ill explain  why.
I dont think Santander  made an error in not paying interest on Mr Es account balance.  I say 
this because Ive seen the terms and conditions for Mr Es account and they clearly outline  
the eligibility criteria that apply if a customer wants to earn interest  on their account balance.  
These state  that a customer must have a minimum balance, at least two active  direct debits 
set up, pay a monthly account fee and deposit at least  £500 into the account each month. 
While Mr E met all the other eligibility  criteria, he didnt qualify for interest payments on the 
balance because he only had one active direct debit set up.
Mr E said he wasnt aware it was a condition  of his account that he had to have at least two 
active direct  debits in order to earn interest  on his balance. But Santander said when  Mr E 
opened his account in 2013 he was provided with the terms and conditions,  which  confirmed 
hed need to meet certain eligibility criteria in order to receive cashback and interest.  Mr E 
wouldve had to accept  the terms and conditions  to proceed with his application  before 
opening the account. So Im satisfied Santander explained how Mr E would need to operate 
his account it if he wanted to qualify  for interest  payments.
Mr E has told us he made a genuine  mistake in linking his direct debit to the wrong account. 
As the account  holder,  it was ultimately  his responsibility to make  sure the direct debit 
information was correct. Santander couldnt have known that Mr E had linked his direct debit 
to the wrong account until he told it. I can see that it sent monthly statements to Mr E, which 
clearly showed that no interest was being paid. And I agree with our investigator that, in 
sending statements to Mr E, Santander  did enough  to alert Mr E to what  was happening  with 
his account.
While I understand that this account  wasnt Mr Es main account, I think it was reasonable to 
expect him to monitor his account closer than he did. If he had checked his balance online or 
looked at the monthly statements Santander sent him I think he would have realised that 
interest wasnt being paid because his direct debit wasnt debiting this account. And I think  
this wouldve  led to him approaching Santander  sooner  to rectify this issue. With this in mind, 
I dont think it would  be fair to hold Santander responsible for Mr E mistake or for the loss of 
interest he incurred.
Mr E thinks  Santander should  pay him the interest  he wouldve earned if his account had 
had two active direct debits because he feels it shouldve informed him that this account 
wasnt earning interest. But Santander says this account is a self managed account. So, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Santander  to monitor Mr Es account  balance or activity. 
These accounts wouldnt usually be looked  into by Santander unless a customer made a 
request. And while Mr E was earning  interest  prior to May 2017, because  he had two active 
direct debits, Im not persuaded  Santander  had reason  to query why his account  only had 
one direct debit from May 2017 onwards. 
Mr E also feels  that because he was a select customer he shouldve been informed about  
this issue. But I think that unless Mr E raised a query about his account not earning interest, 
it was reasonable  for Santander  not to pick this up. Mr E has told us he visited his branch  in 
July 2017 in order to meet with his Select  Relationship Manager, who he says shouldve  
informed him that his account wasnt earning interest. But, as I havent seen any evidence  
that Mr E asked Santander to look into this account during that meeting I dont think 
Santander did anything  wrong in not informing Mr E that he wasnt earning interest.  
Ref: DRN71548773Ill turn now to the issue of the monthly  fee Mr E was charged  while  he wasnt earning 
interest. Ive seen the key facts document Santander provided to our service, which  applies 
from 12 March 2018 onwards.  This document makes it clear  that the account fee would be 
deducted from Mr Es account each  month   even  where he didnt qualify for an interest 
payment. So, I think Mr E ought to have known that his account  would attract  a fee each 
month even if he wasnt earning interest.  And I also think Santander was entitled  to deduct 
the monthly fee it did after the date of this key facts document.  
In contrast, the terms and conditions Ive seen that are dated July 2013  dont  tell customers  
that the monthly fee will be charged  even if the account isnt earning interest. So, I can 
appreciate why Mr E may not have been aware,  under these terms, that the fee would be 
deducted in circumstances were he didnt qualify  for the accounts rewards.  And I can 
understand why, on this basis,  our investigator  asked Santander to refund its monthly 
account fee from May 2017 until March 2018,  when the key facts document  was 
disseminated to Santanders customers.  I agree that it would be fair to refund these charges 
to Mr E, which Santander has agreed to do.
So while I acknowledge Mr Es strength of feelings  about these matters, I think  the overall 
compensation offered by Santander is fair in the circumstances.  So I will not be ordering it to 
pay any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent  that Santander UK 
Plc should pay Mr E £50. This is to reflect  the monthly account fees he was charged under 
the 2013 terms and conditions when  his account wasnt earning  interest.  But other than this I 
dont need it to do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7154877