K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). Hes unhappy the Pension 
Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS)  he received  was different to what he believed  hed get 
when he applied to take retirement  benefits from his pension. 
background
Mr M contacted Aviva  to apply to take benefits from his pension.  
At the time Mr Ms application  was submitted  the value of his fund was £250,044.41 with an 
available PCLS of £62,473.51. Following  this Aviva sent Mr M a Confirmation Schedule 
quoting these same figures.  The Schedule said the rest of Mr Ms fund (£187,420.56) would 
be moved into drawdown.
Aviva started the process of crystallising  Mr Ms pension fund and when this was completed 
on 11 October 2018 the final value of his fund was £246,270.64, resulting in the payment of 
a PCLS of £61,567.66 to Mr M.
Upon receiving the PCLS and noticing it was lower than hed expected,  Mr M contacted  
Aviva to complain.
Aviva responded to Mr Ms complaint and in summary it:
apologised and explained that until Mr Ms underlying investments had been sold the 
value of the PCLS available was subject  to fluctuations in line with the value of the 
funds his pension  fund was invested in
said stock markets  had been  subject to increased volatility and this had unfortunately 
led to relatively sharp movements in the value  of some  investment funds 
explained that if Mr Fs fund value  had increased during this period he wouldve been 
entitled to this higher amount
said Mr Ms financial adviser  should have highlighted the fact the value of the PCLS 
could change when  discussing  his decision to take benefits
said for the frustration  and inconvenience  caused it had arranged to pay Mr M £200  
Unhappy with Avivas  response,  Mr M referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
she understood why Mr M was disappointed receiving a lower  PCLS  than he was led 
to believe he would
she agreed the Confirmation Schedule Aviva sent to Mr M couldve been clearer and 
warned that the final PCLS amount could change
she didnt think it Aviva  should  honour  the original PCLS  it quoted  to Mr M
she felt the £200  compensation Aviva  paid to Mr M for what  had happened  was fair
Mr M disagreed and so the matter was referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
Ref: DRN76457932direct Aviva to do anything further.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise that 
while Ive taken note of the correspondence, arguments and comments  made  by both 
parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues  central to this 
complaint.  
I should firstly say that I can appreciate  Mr Ms disappointment the PCLS  he received was 
less than the PCLS Aviva quoted when he applied to take retirement benefits.
I dont think Avivas correspondence was as clear  as it couldve  been. Specifically I cant see 
that Aviva  was explicit about the fact that the PCLS Mr M would ultimately  receive could be 
more or less than the amount quoted  to him in its correspondence. Indeed I wouldve 
expected Aviva at some  point during Mr Ms application process to explain that the exact and 
final PCLS figure can only be determined  once the underlying investments his pension  fund 
was invested in were  sold.
Establishing the exact amount of retirement benefits  a consumer is entitled to can only ever 
be known when a pension is crystallised. Unless of course the benefits quoted are 
guaranteed or where paperwork  confirms  that a fund value/PCLS will not vary between the 
date of a quote/illustration  and any subsequent  payment.  This wasnt  the case in Mr Ms 
circumstances.
However as Ive said above, because of the absence of any warning or indication that the 
values quoted werent guaranteed I think it was reasonable  for Mr M to expect hed receive 
the PCLS of £62,473.51  which  Aviva advised  was available. Indeed the Confirmation 
Schedule letter Aviva sent to Mr M following his application said:
Arrangement
Tax-free cash                                                               £62,473.51
Amount moved into drawdown  after tax-free  cash      £187,420.56
Mr M was understandably very disappointed when  he received a PCLS  lower  than hed 
expected. I can also understand  his frustration with Avivas  explanation. The situation  could  
have easily  been  avoided had Aviva been  clearer about the PCLS hed ultimately  receive. 
Aviva unfairly raised Mr Ms expectations at an important time when he was no doubt 
considering his financial position  and retirement planning.
The fact remains however that the PCLS Mr M was entitled to was always going to be based 
on the final value  of his pension fund once its underlying investments had been sold 
(irrespective of whether  the value was higher  or lower than the figures initially  quoted  by 
Aviva). Indeed the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ms pension say:
Valuations  
We will value  the funds  at the end of each business day using the most recent price 
available from the fund manager.  You should  be aware that if you want  to buy or sell 
holdings in a fund, these prices will not necessarily  be the dealing prices  as most funds are 
priced on a forward basis.
This means  that the price  for a sale or purchase transaction is that calculated  at the 
valuation point after the transaction has been placed with the fund manager. 
Ref: DRN76457933You should be aware that if a transaction  instruction  is given in cash terms the actual 
amount you receive  may be more or less than that stipulated.
The PCLS  Mr M has received is what he was entitled to. The issue I have to decide  is 
whether the action Aviva has taken satisfactorily resolves the matter and sufficiently 
compensates Mr M for the trouble and upset caused by what has happened.  
Aviva has apologised  for the misunderstanding it accepts it caused. And based on what Ive 
said above I do believe that what has happened  had caused  Mr B some  trouble and upset 
for which he should receive compensation. Having carefully considered  the matter I think  the 
£200 Aviva  has offered  is reasonable and a fair reflection of the impact of what  happened.
Im aware Mr M feels strongly that Aviva  should  honour the higher  PCLS figure it quoted  to 
him. But in a situation like this, we aim to put consumers back  in the position  they would 
have been in, had the correct information been given, rather  than a business being bound  by 
incorrect/the absence  of information.  So for Mr M, the correct  information is that the PCLS  
he was entitled  to is what he ultimately  received.  I cant therefore say Aviva  must pay Mr M 
the higher PCLS  it initially  quoted.
In response to our investigators assessment of his complaint  Mr M made reference to the 
court and suggested a judge would agree with him. I note the point Mr M is trying  to make 
here. But its important  to emphasise  that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court  of 
law. When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account the legal  
position, as well as industry rules  and standards and what  would be considered good 
industry practice. That means  we dont necessarily reach  exactly the same outcome as a 
court might in every case. We are an alternative  to taking  the matter  to court.
The starting point  is that a plan holder should  only receive the payments  theyre  entitled  to. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair or reasonable to put Mr M in a better financial position than 
he wouldve been,  had Aviva been  clear  about the PCLS at the outset. 
While I havent found in Mr Ms favour, in that I dont think  Aviva should be bound to pay him 
the PCLS it originally  quoted  to him, I should  say that I do think its entirely  reasonable for 
him to expect Aviva to provide him with clear  information. And its unfortunate that on this 
occasion that didnt happen.  I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position and genuinely sorry to hear 
of the impact  that this has had on Mr M. But, after giving it careful consideration, I think the 
offer of £200 that Aviva has already  made does fairly reflect  the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr M. So I wont be asking Aviva  to pay anything more.
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Ms sincerity or strength of feeling  in bringing his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76457934
Ref: DRN7645793