K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Gain Credit  LLC gave  her a poor service when someone  fraudulently  
took out a loan in her name.
background
In March 2018, Mrs B was looking to re-mortgage her house. But her application got 
declined as her credit  file showed she had a loan in arrears. Mrs B looked  into this and found  
that a loan was taken  out with Gain Credit  using her details in December 2017. Gain Credit  
ran some checks  before approving the loan  these  included a credit check and an income  
and expenditure  assessment. But the money was paid into a bank account that wasnt hers.
Mrs B told Gain Credit  about what had happened. Two days later they confirmed theyd 
asked the credit reference agencies to remove the loan from her credit  file. But due to a 
delay with the credit reference agency, Mrs Bs file wasnt amended  for a few weeks.  
Mrs B was really worried about  how the fraudulent loan had affected her finances, so she 
made a complaint to Gain Credit. She wasnt able to re-mortgage her property and was 
having to pay a higher interest  rate on her old mortgage.
Gain Credit looked  into Mrs Bs concerns but thought theyd done enough to help. So Mrs B 
asked our service to look into what had happened. One of our investigators  asked  Gain  
Credit to compensate  Mrs B, but as they didnt agree to, the case was passed to me.
I reviewed Mrs Bs file and issued provisional findings on 3 April.  These  were:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do think  Gain Credit 
should pay Mrs B some  compensation, but Im issuing provisional  findings as I have some 
additional thoughts to share.
Although they havent expressly  said so, it appears  Gain Credit are of the view that the loan 
taken out in Mrs Bs name was indeed fraudulent. I say this because when Mrs B raised  
concerns they asked  for it to be removed from her credit file. So I dont intend on dwelling on 
that further. Instead, what remains  for me to decide  is how Gain  Credit handled the matter, 
and whether it needs to do anything else now. 
Its not necessarily Mrs Bs fault that a fraudster used her details to obtain a loan  but its 
not necessarily Gain Credits fault either.  All I can do is consider whether Gain Credit did a 
good enough job in processing the application.  What I mean by that, is that suitable checks  
around Mrs Bs identity and financial standing were  carried out. 
Ive asked Gain Credit to show me what they did to verify  this loan application. They  shared 
some information with me, but have explained  that the online process means limited  data 
can now be shared. I can see Gain Credit ran a credit  check on Mrs B, and the resulted 
indicated a good standing to them. But apart from that, I cant  see they did much else.  
Theyve shared  a breakdown of what Mrs Bs income and expenditure was said to be, but 
from what I can gather that was just data inputted by the fraudster. 
Ref: DRN71197862So I cant see Gain Credit took steps to see whether the fraudster  posing  as Mrs B was 
indeed her. Gain Credit  said their checks consider  the name against the bank account 
provided, but our investigators conversation with the bank in question  confirmed the account 
wasnt in Mrs Bs name. And so it seems the checks Gain Credit says it would normally  do, 
and should have done in this case, either werent carried out or the results  were ignored.  
Gain Credit say they dont  ask for bank statements due data protection,  so they dont have  
documentation to verify the loan. But I cant see that they contacted  Mrs B either  her 
correct address had been given so this could have been used to identify  the fraud much 
sooner. And importantly,  Gain Credit told us a second application was received in Mrs Bs 
name twelve days after the loan was approved  but that this was rejected  and algorithms 
flagged this as possible fraud. Again, had Mrs B been contacted at this point the earlier  fraud 
could have been spotted sooner. So from what Ive seen, I think Gain  Credit could have 
done more before approving the loan as well as after,  giving the second application.
Turning to what happened after Mrs B found  out about the loan, its clear  from the file that 
she called  Gain Credit  to flag the problem on 13 March 2018. She also sent them an email.  
They looked  into her concerns and emailed her two days later to confirm  theyd asked for her 
credit file to be amended.  Because  of their quick response,  Id say they handled this 
reasonably.
The delay in the loan being  removed from Mrs Bs credit file can be attributed to the credit 
reference agency, not Gain Credit.  And I have  seen the agency  has addressed the problem 
and compensated  Mrs B for the mortgage implications she faced. So I dont find Gain  Credit 
responsible here.
Overall, my feeling is that had better checks been  done from the outset Mrs B wouldnt have 
had the trouble and worry associated with this matter. She was very surprised to hear about  
the loan on her file, and I have seen that she did her best to rectify the problem  while under 
the stress  of her re-mortgaging application. 
So although  I think Gain Credit acted reasonably given the speed at which they effectively 
agreed to cancel this loan, I think the earlier lack of checks left Mrs B much more  exposed 
than she should  have been and that indications of fraud with the second application could 
have been handled better.  So Im not making  a finding on whether Gain Credits  systems or 
processes are sufficient  overall  rather, that on this occasion, they could have done more. 
Because of this, Im planning on asking  Gain Credit to pay Mrs B £300 to recognise  the 
trouble and concern they caused. I know Mrs B did feel more  compensation was due, given 
the re-mortgage repercussions, but as that has been addressed by the credit reference 
agency I make no further award.
Both Mrs B and Gain Credit  agreed  with my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional decision was sent to Mrs B and Gain Credit and both parties accepted  it. As 
no further arguments were raised,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions, so my final decision is along  the same lines as above.
Ref: DRN71197863my final decision
My final decision is that Gain Credit LLC could have done more to protect Mrs B from the 
fraud. Because of this, I uphold  this complaint and direct Gain Credit  LLC to pay Mrs B £300. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7119786