K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands for 
short) turned down  her claim  under her pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs W has Lifetime pet insurance with Red Sands. In September  2018 she made  a claim 
for the vets treatment  of her dog for some  sort of digestive complaint suffered in July and 
August 2018.
Red Sands  turned down Mrs Ws claim. It said the digestive  complaint was a pre-existing 
condition because there had been  similar issues in December 2017/January  2018 with the 
dog before the policy started. Red Sands also applied  a policy exclusion for claims related to 
the dogs digestive systems backdated to the policys start date. Mrs W has argued  the 
previous digestive  complaint is unrelated. So she came to us.
Our investigator thought that Red Sands had acted fairly in declining  the claim. Mrs W has 
asked for an Ombudsmans decision so the complaints come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint . 
Red Sands  and Mrs W dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I must decide what  is 
most likely to have happened, and having  done  so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Red Sands exclusion  says it wont pay for costs relating to an illness  that results from 
clinical signs  a pet had before the start of the policy. So the policy  terms are clear that 
theres no cover for pre-existing conditions.  So if the condition  Mrs W was claiming for was 
already present when she took out her policy, it isnt covered.
The commencement date of the insurance was in May 2018. Red Sands points to the dogs 
veterinary records which show that in January 2018 the dog was examined by the vet and 
had been vomiting,  lethargic and of variable appetite. The notes say suspect either dietary 
or pancreatitis and points to an injection and tablets  being administered. The tablets were 
given for the treatment  of stomach  complaints  and the injection  to deal with the vomiting.
In July 2018 the dog was again  examined  by the vets who noted  vomiting  and lethargy and 
administered the same tablets and injection as previously. Similarly the notes show 
suspicion of pancreatitis.
Mrs W has pointed  to what her vet has said.  And I can see the vet has said that the previous 
illness shouldnt be linked to the sickness being  claimed for. But considering  the veterinary 
notes its clear that the dog suffered two bouts of digestive  issues  which were treated in the 
same way. And although Mrs W points to a check-up in March  2018 where the dog wasnt  
showing similar symptoms it is clear the vet was concerned about weight loss in the dog. 
And although it has now suspected that the July 2018 issue  was due to an abnormal gall 
bladder (as Mrs W has described) Im not persuaded that the vet has shown that the 
December 2017/January  2018 symptoms werent  a clinical  sign of that. I also dont think the 
Ref: DRN79228582vets representations here give much  rationale  as to why these bouts of illness  arent linked. 
So I dont  think they are persuasive to me compared to the veterinary notes from the times 
the dog was taken to the vet. And clearly as Mrs W took the dog to the vets in January 2018  
she considered  the dog sufficiently ill to require treatment for some sort of condition. And 
although the specific condition wasnt diagnosed at that time doesnt  mean  there wasnt  a 
condition presenting clinical signs as per the wording of the exclusion.
So, on balance, I think it was fair for Red Sands  to conclude that the two episodes of 
sickness were  the same.  So I dont think Red Sands has acted unfairly in applying  the 
exclusion here and thus not paying  the claim.
I appreciate Mrs W thinks that Red Sands decision to apply a retrospective  exclusion is 
unfair. This retrospective  exclusion isnt the reason the claim was rejected.  However  I think 
its worth  noting that the paperwork Mrs W received when she took the policy made clear 
she should call Red Sands if the dog had been  treated  for conditions (other  than normal  
vaccinations). Ive seen the paperwork  and I think the question  and what  to do are clear.  So I 
dont think Red Sands did anything wrong  here.  And considering what has happened I dont 
think its decision to apply  the retrospective exclusion is unfair either  as it has the power to do 
so under the terms of the policy (term  1.2.4).  
Lastly I should add that, contrary to Mrs Ws assertion that when she called Red Sands prior 
to making her claim,  it did make clear that claims are reviewed before being decided. It didnt 
say at that time it would  certainly  be paid.
All in all I think Red Sands decision to decline  the claim is fair. As a consequence it doesnt 
have to do anything  further in respect of this claim.  I appreciate  Mrs W will be disappointed 
with my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I do not uphold  this complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7922858