K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. Ms P 
says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading  as Egg at the time,  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Egg have provided evidence to show the PPI was taken  out online and has sent me 
copies of the screen shots it says Ms P wouldve seen at the time  and Ive seen no 
reason to doubt this. These  include equally prominent yes and no options for PPI. Egg 
has told us that Ms P wouldnt have been  able to continue  onto the next screen without 
making a decision  on whether  or not to take out the cover.
Ive also seen a copy of the applications  report which recorded the answers  Ms P gave 
online and this shows a Y in the box for PPI. But I think  this box wouldve  had an N in it 
if Ms P had ticked no to the PPI. So based on everything Ive seen I think  Egg made it 
clear that Ms P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this.
As the card and PPI were taken  out online and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence  
Ms P spoke to anyone  during  this process, I think this is likely to have been a non-
advised sale. So as Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Ms P it didnt have to check  if the 
policy was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms P got the information  she 
needed to decide  if the PPI was right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable and as Ms P had limited savings and sick pay at the time,  I think  it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Canada Square Operations  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms P. But Canada Square  Operations Limited has paid back  some  of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms Ps trustee  in bankruptcy because:  
-Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Ms P about 
that. Because Canada Square Operations Limited didnt tell Ms P, that was 
unfair. 
Ref: DRN72790532-To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I 
think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms P has said - including what  she said about being 
denied a claim when she was made redundant. But in this decision  Ive considered 
whether or not the PPI was mis-sold to Ms P in 2001.  So Ive not looked  into the 
circumstances of her attempted claim. And from the evidence  Ive seen, and for all the 
reasons Ive stated above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to her. If Ms P would like 
to complain about  her denied  claim,  she should  contact  Canada Square  Operations 
Limited in this first instance. And so these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms Ps trustee in 
bankruptcy any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7279053