K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the sale of a legal expenses insurance policy by Swinton Group Ltd.
background
Mr T has a legal dispute concerning a piece of woodland  he apparently owns.  He made  a 
legal expenses claim to the insurer which was declined on the basis  that the woodland did 
not form part of Mr Ts principal home. 
Mr T complained about the insurer and one of my ombudsman colleagues issued a final 
decision on that matter.  He upheld Mr Ts complaint and our investigation into that matter  
has concluded. 
The issue  in this complaint is that Mr T says he informed Swinton about the woodland and 
so expected it to be covered by the policy Swinton sold him.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  about Swinton and found  that the policy 
was sold in 2014 on a non-advised basis meaning Swinton didnt offer advice or give a 
recommendation. She noted that Mr T bought the land after he had taken out the policy  and 
Mr Ts wife had called  Swinton in December 2014 enquiring about liability insurance for the 
woodland. The policy  renewed in branch in 2015 and it was at this point Mrs T (on Mr Ts 
behalf) apparently provided information about  the woodland.
The investigator explained her opinion that the legal  expenses policy wasnt mis-sold in 2014 
because at that point Mr T didnt  own the woodland and so there was no expectation  it would 
be covered. Mr Ts wife sent the investigator a statement about her recollections of what  
happened. In summary  Mrs Ts recollection was that Swinton assured Mr T that they had 
public liability insurance in place for the woodland.  The investigator acknowledged  given the 
passage of time that there wasnt any certainty about what  had actually happened. She said 
the call in late 2014 about woodland liability insurance had been transferred to Swintons  
commercial department but there  were no further notes. 
In summary,  the investigator didnt think Mrs Ts statement  changed the outcome as at best 
she could only say that Swinton had given advice about public liability.  The investigator said 
public liability cover was different  to the legal  expenses  policy  and as such  wouldnt have a 
bearing on the legal expenses claim. 
Mr T couldnt agree with the investigator and its apparent that the issue of mis-sale is a 
secondary issue for Mr T as he stated in one of his latter replies  to the investigator, The 
matter of Mis-Selling is only a back up by default .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  for this complaint against Swinton is whether or not it mis-sold the legal expenses 
policy to Mr T. And the basis  for this stems from the fact that the insurer  (a separate  firm and 
legal entity from Swinton) declined a claim as it said the piece of land Mr T bought in late 
2014 didnt form part of his principal home. 
Ref: DRN77145002For the avoidance of doubt I am not dealing with or commenting on what  the insurer  did; my 
ombudsman colleague  has already  done that in a final decision. I will solely decide the issue  
of whether Swinton mis-sold the policy.
Mr T purchased legal expenses insurance  and home insurance from Swinton in 2014 and he 
had it in subsequent years. From Swintons notes  in December 2014 its apparent that Mrs T 
called to discuss woodland liability insurance  and was transferred to a different department. 
No such cover was purchased. That to me suggests  that she was aware her existing legal 
expenses policy didnt  cover public liability for the woodland area. 
At renewal in 2015 Mr T tells us that his wife visited the Swinton branch and left with the 
understanding that the woodland was covered under  the added-on household insurance 
legal cover. But theres no evidence to support this other than Mrs T has a recollection  of 
being told they were  covered for public liability. 
Having considered everything  very carefully  I am not satisfied  it is more  likely than not Mr T 
(or Mrs T acting on his behalf) was led to believe the piece of woodland  formed  part of his 
home and benefitted  from public liability insurance under his legal expenses  policy.  The legal 
expenses policy was sold on a non-advised basis and as a request from Mr T for legal  
expenses cover. The policy doesnt  represent  that it will cover public liability. In any case,  the 
point Mr T relies  on is that at renewal  in 2015 Mrs T left Swintons office  believing the 
woodland was covered  but Im not satisfied there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate  this 
on the balance  of probabilities.
In summary,  the legal expenses policy is clear that there is cover for property protection for 
nuisance and trespass claims. And it also makes  it clear that there  is no cover for any 
building or land other than the principal  home.  I am not persuaded that it was mis-sold  for 
the following;
the policy meets a variety of legal expenses  needs 
no specific needs were stated by Mr T
the policy is sufficiently clear about what  is and is not covered such that Mr T could 
make an informed decision about its purchase
Mr T was eligible  to benefit from the policy in a number of different ways 
Insufficient evidence  to show Swinton misrepresented that this policy had public 
liability cover  for the woodland.
I note that as a result  of my ombudsman  colleagues decision Mr Ts claim is being  reviewed 
again by the insurer. For the avoidance  of doubt Im not persuaded Swinton misled Mr T. But 
even if it did, the remedy  I would likely direct is for the premiums to be refunded, or for 
Swinton to instruct lawyers to assess the reasonable prospects of success  of Mr Ts legal 
dispute. Hes now getting that done as a result  of my colleagues decision and so hes in the 
position he would be even if I upheld this complaint. 
Home insurance policies sometimes provide cover if a visitor is injured at the insured 
address and this is a form of public liability insurance. But in this case Mr Ts home policy  
was distinct and separate to his legal expenses policy and the wording of that policy is not 
part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77145003my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7714500