K821x#15complaint
Mrs Vs unhappy with the way U K Insurance  Limited (trading as Churchill) has handled a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy.
background
Mrs V made a claim as a named driver  on an UKI motor insurance  policy.  Shes unhappy 
that it didnt investigate the claim  and blamed her straight away,  taking the other partys 
word. She also says she was spoken to rudely and didnt get the service  she paid for. She 
wants the payment  she made to UKI to be refunded and compensation.
UKI said in its final response that it agreed the first call Mrs V made couldve been handled 
better. It had initially said the claim would be settled as a fault claim.  But it didnt review 
further information sent in for nine months. Once  it did so the other insurer accepted liability. 
This outcome wouldve  been received a lot earlier if it had reviewed the correspondence  
earlier. It also accepted  it had failed to keep  Mrs V updated. To acknowledge the stress and 
inconvenience caused it was sending her £200 compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
Having listened  to the first call Mrs V made to UKI he doesnt agree the operator was 
rude. But the operator was disengaged, unfriendly, lacking in empathy  and 
interrupted Mrs V a number of times. Despite Mrs V explaining  what had happened 
and that she had been hit by the other driver, the operator  said it was the other way 
round. Mrs V was continuously held to be at fault without any investigation or attempt 
to understand  the facts or any mention of CCTV.
A second agent attempted to understand the scenario but incorrectly assumed that at 
best it would  be a 50/50 split liability decision again without any real investigation but 
with mention of CCTV. Other calls were handled  reasonably but Mrs V wasnt kept up 
to date unless  she contacted UKI. And if Mrs V hadnt stood her ground  she wouldve 
likely unfairly ended up with a fault claim  on her record. 
This matter wouldve caused Mrs V some upset and inconvenience. UKIs offer of 
£200 compensation for this doesnt fully acknowledge  the various shortfalls in its 
service. It should pay her another £100 for this, making a total payment  of £300 
compensation.
UKI doesnt agree. It says in summary  that there  was only a week  between the first and 
second calls and it believes  the second  call was acceptable. The information Mrs V supplied  
allowed it to review matters. There was a large period of inactivity but Mrs V didnt  call it. Any 
loss of expectation on the policy was corrected in a week and wasnt  spread out over the 
length of the claim. It accepts it absolutely got things wrong at the start. But Mrs V was 
aware within a week  that it would change  its stance. The £200 compensation already 
awarded is sufficient.
The adjudicator noted that a call after the first week  suggested Mrs V could still be held at 
fault. Mrs V also wasnt promptly told of UKIs change  of stance. She was advised of this 
some months later. During  the period of inactivity Mrs V also felt a lack of confidence and 
drove less. This all warrants a total of £300  compensation.
Ref: DRN70299692UKI doesnt agree and says this is based  on what is hypothetically likely. But this is 
unfounded. No further compensation  is warranted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only thing that remains for me to consider is what  a fair and reasonable award of 
compensation is in this case.
UKI has rightly accepted  that it couldve dealt with Mrs V better. The operator handling the 
first call she made to it advising of the claim didnt handle her well or acceptably.  The 
adjudicator summed  this up and UKI has said it accepts it absolutely got things wrong at the 
start. 
I dont think UKI investigated  this claim or considered  liability  reasonably to start with 
particularly in the first call and also to an extent  in the second  one. That wasnt  fair on Mrs V 
and wouldve caused her distress and frustration.  Although Mrs V was largely handled better 
in later calls I think the uncertainty about what was going to happen in the claim hung over 
her for more than the one week UKI suggests.  There was also a long period when the claim 
was inactive and I think it wouldve  been reasonable for UKI to have tried to progress 
matters more in this time and to have kept Mrs V better informed of the situation.
Overall I think  Mrs V wouldve  experienced considerable  distress when she was first on the 
phone to UKI given  the way she was talked  to, dealt with and the way it approached 
assessing liability. And although  later calls were  generally handled better there wouldve 
never the less been some  ongoing distress as matters unfolded. It seems from what  Mrs V 
has said that she quickly and understandably lost faith in UKIs dealing with the claim and 
liability. And she appears to have  also questioned  her own driving  ability in that time. I also 
think not being updated and told of what was happening, even in any period of claim 
inactivity, wouldve added to her inconvenience and upset.
UKI has offered  Mrs V £200 compensation. Our adjudicator felt this was a little low and 
recommended this amount should  be increased by £100 to total of £300. UKI says that is too 
much but having  taken  everything into account, including  the levels of award we make, I 
agree the adjudicators recommendation is fair and reasonable in this case.
Overall, although I recognise  UKIs strength of feeling, I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right U K Insurance  Limited  (trading as Churchill)  
should, if it hasnt  done so already, pay Mrs V a total of £300 compensation.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs V accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs V 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN70299693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7029969