K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the lack of due diligence undertaken  by Hornbuckle Mitchell - for 
which Embark  Services  Limited  (ESL) now takes  responsibility -  when it allowed his Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  investment into unlisted company shares.  He says that 
he should never have been  allowed to make these investments  because  they were  high risk 
and he invested  a large proportion of his pension funds. He also complains about the lack of 
customer service  and the SIPP fees he was charged.     
background
Mr F made two investments in unlisted company  shares within his SIPP.  The first (which I 
will call Company A) was an investment of £60,000 in 2011.  The second  (Company  B) was 
an investment of £150,000, also in 2011. Mr F says his pension  was originally worth about  
£260,000. As I understand  it, Company A has failed and the investment in Company B has 
very little value. 
ESL considered  Mr Fs complaint. It said, in summary it:
Said it was the responsibility of Mr F and his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) to 
assess the suitability  of the SIPP  and investments. It is not responsible for the 
suitability of those  investments  or their performance.  
Referred to guidance issued by the Financial Services  Authority/Financial Conduct  
Authority (FSA/FCA) about what its obligations were.  It said it was not responsible for 
the advice given by third parties. 
Said it was not party to the advice given to Mr F and it did not see it. It did undertake 
due diligence  checks to ensure  the investments were suitable  to be held within a 
SIPP. 
Did issue pension valuations in 2015 and 2016  and informed Mr Fs IFA in 2015 that 
Company A had been liquidated. It said that it is reasonable to assume  that Mr Fs 
IFA would have  told him of this and if it did not, then it cannot be held responsible  for 
that. Furthermore the 2015 valuation lists the value of Company A as £1 and that 
liquidators had been appointed. This was sent to Mr F and his IFA. The 2016  
valuation does  not list the Company A investment - as it had failed. 
Set out Its fees and charges at application stage and it applied those fees correctly. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint. He did not believe it should be 
upheld. He thought that ESL has carried out adequate due diligence checks  on both 
Company A and Company  B. And ESL had warned  Mr F about  the risks of investing.  He 
thought that Mr F was likely aware of the sum he was investing and the risks he was taking. 
He also thought ESL was entitled to charge the fees applied to Mr Fs SIPP. 
Mr F requested that an ombudsman review his complaint.  He asked that the ombudsman  
consider in particular the high percentage he was allowed to invest in a start-up  company 
and the lack of duty of care of ESL not to chase the provision of a share certificate from 
2013, despite asking for the payment of three years of fees it took after his account had 
been closed. 
Ref: DRN71050632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this was a Hornbuckle Mitchell SIPP at the time of the events complained about, as 
ESL now takes responsibility for those actions  I will refer to ESL as the SIPP  
operator/trustee in this decision.  
due diligence
Mr F applied  for his SIPP in 2011.  On the application form his financial adviser is noted as 
True Bearing Ltd and it is confirmed that Mr F has received advice from this party. It is 
indicated that the SIPP will receive a transfer from a personal pension. 
ESL was instructed to make an investment of £60,000 in Company A shares in 2011.  On the 
ESL application to make the investment were included a number of risks or warnings such  
as:
Investing in unlisted shares  is high risk and they have a limited  market
That Mr F was not replying on ESL to provide any sort of advice or confirmation that 
the shares were  an acceptable investment. 
Unlisted shares are unregulated investments and the protections under the Financial 
Services and Market  Act and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme do not 
apply.
That he understands that if the investment represents a significant proportion  of the 
pension that security in retirement  might be in jeopardy.
That he understands there is no established stockmarket for selling the shares.  
Mr F indicated on the document that he had read those risks and had not received any 
financial advice regarding the purchase. 
Company A was a registered  company at Companies House. The financial statements  for 
Company A confirmed  the nature of the business,  that it was trading  and set out its profit and 
loss account (a small loss was recorded for the previous financial year). 
ESL sent a letter to Mr F on 11 May 2011  which acknowledged  Mr Fs instruction to make  
the investment.  It said that it normally only accepted instructions where the member  has 
received financial  advice  however it was prepared to make the investment on the basis  of 
the attached notice. This notice requested signed audited  accounts and an independent 
valuation of the shares. 
An independent valuation  report on Company  A was supplied.  That report was very positive 
about the business and its profitability. It also confirmed  the business  had been trading for 
some time and was well-positioned for the future. There were no concerns about the 
business going forward.  Audited accounts were  also supplied. 
Ref: DRN71050633Mr F also requested ESL make an investment of £150,000 in Company B in 2011. The SIPP  
application form recorded that he came  to know about these shares,  through  a mutual 
friend. The application  contained the same  risk warnings as the application for Company  A. 
Mr F again indicated on the document that he had read those risks and had not received any 
financial advice regarding the purchase. 
Confirmation was obtained that the company  was registered at Companies House and was 
in the process  of opening a company bank account.  Company Articles of Association  were 
obtained as well as an independent valuation. As the company had not yet traded it was 
stated that this would only be a guide.  It was indicated that Mr F would be involved in the 
business and had experience of the nature of the business. It was set out that the outlook for 
the business was positive   albeit the business  had not yet traded.  
Mr F in a letter of 17 May 2011 said that:
I can confirm that the reason  for my purchase  of a 19.99%  shareholding in (Company B) is 
that I have  been  informed  this is the maximum percentage shareholding that I can hold 
within my Private  Pension.
I feel that this investment  provides an excellent  opportunity for me to increase funds within
my Pension which will fund my future retirement.
In accordance with my duty under section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA), I must determine  this complaint  by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case .  When considering what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  Im required to take into account  relevant 
considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance and 
standards; and codes  of practice.  Im also required to take into account,  where  appropriate, 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the time. 
I consider the following  to be relevant  considerations in this complaint.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
clients and treat them fairly.
In R on the application of British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority & 
Anor [2011] EWHM 999 (Admin) (20 April 2011) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
Ref: DRN71050634but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
In the recent decision of Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman 
Service Limited [2018] EWHC 2878  (Admin) (30 October 2018), Jacobs J said of section  228 
FSMA:
Under that section,  it is for the Ombudsman  to decide what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the case.  Here, [the ombudsman who issued the decision in 
the case that was the subject of judicial review] paid regard (as DISP  3.6.4R requires  
him to do) to the relevant regulators rules, namely Principles 2 and 6. The decision 
as to how those  Principles apply "in all the circumstances of the case" must  be a 
matter for him
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
time. They provide  the overarching framework for regulation and must always be complied 
with by businesses.  As such, I need  to have regard to them  when deciding  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Rule 2.1.1 in the Code of Business Sourcebook  (COBS) is also relevant and says that:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
The FSA and the FCA have made  a number  of publications which remind SIPP operators of 
their obligations  and set out how they might  achieve the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. 
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2009 (the 2009 report).
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2012 (the 2012 report).
A guide for Self-Invested Personal  Pensions  (SIPP) operators published by the 
FCA in October 2013 (the 2013 guidance). 
A letter from the FCAs Director of Supervision sent to the CEOs of all SIPP  
operators in July 2014 (the 2014 Dear CEO letter).
Ref: DRN71050635I think these are all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint. The first report  was 
published before  Mr F invested.  The next three were after but relate to obligations that 
existed at the time of the investments. The following are some  relevant sections of these 
documents.
The 2009  report  included  the following:
We are concerned by a relatively widespread  misunderstanding among SIPP 
operators that they bear little or no responsibility for the quality of the SIPP  business 
that they administer,  because  advice  is the responsibility of other parties,  for example 
Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs)
We are very clear  that SIPP operators,  regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are 
obliged to ensure  the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS  purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes  clients
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures  and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify  possible  instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable  SIPPs
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed  and suggestions  we have made  to 
firms:
[]
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced  the business.  This would 
enable the firm to seek clarification,  e.g. from the client  or the adviser,  if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
The 2012  report  included  the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business, states a firm must conduct  its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Some SIPP operators were unable to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate 
due diligence  on the investments held by their members  or the introducers  who use 
their schemes, to identify  potential risks to their members  or to the firms  itself.  In 
some firms this was made worse  by an over-reliance on third parties  to conduct due 
diligence on behalf of the operator. In some cases  this has resulted in taxable 
investments being  inadvertently held, and monies  invested in potentially fraudulent 
investments.
The 2013  guidance included the following:
Ref: DRN71050636We have now concluded the second review of Self-Invested Personal  Pension 
(SIPP) operators we have  conducted  since April 2007, when the activity of 
administering SIPPs became regulated by our predecessor regulator, the FSA, under 
the permission  of establishing, operating or winding up a personal pension scheme. 
The review  looked  at: 
 the extent to which SIPP operator  firms  are adhering to our Principles and Rules  
 the current  risks associated with the sector 
 actions  taken  by firms  to mitigate  those identified risks, and 
 the level of further work we need  to undertake to ensure a well-run, sustainable 
sector 
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms  
further guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These  are not new or 
amended requirements,  but a reminder  of regulatory  responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007. 
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly.

Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain  appropriate and sufficient  due diligence (for example,  checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate  for 
personal pension  schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
[]
ensuring all third-party  due diligence that the firm uses or relies  on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include  having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting  the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks  clearly  identify those instances  that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business,  or to undertake further investigations  
such as instances  of potential pension liberation,  investments  that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard  investments  that 
have not been approved by the firm 
The Annex to the 2014 Dear CEO letter included the following: 
Due diligence on non-standard investment business
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Business requires all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  SIPP operators should ensure that they 
conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence, for example, assessing 
that assets allowed into a scheme are appropriate for a pension scheme. Our 
thematic review found that most SIPP operators failed to undertake adequate due 
diligence on high-risk, speculative and non-standard investments despite being  
aware of the Financial  Services Authority (FSA) guidance originally published  in 2012 
which clarified our expectations  of firm conduct.
Ref: DRN71050637Our review assessed due diligence processes in these five key areas: 
correctly establishing  and understanding the nature  of an investment 
ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation  
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable) 
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and 
ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous investors have 
received income  if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy  etc.) 
Please note that the due diligence necessary  for individual investments  may vary 
depending on the circumstances, and the five areas highlighted above are not 
exhaustive. 
We found that most firms  do not have the expertise or resources to assess  this type 
of business, but were  still allowing transactions  to go ahead. This increases the risk 
that a pension scheme may become a vehicle for high risk and speculative 
investments that are not secure assets,  many  of which could  be scams. It is not 
acceptable for firms to put consumers at risk this way. 
Although our thematic  review focussed on non-standard investments, it is important 
to note that guidance on due diligence applies to all investments. 
Findings from our review  included firms  failing  to: 
understand the nature of an investment, especially contracts  for rights to 
future income, and sale and repurchase agreements  
check that money was being  paid to legitimate businesses, and 
to independently verify that assets  were real and secure, or that investment 
schemes operated  as claimed 
We found that, typically, firms had difficulty completing due diligence  for non-
standard overseas investment schemes  where firms did not have access to local 
qualified legal professionals or accountants. Also, since the last review  of SIPP 
operators, we noted an increase in the number of opaque investment structures,  
such as special purpose vehicles and limited  companies, created to pool investment 
monies and finance  other businesses. Firms had difficulty establishing where  money 
was being sent, and whether underlying investment propositions were genuine. 
We also found that many SIPP operators  accepted  investments  into their schemes 
without adequate consideration of how investments could be valued  or realised. 
Finally, we found many firms continuing  to rely on marketing and promotional 
material produced  by investment providers as part of due diligence processes, 
despite previous  guidance  highlighting the need for independent assessment of 
investments.
Ref: DRN71050638So looking  at the Principles, COBS 2.1.1, the 2009 and 2012 reports, the 2013  guidance and 
2014 Dear CEO letter, I think its clear  that SIPP operators have a duty to safeguard against 
facilitating SIPPs that are inappropriate or detrimental to clients. And SIPP  operators,  acting 
fairly and in their clients best interests,  should undertake certain  inquiries arising from the 
nature or quality  of the introduction and the investment proposed  before determining  whether 
to accept or decline it into a SIPP. 
This doesnt mean deciding what is fair and reasonable involves only asking  whether  ESL 
did as the regulator suggested  in these documents. The reports, guidance  and letter gave 
non-exhaustive guidance  of good  practice. They  didnt say the suggestions given  were  the 
limit of what  a SIPP operator should do. As the Annex to the 2014 Dear  CEO letter  notes, 
what should be done to meet such regulatory  obligations depends on the circumstances. 
And it was ultimately  for a business  to decide for itself how to meet  its obligations. It 
shouldnt have been reliant  on the regulator to tell it what to do. 
But, my duty is to reach a decision which I consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  In reaching that decision I have considered  what the regulator  
thinks the regulatory responsibilities of SIPP operators to be and I have considered what  I 
think amounted to good industry practice at the time.  
Its also important to point  out that although some  of the publications Ive listed  above were  
made after the events  subject  to complaint, the Principles that underpin  them existed 
throughout. So, a business must  always conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2) and take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3) and pay 
due regard to the interests  of its clients and treat them  fairly (Principle 6). The other 
publications Ive listed in this section provide a reminder that the Principles apply and give 
examples of the kinds of things  or good  industry practice the regulator expected   a SIPP  
operator might do to ensure it is treating its customer fairly and reasonably and produce the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the 
regulators expectations of what SIPP operators  should be doing  also goes some way to 
indicate what I consider  amounts to good  industry  practice.
Its also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports, the 2013 guidance and the Dear 
CEO letter that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good  practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some  industry participants understanding of how the 
standards shaped  what  was expected  of SIPP  operators changed  over time, the standards 
themselves did not change. And whilst  limited  checks of investments may have been 
common industry practice, I dont consider that to be good  industry  practice at the time.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think ESLs duty as a SIPP  operator was to 
treat Mr F fairly and to act in his best interests and its duties included taking reasonable 
steps to at least: 
ensure that it understood how the investment would operate;
ensure that it did not accept into a SIPP an investment that is likely to give rise to tax 
liabilities within the scheme  (such as unauthorised payments);
ensure that a proposed underlying investment for a SIPP is a genuine asset  and is 
not part of a fraud or a scam  or pensions liberation;
Ref: DRN71050639ensure that the investment could be valued  and is realisable given the purpose 
behind the investment  (i.e. to provide an income in retirement).
And I consider these  steps to also be indicative of good industry practice at the time. 
Having said all of the above, I reiterate the starting point is that Im required to make a 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. This is 
wider than the rules  and guidance that have been issued by the regulator.
what due diligence checks did ESL carry out?
I have set out earlier the due diligence checks that ESL carried  out. It did obtain  confirmation 
that these were legitimate investments in properly registered companies, one with a 
significant profitable trading history and another  that had not traded but had a good outlook. 
It also obtained independent third party reports on the nature and status  of those 
businesses.   
I think the investments  themselves would be fairly described as high risk and speculative,  
being investments  in unlisted company shares. The companies themselves were very small 
and one had effectively no trading history. Mr F invested the majority of the value of his SIPP 
in these two companies  and so, as he says, he was taking a very high risk with his pension  
funds. ESL should have  taken these factors into account when accepting the investment 
instructions. 
Having said that, the nature of a SIPP is that it allows  the individual  to make their own 
investment decisions  and choose  from a very wide class of investments. It is clear that Mr F 
wished to make these investments  he has said he was a willing investor. Furthermore  he 
was actively involved in the larger of the two investments and purchased shares  to the value 
of almost 20% of the company. ESL set out the principal risks of investing in such  unlisted  
company shares.  
ESL has confirmed  that it has no record of any other of its clients having invested Company 
A where  the introducing agent was True Bearing.  For Company  B, two other clients that 
were introduced by True Bearing invested in that companys  shares. So it is not that ESL 
was receiving the volume of such investment instructions that should  have necessarily  
caused it to have concern about True Bearings  involvement.  
My view is that Mr F wished to make  these investments and was likely aware of the risk. He 
was aware of the amount  of his pension he was investing and the nature of the companies  in 
which he was investing. Even if it could be said that ESL should have specifically warned 
against Mr F making the investments  given the risks, I believe in these specific set of 
circumstances he would  have still invested  and wished to invest.  I do not believe, give the 
particular facts of this case,  that it should  have declined to make  the investments  that Mr F 
instructed. These were, general  speaking,  legitimate  investments that Mr F could make 
within his SIPP.
As I have said, I am required to make a decision which  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And I dont believe in these circumstances that the complaint should be 
upheld or ESL should compensate Mr F for his investment losses.  Those  losses are 
unfortunate, but ESL is not liable for them.
Ref: DRN710506310Company A liquidation
I have seen an email from ESL to True Bearing  dated 5 November 2015. This notifies it that 
Company A has been liquidated and that the investment is now valued at zero. 
The 2015  SIPP  annual  pension valuation lists Company A shares with a value of £1. The 
2016 valuation  does not include  Company A. ESL says Mr F was issued  with a copy  of both 
these valuations.
Bearing this in mind  I believe  that ESL did act reasonably in informing the registered  IFA for 
the SIPP that the investment had been liquidated. It could  reasonably  expect the IFA to pass  
this information  to Mr F. Furthermore the valuation of 2015 did make  it reasonably  clear  that 
the investment  was essentially worthless. 
ESL fees and charges
ESL can apply  fees and charges for administering the SIPP. That is not affected by the 
performance of the investments the SIPP holds. The fees it would charge were set out when 
the SIPP application was made and I have not seen that they were applied  incorrectly. 
It is not my role to decide what a SIPP provider should charge for its services.  Bearing in 
mind that those charges do not seem  to me to be onerous or unwarranted I do not uphold  
this point of complaint. 
I do note that it seems that there  was a delay in obtaining a share certificate  but in the 
circumstances of this case I do not believe that is material or it means that ESL should not 
charge legitimate fees. I do not believe this is a significant matter  that means ESL should 
compensate Mr F in some way. 
I note that ESL has said that when Mr F entered into pension  drawdown in 2016  it incorrectly 
told him at that point  that his SIPP would  be closed. But the SIPP  still held Aerosol shares  
despite that holding being valued at nil. The SIPP  could not be closed until the shares were 
sold or the company wound up. 
However ESL has confirmed that fees have  not been charged since December 2016 and 
three years annual fees were not charged  in advance.  There is indication of a fee being 
charged in February  2016 in respect  of fees which  were due in 2014 and 2015 but not 
collected until 2016. I have not seen evidence of fees being charged  for the period  following 
2016. I have also not seen evidence  of the incorrect collection  of fees.  
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Ref: DRN710506311David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7105063