K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
Miss H bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint because:
 Miss H ticked  a box on the credit card application to indicate  she wanted PPI, which  
was described as an optional feature. So I think Lloyds made Miss H aware that she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss H, and it seems to have been right for her based  
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Although she had some sick pay 
and savings, I dont  think this made the PPI unsuitable. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Miss H doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
any sick pay and savings she had. And help from family isnt guaranteed  as their 
circumstances can change. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Miss Hs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ref: DRN72106642ombudsman
Ref: DRN7210664