K821x#15Complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit International (trading as Sunny)  shouldnt have given him his 
running credit facility and instalment loans because  as soon  as he repaid a loan he took 
another one. 
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
26 March 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr H told us that he 
accepted the findings  of the provisional decision.  Sunny  didnt respond to the provisional 
decision. 
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H accepted the provisional decision and Sunny  didnt respond  with any further 
comments or evidence it wanted  me to consider, I see no reason to depart  from the findings  
that I outlined  in my provisional decision. 
In summary,  I think Sunny didnt make an error by providing the running  credit facility and 
the first instalment loan to Mr H, I did think Sunny shouldnt have provided loans 3 and 4.
putting things right  what I think  Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file about loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN79612442My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79612443EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit  International  (trading as Sunny)  shouldnt have given  him his running credit 
facility and instalment loans because as soon as he repaid a loan he took another  one. 
Background
Mr H was given one running  credit facility  and three instalment loans  from Sunny between March 
2014 and August  2015.  A summary of Mr Hs borrowing  based on the information provided  to us from 
Sunny can be found below. 
loan number loan amount received dateactual repayment 
date
1* £500.00 17/03/2014 28/04/2015
2 £300.00 16/02/2015 08/06/2015
3 £300.00 30/04/2015 08/06/2015
4 £300.00 25/08/2015 10/09/2018
The first loan  was a running  credit account  where  a consumer could either request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. Each withdrawal  was 
required to be repaid in five monthly instalments. 
Sunny reviewed Mr Hs complaint and it didnt  think it had done anything  wrong in providing these 
loans. Mr H, unhappy  with this response brought his complaint  to our service. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Mr Hs complaint. He thought the checks  Sunny carried  out before 
granting this facility were  proportionate. But he thought Sunny should have stopped  Mr H taking 
further drawdowns on the running  credit  facility from 30 September 2014  because he wasnt using the 
facility as Sunny  had intended. He also thought Sunny shouldnt have approved any further 
drawdowns or loans 2 - 4. 
Mr H appears to have agreed with the adjudicators  recommendation.
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators opinion. Sunny says in relation to the running credit  facility 
that Mr H only used  it for a period of seven months. Sunny says it completed sufficient checks  to 
show it that the running credit facility  was affordable for Mr H. And Mr H was committed to repaying a 
fairly small  portion of his income  towards these  loans. So it didnt think it had done anything  wrong. 
These points  didnt change the adjudicators view.  As no agreement was reached, the case has now 
been passed  to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered. 
Having reviewed  Mr Hs case I dont agree  with the adjudicators assessment about  the running  credit 
facility or the first instalment  loan. Although, I do think Sunny was wrong to have  provided loans three 
and four. And Ive explained my reasons below.  
Our adjudicator believed that Sunny hadnt  made an error when it granted the facility  and 
Mr H didnt disagree with this. I no longer  consider there to be an outstanding dispute about whether it 
was right or wrong for Sunny to have granted the facility.  
Ref: DRN79612444As our adjudicator  explained, he felt Sunny  shouldnt have approved any further drawdowns from 30 
September 2014. However, looking at the way that Mr H used  the facility  up to this point, I dont think 
it was wrong of Sunny to have allowed him to continue to drawdown. And Ive explained my reasons 
below. 
Mr H initially  drew down £100 of his £500 limit and this was repaid within 10 days  of him being  
granted the facility. Mr H then didnt use the facility  between the end of March  and 16 August 2014  
meaning that Mr H wasnt indebted to Sunny  during this time. 
And while between 16 August and 30 September 2014 Mr H did take six drawdowns he only 
borrowed a total of £450  which is still below  the facilitys credit limit. Mr H then took his final 
drawdown on 10 October 2014 at which  point, it seems that Mr H was at his credit limit. He then 
repaid what  he borrowed over a five month period  which is in line with what the credit agreement 
suggests. 
So although overall Mr H had this facility for 11 months, he was only indebted  to Sunny for 6 of those 
months. And given there  was a significant gap in lending  I dont agree with the adjudicator that Sunny 
ought to have  realised that Mr H wasnt using the account as it intended or was having  some wider 
money management problems.  Indeed,  based  on the way that Mr H used the facility, Sunny wouldve  
likely thought  he was using it inline with the way the credit agreement  says it should be used. 
So having thought carefully about what happened, I dont  think Sunny ought  to have been concerned 
around the way the facility was being used. So Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about any part of 
the running  credit facility (loan 1).
Instalment loans
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr H 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
Ref: DRN79612445because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr Hs first instalment loan was granted while  he was still repaying his running credit facility.  This loan 
was due to be repaid over six months. At the time, and thinking about  Mr Hs repayment to the 
running credit facility, his contractual repayments due to Sunny were around  £161 per month.  
At the time of this loan Mr H declared a monthly income  of £1,560 and declared monthly expenditure 
of £950. So based on the information  that Sunny gathered  it wouldve  appeared  that Mr H could afford  
the repayments he was committed to making  on this loan. 
Ive carefully thought about  this loan, because as Ive said, Mr H was repaying his running credit 
facility at the same  time.  However,  Mr H hadnt taken a drawdown on the running credit  facility for 
around four months. And I still think at this time it was reasonable  of Sunny  to have relied on what  Mr 
H had told them about his situation. So I dont think Sunny  did anything  wrong by approving  loan two. 
However, a proportionate check for loan 3 and later loans  would most likely have shown that Mr H 
wasnt able to take on these  loans  because :
I think by loan 3, proportionate chec ks would most likely have shown Sunny that Mr H was 
having problems managing his money . I think Sunny have becom e aware that
Mr H already had a number of outstanding short term loan credit commitments that he needed to 
pay and these totalled over £550. Mr H also had a number of high cost long term credit 
commitments totalling nearly £400 per month. So before Mr H had even paid any other living 
costs and his loans to Sunny Mr H already committed to spending nearly 70% of his declared 
income to other high cost credit providers. 
In these circumstances, I think Sunny ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay this loan  and any subse quent loans.
So Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Ive set out what Sunny should  do to put 
things right below. 
Ref: DRN7961244