K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  about delays shes experienced following a claim she made under an 
insurance policy she holds with Elite Insurance Company  Limited.
background
Miss P bought  Alloy Wheel Insurance from Elite in September 2016 to run for three years.  In 
May 2018, Mr P made a claim. She complained  after the repairer cancelled two 
appointments that had been booked to carry out the repairs. She discovered  that Elite had 
instructed the repairer not to carry out any further  repairs due to issues  with its reinsurer. 
While Elite was working to make alternative  arrangements to ensure  claims could be settled, 
it couldnt give a date when the repairs would be carried out. 
Miss P referred her complaint to us and one of our adjudicators looked into it. She 
recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said Elite should carry out the repairs and 
extend the term of the policy by the length of time the repairs were outstanding. 
Miss P accepted  the adjudicators recommendation, but Elite didnt. It said it was committed 
to carrying out the repairs  as soon  as possible, but it didnt  agree to extend the period of 
cover. Elite said the policy remained in force while Miss P was waiting  for repairs.  It also 
explained that due to the problems with the re-insurer, its regulator had prevented it from 
further underwriting activities;  extending  the policy would  be an underwriting activity. 
As there was no agreement, Miss Ps complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a 
conclusion different from that of our adjudicator. Ive explained the reasons for this to both 
Miss P and Elite separately,  but will repeat  it here for completeness. 
Its not in dispute  that Elite is liable to carry out repairs to Miss Ps wheels. But due to 
problems beyond Elites  control, it couldnt  pay for the job and thats the reason for the 
cancellation of the appointments theyd booked. Elite has committed to repair the wheels as 
soon as possible. I believe its now in a position to do so and an appointment has been 
booked. So I dont need to make any finding on this aspect  of the complaint as Elite has 
accepted liability  for the repairs. 
What I do need  to decide however, is whether the policy should be extended; I dont think  it 
should. Let me explain why. 
 
While theres been  a delay in getting the repairs done, the policy has remained in force  
throughout. Miss P is still able to claim any further  damage which  falls under the terms of the 
policy in this period.  So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Elite to extend the length of 
the policy, so long as it commits to making repairs that their liable  for.
 
Furthermore, Elites regulator  had said its not allowed to carry out any further underwriting 
processes. Extending the terms of Miss Ps insurance would mean that Elite would be 
underwriting and would put them in breach of the regulators instructions. I cant  tell a 
company to act outside their regulators  instructions.
Ref: DRN78956722my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint in part. Elite Insurance  Company Limited 
should make  the repairs to Ms Ps vehicle as soon as possible. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7895672