K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Fairmead Insurance Limited,  (trading  as Legal & General  Insurance) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  on 12 January 2005.  He already had a mortgage, through another 
business. He applied for the PPI during a meeting at his home  with one of L&Gs  agents.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L for disability and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr L £287 a month for up to 12 months  if he 
lost his job or was unable  to work  because  of accident or sickness
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a caretaker. He told us hed get his full pay for at least 12 
months if he was off work sick  but he had no other  means to help him make the 
repayments if he couldnt work. Mr L has told us he had high blood pressure at the time of 
sale.
Mrs L wasnt working  and so the policy just covered Mr L. The mortgage was in joint 
names.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
L&G failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means L&G should have told 
Mr L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means L&G should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr L and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN72932622As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with another business  not L&G. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
Mr L met the advisor  on 12 January 2005. This is before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated  on 14 January  2005. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  were  not applicable at that time. However, the 
policy started in February 2005, and so Ive taken into account the insurance conduct rules 
(ICOB) and its transitional provisions where  anything happened on or after 14 January 2005.
There were also a number of industry  codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like L&G,  
selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN72932623The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If L&G gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether L&G gave  Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and L&G, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
L&G had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mr L says he felt rushed and 
pressured into buying the policy.  So Ive thought  about this alongside the information I have 
about the sale.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr and Mrs L applied for the PPI to protect payments towards  an 
existing mortgage   the mortgage began in 2000.  So Im satisfied theyd have known  this 
was a separate product  and they didnt have  to have it. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr L said about being  rushed  into buying the policy. Looking  at 
the paperwork I see that the advisor  completed  a detailed application form before Mr L 
applied for the policy. I also see there was a delay  of nearly  a month  between  Mr L buying 
the policy and the policy starting, in February. Finally,  I note the policy was free for the first 
three months  and so if he hadnt wanted the policy he had plenty of time to cancel  it. 
Ref: DRN72932624Taken together, Im not persuaded  that Mr L felt rushed or pressured into buying the policy  
based just on what hes said.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L knew the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did L&G provide advice?
This means  L&G had to advise Mr L with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
The documents Ive seen  suggest L&G took some  steps to establish whether  the policy was 
suitable for Mr L. 
In particular, I see the advisor completed  a client  review form which included some  
information about Mr Ls financial circumstances at the time. I also see that Mr L also applied 
for life and critical illness cover at the same  time  and so completed detailed medical 
disclosures. It also appears they asked him for details of his existing cover. That said,  I cant, 
see that L&G discussed whether Mr L received any sickness benefits  through  his 
employment.
But while I think L&G should  have done  more to ensure  the policy was ultimately suitable for 
Mr L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was uiltimately  suitable  for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr L had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Mr Ls ability  to continue  to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not not working for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for sick pay benefits he says he would  
have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr L. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr L has told us about his 
high blood pressure. I note Mr L appears to have told the advisor  he was in good 
health when he applied for the policy  and that the medical underwriting 
questionnaire for the life and critical illness policy suggests  he was asked if hed had 
raised blood pressure, but said no. And I havent seen  anything  to suggest he ever 
took time off work with this condition. There were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  L&G gave Mr L sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what L&G was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN72932625the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would pay out if Mr L was unable  to work 
through accident, sickness and disability) and of what  the policy cost  this was set out on 
the paperwork Mr L received at the time. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  L&G gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr L agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr L Im not persuaded L&G did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr L. Im not persuaded  L&G gave Mr L all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him.
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that L&G ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did L&Gs shortcomings  have on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that L&G didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr L would have 
still taken out the policy,  had L&G done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN72932626While Im not persuaded L&G took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr L, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if L&G had explained things properly, Mr 
L would have  acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr L says he wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when L&G advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ls circumstances  at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr L was given about the cost and benefit  of 
the policy was clear. But the information  about other aspects of the policy,  such  as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr L knew he would  have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear L&G told him the exact premium at the point Mr L applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr L would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with L&G at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr L would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  L&G made clear exactly  what Mr L would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Ls expectations about what  
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN72932627The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions (whether diagnosed or not) 
which Mr L received treatment for, or consulted  a doctor about,  in the 12 months 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
do any work.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr L says he had a medical condition when 
the PPI was taken  out, I dont think better information about  his exclusion would have put 
him off agreeing  to it. I say this because Mr L doesnt appear to have regarded  this condition  
as particularly significant  he told the business he was in good health,  and doesnt appear 
to have mentioned  this when asked about  his medical history.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr L had known he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do any work it might  
have played into his thinking  about  what he would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  given  Mr Ls circumstances, on balance, I still think 
he would  have been interested in taking out he cover. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr L made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN72932628the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude L&G should  pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would  put 
them in a better position than he would have been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find L&G had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr L in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 May 2021.
Rebecca Hardman
Ref: DRN72932629ombudsman
Ref: DRN7293262