K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Miss C says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold to her with a credit  card.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss C has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C says she wasnt told much about  PPI and didnt know  it had been added  to her 
account. Lloyds  told us its computer records show Miss C took out her card account in 1992, 
which is obviously now around  27 years  ago. 
Perhaps not surprisingly after so long, Lloyds didnt have a copy  of Miss Cs credit  card 
application form. But Ive seen an example of the form Lloyds says was probably used at 
the time and this did contain the option for applicants  to either agree to  or reject  PPI with 
their new credit card. This form is very similar to many  others  Ive seen and so I think  its 
more likely that Miss C used one similar  and must have  made  a selection on it to say she 
wanted the PPI.
I say this because  theres  no dispute  that the PPI was added to her account. Miss C says 
she never agreed to it, but I can see from copies of her monthly credit card statements  that 
PPI was being charged regularly. I note these are referred to on the statements as 
Payments Insurance Premium and the costs were shown. I think its likely that if Miss C 
hadnt agreed to the PPI she would have  wanted  to know  what the charges were for. 
So in the absence of any other firm evidence,  from a sale that is now well over two decades 
old, I think this shows Miss C is more likely  to have asked for the PPI when she applied for 
her card and also known it had been set up for her.
Lloyds concedes it may have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this means 
it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Miss Cs situation.  I looked at her 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I think that Miss C was eligible for the PPI and I dont  think  she would  have been  caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. The cost was around  £0.59 - 
£0.79 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance  on Miss Cs card.  Ive seen nothing  that 
suggests she would have found these  monthly  charges  unaffordable  and they are broadly in 
line with similar PPI policies Ive seen  from that time.
Miss C told us she already had some sickness protection  with her job and Ive thought 
carefully about this and all her circumstances, and any means she might  have  had at that 
Ref: DRN71402552time. But I havent seen  anything  that necessarily means the PPI wasnt suitable to Miss C. 
In the event of a successful claim for example,  she wouldve  been  able to have her 
outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. These  benefits  were 
accessible in addition  to any other  means she already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was probably suitable for her.
Lloyds also had to give Miss C clear information.  After such  a long time I cant confirm  she 
was told everything she shouldve been  told. But for me to uphold  this complaint, Id need to 
think it was more likely that Miss C didnt consent to the policy or there were other serious  
flaws in the way the policy  was sold. I simply dont have that evidence.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Miss C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7140255