K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998 by post.  Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Cs credit card application had a section  for PPI. It briefly described the policy and 
explained what it was for, and then there  were  two options to choose from: one to buy 
PPI and one to turn it down. Mr C signed the option specifically to take out PPI, which  
was separate  to him signing for the application as a whole. So I think that Bank  of 
Scotland made it clear Mr C didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it  
though I can understand why he might not remember this after so long.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for him. It did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the policy  - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And while Mr C had 
some benefits through work, the PPI covered him for longer and paid out on top. He also 
had some different  insurance policies, but they covered different things and werent 
relevant here. I understand  Mr Cs family mightve been willing  to help, but there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when  needed. And the PPI meant he 
wouldnt have to ask his family to pay his credit card.  So the policy  could have really 
been useful for Mr C in case  something went wrong. And so I dont think  better  
information about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell him, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN70684292my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019..
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7068429