K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner  Finance) 
(Barclays) didnt freeze  his payments to a loan he took out for the supply  and fitting of his 
kitchen.
Mr M is being  assisted by his wife, Mrs M, in bringing this complaint. 
I should mention  that my decision solely relates to Mr Ms complaint about the loan 
payments not being frozen. I understand  Mr M has raised other concerns which Barclays 
has investigated separately. If referred  to our service, theyll be considered as a separate  
complaint.
background
In May 2018, Mr M took out a fixed sum loan with Barclays to pay for the supply and fitting of 
a new kitchen he and Mrs M purchased from a company Ill refer to as W. It was an interest-
free loan to be repaid over four years.
Mrs M has said she and Mr M started experiencing issues with W and its agents  early on  
there were issues with the design and they found out they had been overcharged. Mr M 
contacted Barclays  on 24 July 2018 about this. Mrs M states Barclays told him not to worry; 
it would  freeze the account and investigate the matter. But it continued  taking payments 
every month and they found themselves dealing directly with W again. In January 2019,  
once the work had been completed, Mr M complained  to Barclays about  taking  payments  in 
spite of telling him it wouldnt whilst its investigations were under way. Barclays didnt uphold  
his complaint, explaining  there was no freeze or hold on the account. It also explained  it 
wouldnt usually do this until the retailer asked it to. To recognise the inconvenience caused  
to Mr M, Barclays paid £30 in compensation
Mr M referred the matter  to our service. Our investigator explained  the terms and conditions 
of the credit  agreement set out when Barclays would pay the funds to the retailer. He didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Barclays to release the funds to W once it received a certificate 
of completion signed by Mr M. The investigator  also didnt think freezing the payments would 
have made  any material  impact on Mr Ms subsequent disagreements with W as it had 
already been paid by then. The payments Mr M was required to make  were to Barclays. 
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators findings.  She disagreed with his statement that Mr M 
asked Barclays for the payments to be frozen because as he wanted  to improve  his position 
against W  it was Barclays who informed him it would  freeze  payments. Mrs M also 
questioned whether the investigator has listened to the call recording.  She provided the 
investigator with details of when this call took place and asked him to listen to it. After 
listening to the call dated 24 July 2018  (not 28 July 2018 as hes said in his email to Mrs M), 
the investigator explained he didnt  hear Barclays tell Mr M the payments would be frozen. 
Mr M, on the other hand,  did say he didnt mind paying Barclays. He just didnt want  to pay 
W. 
Mrs M still disagreed and so the matter has come  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN77094042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I explain 
why below.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr and Mrs M, and Barclays, that although Ive only 
summarised the background and arguments  above, I have considered  everything  Ive been 
provided with in its entirely.  I should also explain that a lot of what  Mr and Mrs M have said 
relates to the issues they experienced with W. Whilst I acknowledge what  theyve told us, 
this complaint is only about the actions taken  by Barclays in relation to the freezing of the 
account. And Ive kept this in mind  when reaching  my decision.
The starting point  is the agreement  between  Mr M and Barclays.  The pre-contract credit 
information document states Barclays will pay the amount of loan to the retailer  once we 
approve the loan and receive the signed  agreement or when the supplier has supplied the 
goods or services  to you, if this is later. Ive looked  at the certificate of completion  Mr M 
signed on 17 July 2018. I can see Mr M got in touch with Barclays  a week  later  on 
24 July 2018  and explained he was worried he had signed the form when the work hadnt 
been completed. Ive listened  to the call and he can be heard telling the agent the work was 
three-quarters done but he signed the completion form because  the joiner asked him to sign 
to get wages. I question why Mr M signed  to confirm  he was fully satisfied with all the work 
undertaken if it wasnt complete and he wasnt fully satisfied. In my experience, most people 
refuse to sign-off on an installation or fitting if theyre dissatisfied with the work. By signing 
the form, Mr M had confirmed he was satisfied  with the goods supplied  and the services 
provided. So I dont  think it was unreasonable for Barclays  to have released the funds to W 
and to have activated Mr Ms loan account to seek repayment, once it received a copy of the 
signed completion form. It was relying  on that signed certificate in good faith. 
Mrs M says Mr M was told during this call that Barclays would freeze the payment whilst  it 
investigated the claim it had raised for him under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Having  carefully listened to the call, there  was no discussion about  freezing payments. 
So I dont  agree Mr M was told his payments  would  be frozen.  Mr M can be heard saying he 
doesnt want to pay W but he doesnt mind  paying  Barclays. I think at this point the agent 
could have been clearer and explained  Mr M wasnt going to be making repayments to W  
his finance agreement was with Barclays and so the monthly repayments were  being made 
to it. But I dont think clearer information would have made any difference.  As Ive explained, 
the funds had already been released to W in line with the terms of Mr Ms agreement with 
Barclays. 
Mrs M has also raised some concerns about the credit agreement  they werent given a 
copy; there are three different versions of it. Id explain that Ive only seen one version of the 
credit agreement. It might be that Mr and Mrs M are confusing the credit agreement  for the 
finance with the contract  they signed with W for the kitchen. If Mr and Mrs M have any 
concerns about  the contract, that would be for W to address.  Also, when arranging this 
finance through Barclays, W was acting as a credit  broker.  So the responsibility to address 
any concerns about the information Mr M was or wasnt  given about  the finance  would  also 
lie with W.  
Finally, Mrs M has said she and Mr M dont know what  the £100  Barclays has paid into their 
account relates to.  This compensation is in connection to their section 75 claim and so 
doesnt form part of this complaint. That said, as Ive set out in the background, Barclays did 
Ref: DRN77094043pay £30 compensation to recognise any inconvenience caused to Mr M in connection with 
this complaint. As I havent found that Barclays told Mr M it would freeze payments, I make 
no award of compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7709404