K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Messrs Ps attempt to port their joint buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with 
The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc (TMW)  from one property to another. The offer on the new 
property was delayed  due to problems with the valuation of the new property, and Messrs P 
ended up selling the existing property, redeeming the mortgage and paying an early  
repayment charge  (ERC). If the new mortgage  had gone ahead  on time,  the ERC would 
have been waived. Messrs P hold TMW responsible and to resolve the complaint, they want 
the ERC  refunded. 
background
Briefly, in December  2017, Messrs P took out a BTL mortgage  on a property Ill call 13C.  
The mortgage, which was arranged from an intermediary, was on an initial fixed rate deal of 
2.89%, with an ERC payable if the mortgage  was redeemed before 31 May 2019. There was 
a provision in the mortgage contract  to port the fixed rate deal to another  mortgage on a 
different property, depending on the circumstances of any new purchase at the relevant 
time.
In the spring of 2018, Messrs P decided to sell 13C and buy a new property, which Ill call 
3S. Using the same  intermediary,  they applied for a new mortgage  with TMW,  with the aim 
of porting the fixed rate. On receiving the application, TMW instructed  a firm of surveyors  Ill 
call E to value 3S for mortgage purposes. Es initial valuation,  dated 8 May 2018, said 3S 
wasnt suitable security  for a mortgage due to its energy rating, and that the likely cost of 
upgrading would be £10,000. TMW said it would consider issuing a mortgage  offer if 
Messrs P obtained quotes for the work  that showed  the necessary work could be done for no 
more than £5,000. 
Messrs P got estimates  indicating the work could be done  for around £3,000, and on 
16 May 2018, their broker passed the information to TMW, who in turn passed  it on to E for 
its professional opinion. It took until 8 June 2018 for E to respond, and when it did, it said the 
cost of the work would  be £7,000, which was still too high. In any event, by then, the seller of 
3S had put it back on the market and received  an offer from a cash buyer. Meantime, 
Messrs P had completed the sale of 13C and incurred the ERC.
Messrs P complained about TMS handling  of the mortgage application. TMW paid them £50 
compensation for poor service but explained  it was reliant on Es opinion. In a further  
development, E revised  its opinion again  in August 2018, and agreed that the works could 
be completed for £3,000. TWM issued a mortgage  offer (although by then, the opportunity  to 
buy 3S had long passed), and offered Messrs P a further £150 compensation for their time 
and trouble. 
Messrs P referred their complaint to us. Our investigator initially dealt only with the issue  of 
the valuation,  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She explained that TMW had 
relied on the professional opinion of E, as it was entitled to do. Messrs P responded saying 
wed not addressed  the question of the ERC  theyd  paid on the redemption  of the mortgage 
on 13C.
The investigator looked into that, but again  wasnt persuaded TMW  had done anything  
wrong. She said it looked as though Messrs P had chosen  to exchange and complete on the 
sale of 13C before a decision had been taken on their mortgage application on 3S.
Ref: DRN78133942Messrs P asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Im aware that Ive condensed  events  in rather less detail than I might have done. No 
discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
material to the outcome  of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  But I assure 
the parties Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the valuation and time taken to assess the cost of repairs
Lenders arent themselves experts  in property, so they have to rely on other parties  who are; 
typically firms  of surveyors and/or valuers. Lenders are entitled  to have restrictions on what  
is or is not acceptable  security for a mortgage loan.  What those restrictions might  be is a 
matter for lenders commercial judgement, and not for me to interfere with. Theyre  also of 
some commercial sensitivity, so I wouldnt necessarily expect a lender to make its 
acceptable security policy  public knowledge.  I would  however expect it to make sure that 
third party surveyors are familiar with its policy.
TMWs duty to Messrs P was to appoint  a suitably qualified and competent  surveyor (who  
was familiar with its policy on acceptable  security) to carry out the valuation. Provided  it did 
that, and I am satisfied  it did in their case,  TMW was entitled  to rely on the surveyors opinion 
when assessing  whether,  and on what terms, it was willing to offer a new mortgage to 
Messrs P on 3S. It wasnt obliged to lend to them. No one has the right to borrow money.
I now turn to what Es surveyor actually said. I appreciate Messrs P are upset at how Es 
valuer assessed the information they provided, and the time it took to do so. But their 
complaint is against  TMW, and TMW neither  wrote  the valuation  nor assessed the estimates 
Messrs P submitted for the works  to bring  the property up to an acceptable standard. 
The valuation, and the assessment of the repair estimates, was done  by a third party  (E) for 
which TMW isnt responsible and over which we have no jurisdiction.  This part of Messrs Ps 
complaint isnt about something that TMW did, so I cant  consider here any alleged 
shortcomings in the valuations actual  content, or the time it took E to decide  the terms on 
which 3S would be acceptable  security  for a mortgage from TMW.
Im aware Messrs P feel particularly aggrieved about how the valuation  unfolded  because  
they paid the £250  fee for it. The purpose  of the fee was to meet  the cost of TMW  obtaining 
a report in order that it could assess the new propertys overall suitability as security for a 
mortgage. The outcome may not have  been what Messrs  P expected  or hoped  for, but by 
any reasonable analysis, theyve received the service they paid for. 
the ERC
Messrs Ps liability  to pay the ERC arises from the mortgage contract on 13S. It was payable  
if they redeemed  the mortgage before 31 May 2019, and thats what  they did. So purely from 
Ref: DRN78133943a contractual point  of view, the ERC  was due and fairly charged by TMW. But there is more 
to consider.
I mentioned earlier that the mortgage on 13S included a provision to port the fixed  rate deal 
to another mortgage on a different property. Thats what Messrs P were trying  to do, so Ive 
looked closely at what the provision actually  said. The relevant part of the mortgage offer 
from December 2017 is section ten on page  five. Under the heading What happens if you 
move house? the offer says the following:
Your mortgage is portable. This means that if you move house  and we are able to 
offer you a new mortgage, you can transfer the amount that you owe on the same 
terms without having to pay any early repayment charges. If you carry forward less 
than the amount you owe, any early repayment charge will be calculated  on the 
difference.
The decision  whether  or not we will be able to offer you a new mortgage  will depend  
upon the circumstances at the time including the type of property you want  to buy, 
your personal circumstances and the amount you want to borrow.
By any reasonable analysis, this narrative makes  it clear that theres no inherent  right to port 
the terms of the existing  mortgage to a new one and avoid incurring the ERC. Its conditional 
upon any subsequent application  - and the proposed new property - meeting TMWs lending  
criteria at the time of applying. So, in order for Messrs P to avoid paying  the ERC on 13C,  
they needed to be in a position to complete the sale of one and purchase of the other  on the 
same day. 
Messrs P have said that if TMW had issued the mortgage offer on 3S in early May 2018, 
they could have delayed the sale of 13C another month to allow  porting to take place. Im not 
sure how they think that helps their argument.  Firstly, for the reasons Ive explained, TMW,  
through no fault of its own, wasnt in a position to issue an offer in May.  Secondly,  not having 
received a mortgage offer on 3S was a reason for Messrs P to delay the sale of 13C if they 
wanted to port and avoid incurring the ERC.  
Messrs P committed  to selling 13C knowing they werent yet in position to commit to buying 
3S; indeed, before they knew  if they could commit to buying  3S. That was their right, but it 
was also their choice, and they must  accept the consequences that flow from that.
I can how important this is to Messrs P; but Im afraid that in characterising events  as the 
result of flaws in TMWs lending process, theyre  looking in the wrong  place for a remedy.  
Other than some minor customer service issues  for which  Im satisfied its made a fair offer 
of compensation   TMW has done nothing wrong, and isnt to blame  from Messrs P missing 
out on the purchase of 3S and incurring an ERC on the sale of 13C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN78133944Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Messrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7813394