K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Santander  UK Plc disclosed  her address to a third party causing her 
significant distress and upset. To resolve  her complaint she wants a proper apology letter, 
appropriate compensation and an assurance  that this wont happen again.
background
Ms A and her sister had a joint mortgage  with Santander. It was paid off in 2014. Ms A and 
her sister are now estranged. The sister didnt know Ms As address, and Ms A didnt want 
her to know it. However she complained to Santander that in April 2018  it had without  her 
authority disclosed  her address to her sister.
Santander said it had received a call from the sister seeking a mortgage  statement for the 
closed joint account.  It had told her to visit the branch to pay the fee required for the 
statement. Once the fee had been  paid the branch called Santanders mortgage centre to 
request that the statements be faxed to the branch for the attention of the sister.
However the statements had Ms As address on them. Santander  apologised but said it 
didnt know that Ms A and her sister had become estranged. As the mortgage had been a 
joint mortgage, no data protection  breach had occurred in relation to the financial information 
sent to the sister. However  Ms As address  shouldnt  have been disclosed to her. To 
apologise for this error, Santander  had sent a compensation  payment of £100 to Ms As 
account.
Ms A wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She said her sister 
was dangerous.  Ms A had a legal dispute with her, which was why the sister needed the 
mortgage statement  in the first place. Ms A had been extremely  careful,  successfully until 
then, to ensure  her privacy. Santander had handed  her details to the sister on a plate.
Ms A said this wasnt  just an error, it was negligence. She should be compensated properly. 
Her sister was capable  of anything, corrupt, untrustworthy and a huge  liability.  Ms A had 
wanted nothing  to do with her for the previous  five years.
Our adjudicator thought Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said Ms A had 
phoned Santander on 23 February  2018.  She said that the property was let and that she 
wanted to change the address for the mortgage account from the property to her current  
address. There was no mention of any dispute  between Ms A and her sister. When  the sister 
went into the branch  to collect  the mortgage  statement, Santander had changed the address 
from the property to Ms As address as per her request.
The adjudicator didnt think Santander  would have been aware of the dispute between  Ms A 
and her sister. It had acted on a request from an account holder. He didnt think  it would be 
possible to provide a mortgage statement without the address - an address which Ms A had 
changed for an account which was in joint names with her sister. The adjudicator  thought 
Santanders payment  of £100 was fair and reasonable.
The adjudicator said it wasnt within our remit to consider breaches  of the data protection  
legislation. That was the role of the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO).  If Ms A was 
concerned there had been a breach she could refer this to the ICO.
Ref: DRN78976472Ms A didnt agree. She said shed spoken  to Santander and it had separate  details for her 
sister and her address. It was an error on their behalf. When her sister  took the documents  
and realised they had Ms As details she returned them and Santander gave her the right 
documents with her details. But she was able to go back afterwards and copy Ms As 
address. 
Ms A said she didnt know anything about her changing the address on 23 February 2018. 
Why would  she need to change the address  for a property she no longer owned? The phone 
call was just to update Santander  about her account  details  for the property address if it 
needed to contact her further.
Santander had admitted  being wrong  for disclosing confidential information to a third party 
that could have financial and detrimental  effects  towards Ms A and her family.
Ms A asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also listened  to the recording  of the call on 23 February 2018.  Ms A did want  to change 
the address for all Santander accounts and she didnt say anything about  any dispute 
between her and her sister. 
Santander has acknowledged that Ms As address shouldnt have been disclosed to her 
sister and has apologised for this. Santander is already under an obligation  to keep 
customers details confidential and no purpose will be served by my ordering it not to repeat 
the mistake.
As regards  the compensation, Ms A has mentioned the possibility of financial and 
detrimental effects towards  her and her family  but Im not aware  that any have occurred.  
This type of error is most common where joint account holders are known to the bank to 
have separated or divorced. Santander  was careless but it didnt know that Ms A and the 
joint account holder  were  estranged and that a mistake could cause her such  enormous 
distress.
Having considered all the circumstances its my view that the compensation paid by 
Santander is a fair and reasonable outcome.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7897647