K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint concerns mortgage advice they received in 2008. The advice was 
given by TBG Financial Services Ltd (TBG), a representative of Intrinsic  Mortgage Planning 
Ltd (IMPL ). Mr and Mrs A say the mortgage  was not appropriate  for their circumstances, 
primarily because it had an unsuitable  repayment vehicle. 
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 17 May 2019. A copy of that provisional 
decision is attached,  and it forms part of my final determination.
Both parties  had further comments to make, but only in respect of the proposed  redress. 
Neither has disputed  my findings  on the outcome of this complaint.  
FS Legal said Mr and Mrs A wanted  clarification  on their mortgage repayments  made  since  
the 10-year term ended,  specifically if these would be taken into account by IMPL  when it 
undertook a redress calculation.  
IMPL noted it thought  there was a typographical error in the redress  (where an erroneous 
figure was used). It also said that if the mortgage  advice was suitable, then could it use the 
same rate rather than have to contact Santander for historical rates, which  could take some 
time and cause Mr and Mrs A to wait longer. In fact, it has concerns that Santander would 
not provide these at all.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their replies.  I have removed the reference to a differing 
figure for clarity. However, it wasnt an erroneous  figure. This was the overall cost for 
comparison for the mortgage Mr and Mrs A took out, not the actual borrowing. In any event, 
as I stated in my provisional  findings, the lending was for £106,800.  
In respect of the redress, I dont require IMPL to account for the payments Mr and Mrs A 
have had to make since the ten-year term has ended. Thats  not to say my proposed  redress 
disregards them  it is merely that if the correct advice had been given at the time, then Mr 
and Mrs A would  likely have taken out their lending on a repayment basis,  and the mortgage  
would have been repaid  by now (at a lower cost). The redress  therefore accounts  for what 
ought to have happened at the time. The second paragraph of my directions below in 
putting matters  right explains this.  
I appreciate the point  IMPL has made  regarding  the difficulty of liaising with Abbey (now 
Santander). But I dont agree that a mere comparison  at the same interest rate should  
automatically be used.  It should not be overly difficult to ascertain the best available 
mortgage rate at that time. 
If IMPL cannot obtain any response from Santander  within three months  from the date of 
acceptance of the decision, then it can use the same rate of interest (6.19%)  for the 
comparison. But, IMPL  must evidence to Mr and Mrs A that it has attempted  (on a number of 
occasions if required)  to contact Santander in order to establish  the lowest  possible interest 
Ref: DRN77256062rate available to Mr and Mrs A if theyd taken out the same borrowing on a capital repayment 
basis in September  2008. 
putting matters right
I would ordinarily propose that Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Ltd should  pay Mr and Mrs A the 
result of the difference between  the additional amount they borrowed on an interest-only 
basis and the balance that this proportion of the new mortgage would now be if theyd taken 
out the entire lending on a capital repayment  basis from the outset.  
However, the ten-year  mortgage term expired in 2018. I realise Mrs A has supplied  evidence 
to show how that lending is not fully repaid.  However, the reason for that is because  the 
underlying investment has failed and the property wasnt built. That is not caused by an 
action of IMPL or its AR. In my findings  I explained how I believed Mr and Mrs A should  have 
been given mortgage advice on taking  out their lending on a capital repayment basis,  given it 
was affordable for them. Had the adviser  done so, their mortgage would have been repaid 
by now. 
So, to place Mr and Mrs A back in the closest  possible position,  IMPL must pay the result  of 
difference between  the total cost of the interest-only mortgage and what the total cost of a 
capital repayment  mortgage would have  been.  So, that is if had been taken out with Abbey 
(now Santander) at the lowest available rate for the same term (taking  into account any 
changes in interest rate) where all payments  towards  capital and interest had been made in 
full and on time. IMPL  may therefore need to liaise with Abbey to ascertain historical lending 
rates. 
In making the above award, I recognise that Mr and Mrs A have had the opportunity  to make  
payments towards  capital  and interest  over and above their interest-only mortgage  
repayments. However, my findings are that the most suitable advice would have been for a 
repayment mortgage, where they would have been able to realise the funds for monthly 
repayments. It is not fair to expect them to find a lump  sum payment representing the 
calculation now. The comparison set out above is the most reasonable way to place  them 
back in the position theyd  have  been in if IMPLs  appointed representative had given  them 
suitable mortgage advice.  
I do not award the £1,349  booking fee to Mr and Mrs A because  theyd  have had to pay a 
booking fee to arrange the capital repayment  mortgage. 
IMPL is entitled  to deduct any interest  payments made by Harlequin during the duration of 
the mortgage term if these were  paid to Mr and Mrs A. 
To the result of difference between the total cost of the interest-only  mortgage and the total 
cost of a capital repayment  mortgage,  interest must  be added at gross rate of 8% simple  per 
annum from the date the mortgage  would have ended in September  2018 to the date of 
settlement. If IMPL considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, 
it should issue a tax deduction  certificate with the payment. Mr and Mrs A may be able to 
reclaim the tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
Finally, it also must pay £750 for the trouble  and upset  caused to Mr and Mrs A, as Mrs A in 
particular has explained how distressing  this situation has been for them. 
Ref: DRN77256063For the purpose of putting things right, Ive worked on the basis  that the Harlequin  
investment has a nil value. If this should  change or any funds are distributed in relation to the 
Harlequin deposit later, IMPL will be entitled to those funds. IMPL may request that Mr and 
Mrs A either assign the investment  to it, or gives  an undertaking that theyll transfer any 
future benefit to it. IMPL  must pay the costs associated with any such  assignment or 
undertaking.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Intrinsic Mortgage  Planning Limited must calculate and pay redress  
to Mr and Mrs A, as set out above.  In respect  of the distress payment, this should  be made 
within 28 days of Mr and Mrs A accepting the decision, if they choose  to do so.  
I do not make any other award or direction.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77256064Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint  concerns mortgage advice they received in 2008. The advice was given  by 
TBG Financial Services  Ltd (TBG),  a representative  of Intrinsic Mortgage Planning  Ltd (IMPL ). Mr 
and Mrs A say the mortgage was not appropriate for their circumstances, primarily  because  it had an 
unsuitable repayment vehicle. 
background
Mr and Mrs A are now represented by FS Legal  Solicitors LLP (previously Waterside  Legal) in 
bringing their complaint.  
They met with a TBG adviser in August 2008 to discuss remortgaging their home. The funds  being 
raised via the remortgage were sought to invest in an off-plan property investment via Harlequin. This 
had been promoted to them via an agent  from the Marcus James  Group, who had then asked the 
TBG adviser to arrange the mortgage lending.   
The mortgage  completed in September 2008. The lending was for £106,800, plus a £1,349 booking  
fee that was added  to the loan. Mr and Mrs A say they expected the mortgage payments to be 
serviced by Harlequin, under the terms of their investment arrangement. This happened initially,  and 
interest payments were  made  by Harlequin  from 2008 until January 2012,  though it appears these  
were partial payments from September 2010. Nonetheless, the property was never  built and it is 
highly likely that Mr and Mrs A have lost all of the funds they paid as a deposit.  
At the time of the mortgage advice,  the TBG adviser  was an appointed representative (AR) of IMPL. 
TBG was also part of the Marcus James Group, but IMPL submits that these were  separate entities. It 
says at no time was the Marcus James Group an AR of IMPL. 
However, TBG was authorised  by it to give advice  on mortgages.  So, Mr and Mrs A complained to 
IMPL in February 2015. At that time,  they were  represented  by a different firm of solicitors.  
The representative said the mortgage was mis-sold. It said the advice  was unsuitable because TBGs  
adviser it concerned an interest-only mortgage in which the repayment vehicle was comprised of the 
expectation of success in a high risk, unregulated  investment.
IMPL did not uphold the complaint. It accepted that the adviser was working for TBG as an AR of 
IMPL. But he wasnt authorised to advice about investments, only mortgage and protection products. 
Further, it said it wasnt  a mandatory requirement  for the adviser to obtain information  regarding the 
preferred repayment vehicle. Nor was it aware  of the mortgage lender  requesting this evidence  from 
Mr and Mrs A. 
IMPL said the advice was suitable. It was recorded  how Mr and Mrs A had an existing  mortgage and 
theyd wanted to continue an interest-only mortgage with the same lender for the new borrowing. It felt 
the remortgage had met their documented needs at the time, it was affordable  based on their income 
and expenditure, and the adviser  had made clear theyd have a balance left to pay at the end of the 
mortgage term.  
The representative referred Mr and Mrs As complaint to this service where one of our adjudicators 
reviewed the complaint. She said the complaint should succeed. 
Our adjudicator believed the TBG adviser knew of the reason  for Mr and Mrs As requirement to raise 
funds via a mortgage. And she felt he gave them unreasonable mortgage advice, as the investment 
was not a reasonable means  of ensuring  the mortgage was repaid. So, she said the entire  mortgage 
ought to be returned to them,  along  with the booking  fee since theyd have otherwise been mortgage-
Ref: DRN77256065free. Finally,  she proposed IMPL pay £750 to Mr and Mrs A to represent the distress theyd been 
caused.  
IMPL disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. It reiterated how the TBG 
adviser was not qualified nor authorised  to provide any advice in respect of the overseas investment. 
He had recommended suitable lending to meet their documented  needs  if they had any query about 
the repayment vehicle, it was Mr and Mrs As responsibility to seek  investment advice  elsewhere.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Before I go any further, Id like to thank  the parties for their patience  
in awaiting a determination of this complaint.  
Having looked at all of the evidence,  I agree  with the outcome proposed by the adjudicator, although 
with differing redress. I therefore intend to propose the complaint  be upheld,  unless I see any further 
evidence from either party to alter my findings.  
IMPL accepts that TBGs adviser  was an AR at the time of the advice. But it says that he was 
restricted to protection and mortgage advice only, that it was not responsible for any Marcus James 
advisers and that there is no key evidence that the TBG adviser gave Mr and Mrs A investment 
advice. 
Nonetheless, I dont agree  that there is no evidence of what went on in respect of the advice. Mr and 
Mrs A were  given key facts documentation which was headed Marcus  James Group incorporating 
TBG Financial Services  Ltd.
 
Mr and Mrs As former representative said that both parties promoted the property purchase, and 
gave them literature about it. The key features documentation shows  they operated  from the same 
address. 
Under 2.3.1R  of the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), I can consider  a complaint relating to:
(1) Regulated  activities
Or any ancillary  activities,  including advice, carried on by a firm in connection  with them.
And under section 39(3) of the Financial Service and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) it says:
The principal of an appointed  representative  is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted  it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Since IMPL accepted  responsibility for the mortgage advice given  to Mr and Mrs A by the adviser,  if 
investment advice was given ancillary to that, it would likely also be responsible for that advice too. 
Nonetheless, Im not going to determine whether  I think it likely investment advice was given  by 
TBGs adviser ancillary to the mortgage advice. Thats because I dont think  that the investment 
advice is central to this complaint. 
This complaint has been  set out by FS Legal and Mr and Mrs As previous representative. It is 
specifically about the mortgage advice they received from TBG, as an AR of IMPL.  The complaint is 
about the suitability  of the mortgage for them, and as I intend  to uphold the complaint regarding the 
mortgage advice, its not been necessary for me to make findings about  whether  the investment 
advice was ancillary to the mortgage advice. In any event, the parties have confirmed the investment 
had been promoted to Mr and Mrs A via an agent  from the Marcus  James Group.  
I accept IMPLs view is that TBGs adviser  wasnt authorised to give advice about  unregulated 
overseas property investments. I dont doubt that, and IMPL has confirmed it was part of the advisers  
Ref: DRN77256066contract with it. But, the adviser  was aware that was the reason that Mr and Mrs A sought  the new 
mortgage and both parties names  and addresses appear on TBGs  advice correspondence. 
It follows I believe  that the adviser was put on notice of the nature of the Harlequin  investment leading 
to Mr A and Mrs As decision  to remortgage their home to fund the investment deposit.  I say this with 
particular reference  to the evidence showing  how Mr and Mrs A had in fact redeemed their mortgage 
by July 2008,  by encashing two endowment savings  plans. 
The requirements  of the adviser when considering  Mr and Mrs As options  are set out in the Mortgage 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB)  which  applied at the time.  As the mortgage was taken  out 
on their residential property,  it was a regulated mortgage contract.
Under MCOB 4.7.2R a regulated mortgage  contract  was suitable  if, having regard to the facts 
disclosed by the customer and other relevant  facts  about the customer  of which the firm is or should 
be reasonably  aware, it had reasonable grounds to conclude that:
the customer can afford  to enter into the regulated mortgage contract;
it is appropriate  for the needs  and circumstances  of the customer;  and
it is the most suitable of those that the firm has available to it. 
MCOB 4.7.8G states that a firm was generally  entitled to rely upon the information  provided by a 
customer/customers unless taking a common sense approach it had reason  to doubt it. But, that does 
not negate the advisers duty to have looked at Mr A and Mrs As wider circumstances.  
TBGs adviser needed  to ensure he had all relevant information to allow  him to recommend a 
mortgage that was appropriate and affordable for Mr and Mrs A. Although he could generally  rely 
upon what they had said, this meant he was still required  to exercise a degree of caution and question  
anything he had reason to doubt.
Looking at the fact find documentation, its clear the mortgage was affordable for Mr and Mrs A. 
Theyd paid off their mortgage  in July 2008, with an outstanding  payment remaining of £22.53 left for 
the final month of August  2008. Their net monthly income  was over £4,600 with monthly  expenditure  
of just under £1,400.  Both Mr and Mrs A were planning to retire in 14 years  time  and so they took 
out lending for a ten-year term. 
However, under the points  of Under  MCOB 4.7.2R set out above, I do not believe TBGs adviser 
reasonably established that taking out new mortgage lending was either  appropriate or suitable.  
IMPL has said the adviser wasnt qualified  to advise whether the property was a realistic repayment 
vehicle, but I dont agree.  While he may not have been able to advise Mr and Mrs A on the investment 
itself (or the risks), he was able to provide advice on mortgages. Giving them advice  on an interest-
only mortgage  will (or should) include considering the repayment strategy.
Given they had now repaid  their mortgage  and had only one other documented financial commitment  
(that being a credit  card borrowing of £2,000), Mr and Mrs A could have afforded to take out the new 
mortgage on a capital repayment  basis,  yet there is no recorded discussion around this. In fact, the 
suitability documentation  from the adviser records that they will look to using an ISA or other type of 
investment product to repay the lending.  
MCOB 4.7.12G states it does not require a firm to provide advice on investments when considering 
its obligations under MCOB 4.7.11E. But it does go on to state that whether  such advice should  be 
given will depend upon  the individual needs and circumstances of the customer and that MCOB 4 
does not restrict the ability of an adviser  to refer the customer  to another source  of investment 
advice.
Theres no clear evidence to show Mr and Mrs A were referred for such investment  advice. But, when 
assessing whether the mortgage was appropriate for their needs and circumstances,  the adviser  
Ref: DRN77256067wouldve needed to think about how the mortgage would  be repaid. The suitability documentation  is 
silent on why the additional  funds are needed. It simply  says you wish to remortgage your existing 
property. Given their mortgage had been paid off, there had to be another  reason why Mr and Mrs A 
required these funds  and Id expect TBGs adviser to have recorded some written fact-finding  about  
that. 
I believe TBGs  adviser failed  to meet two of the MCOB requirements set out above.  The features of 
the Harlequin  investment ought to have raised  concerns as to the security of the repayment  strategy, 
given Mr and Mrs As respective ages and circumstances. TBGs adviser made no documented 
discussions with Mr or Mrs A of this nature.  
Looking at all of the circumstances, I believe if the adviser  had made Mr and Mrs A aware of the risks, 
and if theyd appreciated those risks, though they wished to enter into the Harlequin investment they 
wouldnt have taken out the additional borrowing on an interest-only basis.  It could  likely leave them  
with a mortgage  debt at the end of the term if the investment  return  was not realised, and was a high-
risk means of repaying  the lending.  
Being unauthorised  to advise on unregulated overseas  investments does not mean  that TBGs 
adviser had no obligations to Mr and Mrs A. He had to comply with the MCOB rules and guidance and 
I believe he failed to do so. 
Even though  the adviser could only provide recommendations about  Mr and Mrs As mortgage, 
because of its reliance on Harlequin, I believe  that he ought  to have highlighted the potential  
repayment risks more  specifically to them.  Even though I believe the mortgage was affordable, there 
was no justification for the lending to be taken on an interest-only  basis as opposed to a capital 
repayment basis.  Had that happened, the mortgage would have been  repaid by now.  
So, I intend to uphold this complaint. This isnt because the Harlequin investment failed; its not to 
compensate for Mr and Mrs As investment loss nor is it that the mortgage was unaffordable for them. 
I uphold it because I believe the adviser  did not properly  have reasonable grounds to conclude  that 
the repayment strategy was suitable or appropriate  and there is no documented evidence to support  
the advisers actions.  And so the advice  was unsuitable for their circumstances. IMPL is responsible 
for that mortgage  advice.  
If Mr and Mrs A had received correct  mortgage  advice,  I believe it most likely that they would have 
taken out the full borrowing on a capital repayment basis. This was the most  suitable option for their 
stated requirements, is the most suitable of those  that TBG had available to it and it was affordable for 
them, having paid off their previous residential  mortgage. 
putting matters right
Unless I see evidence which changes my mind, I am minded to uphold this complaint. So I will issue  a 
final decision  containing redress along these lines.
I would ordinarily  propose that Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Ltd should  pay Mr and Mrs A the result of 
the difference between the additional amount they borrowed on an interest-only basis and the balance 
that this proportion  of the new mortgage would now be if theyd  taken out the entire  lending on a 
capital repayment basis from the outset.  
However, the ten-year  mortgage term expired in 2018. I realise Mrs A has supplied  evidence to show 
how that lending is not fully repaid. However, the reason for that is because  the underlying investment 
has failed and the property wasnt built. That is not caused by an action of IMPL or its appointed 
representative. In my findings I explained how I believed  Mr and Mrs A should  have been given 
mortgage advice on taking out their lending on a capital repayment basis,  given it was affordable for 
them. Had he done so, their mortgage would have been repaid by now. 
Ref: DRN77256068So, to place Mr and Mrs A back in the closest possible position, IMPL must  pay the result of 
difference between the total cost of the interest-only mortgage  and what the total cost of a capital 
repayment mortgage would  have been.  So, that is if had been taken  out with Abbey at the lowest  
available rate for the same term (taking into account any changes in interest rate) where all payments 
towards capital and interest had been made in full and on time.  IMPL may therefore need to liaise with 
Abbey to ascertain  historical lending rates. 
In making the above award I recognise that Mr and Mrs A have had the opportunity to make 
payments towards capital and interest over and above  their interest-only mortgage repayments. 
However, my findings are that the most  suitable  advice would have been for a repayment  mortgage, 
where they would have been able to realise  the funds  for monthly  repayments. It is not fair to expect  
them to find a lump sum payment representing the calculation now. The comparison  set out above is 
the most reasonable  way to place them back in the position  theyd have been in if IMPLs appointed 
representative had given them suitable mortgage advice.  
I do not propose to return the £1,349 booking fee to Mr and Mrs A because theyd have  had to pay a 
booking fee to arrange  the capital repayment mortgage. I have seen no clear evidence around what, if 
any, difference there would be for a booking fee. I therefore do not intend to make any award  about 
that. 
IMPL is entitled to deduct  any interest payments made by Harlequin  during the duration of the 
mortgage if these were paid to Mr and Mrs A. 
To the result of difference between the total cost of the interest-only mortgage and the total cost of a 
capital repayment mortgage,  interest must  be added  at gross rate of 8% simple per annum  from the 
date the mortgage would have ended in September 2018  to the date of settlement.  If IMPL considers  
it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should issue  a tax deduction 
certificate with the payment. Mr and Mrs A may be able to reclaim  the tax paid from HM Revenue and 
Customs, if applicable.
Finally, it also must pay £750 for the trouble  and upset caused to Mr and Mrs A, as Mrs A in particular 
has explained  how distressing this situation has been for them. 
I do not intend  to make any other award. 
For the purpose of putting things right, Ive worked on the basis that the Harlequin  investment has a 
nil value. If this should change or any funds are distributed  in relation to the Harlequin deposit later, 
IMPL will be entitled  to those  funds. IMPL may request that Mr and Mrs A either assign the investment  
to it, or gives  an undertaking that theyll transfer any future benefit to it. IMPL must pay the costs 
associated with any such assignment or undertaking.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint and propose that Intrinsic Mortgage  Planning Ltd must pay the total 
sum of the redress calculation as set out above to Mr and Mrs A. 
I now invite  both parties to submit any further comments they have by 17 June 2019,  after which time 
Ill issue  my final decision. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7725606