K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds service 
after he asked for help under the terms of his roadside assistance insurance policy.
Reference to DAS includes its agents.
background
Mr S car broke down. He rang DAS for help and it initially said it would send a recovery 
agent to recover  his car to his home address. But the recovery agent later told Mr S that 
because of the icy conditions it wasn't  safe to recover Mr S car from its location. Some 
hours later Mr S told DAS he no longer  wanted its help and he phoned a friend  to come and 
pick him up.
Mr S complained. DAS acknowledged that its service could have been better. It accepted 
that it could have phoned Mr S itself rather than waiting for him to ring it. It also said that 
while it wasn't safe to collect his car it should  have offered an alternative method of taking 
him home. In recognition  of the impact of its service it paid Mr S £75 compensation.
Mr S wasn't happy with that and brought  his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  
at Mr S complaint. She thought DAS had done enough to put things right.  Mr S didn't agree 
so his complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
DAS has accepted that it didn't get everything  right. It explained that - because  of the icy 
conditions - its recovery agent couldn't safely recover Mr S car on the night he broke down. I 
can understand that Mr S would have found that frustrating but I wouldn't  expect a recovery 
agent to attempt to recover a car where  that would be putting themselves, Mr S or his car at 
risk of injury or damage. 
But I can understand that on a freezing cold night Mr S would have wanted DAS to keep him 
informed of what was going on without him having  to ring DAS to find out. I've seen  that the 
recovery agent did ring Mr S to provide updates. But it appears DAS was less proactive. And 
I note that it acknowledged in its response  to his complaint that it should have done more  to 
keep Mr S informed of what was going on. It also accepted that it should have done more to 
arrange for Mr S to be taken home. But it didn't  do so and Mr S had to ring a friend for a lift. I 
can understand that this added to Mr S distress and inconvenience  at the time. But I note 
that DAS paid Mr S £75 compensation  to address the impact of its mistakes.  And I think  
that's reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S has also said that DAS didn't keep him informed  of what  was going on with his 
complaint. But I've seen evidence that it acknowledged  his complaint shortly after receiving 
it. And it later provided him an update to say it was still looking into his complaint. And I think 
that was reasonable in the circumstances. I've noted that DAS did take slightly longer than 
the eight weeks  the regulations allow it to respond  to Mr S concerns, which  certainly isn't 
ideal. But I haven't seen  any evidence  beyond Mr S comments that he chased DAS for a 
Ref: DRN76044542response in this period. And I don't  think that DAS needs to take further action  to address 
that point. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7604454