K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complained about the sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy 
which she bought  in 1998. Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey, is responsible for the sale.
Ill refer to Santander  for consistency.
background
Our adjudicator in this case told Mrs H that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but she 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding this 
case.
Having done this, Im afraid Im not upholding the complaint  about  the cover  being mis-sold 
to Mrs H. However, Santander has recently  told us she is due back some  money, with 
interest, for the commission it got from the sale. 
Mrs Hs main point  of complaint is that she was led to believe the MPPI was something she 
needed to have with her mortgage. She also says she didnt need it.
Its obviously not possible for me to find out what was actually discussed when Mrs H met 
with the Santander adviser  back in 1998. The sale was over 20 years ago and we dont  have 
many of the original documents still available.  Given the timescales, this isnt particularly 
unusual and businesses  arent required to keep  things  indefinitely.
However, although Santander  has virtually  no records left, Ive looked at a letter  Mrs H was 
given about the MPPI  at around  the time of the sale. In my view,  the letter doesnt suggest  
the MPPI  policy is compulsory and I think Mrs H would have been able to establish that the 
cover was something that was being  recommended to her  as opposed to something  that 
she had to have  with her mortgage. Broadly, the letter explained that the MPPI was free for 3 
months and it went on to outline what  she could  expect to pay after that. I can also see the 
letter shows  she was able to change her mind  and it told her what  to do if she wanted  to.
I dont doubt Mrs H now genuinely believes she was mis-sold the cover.  But I think that at 
the time,  she would  have  been able to see she had a choice  and I think  its more likely she 
agreed to the policy at the time of the sale.
I think that the policy was recommended  to Mrs H as part of an advised sale so this means  
Santander was under an additional duty to ensure it was suitable for her particular 
circumstances.  Ive  looked closely at her situation and I think  she was eligible for the cover  
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. I also think 
the policy was comparable in cost to similar ones I know were  available  at the time and I 
havent seen anything that suggests  the monthly premiums were  unaffordable for Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN76433952Mrs H said she had some  protection  from sickness already through  her job. She also gave 
us evidence of holding a substantial amount of savings at around the time of the sale. She 
says that she therefore didnt  need this type of cover.  
I do understand why shes told us about  these things and the point that is being made.  But 
Im afraid they dont  necessarily mean the policy was unsuitable for her. 
The evidence Ive seen  in this case tends to show Mrs H managed  her finances very 
responsibly. Although  she reduced  her savings pool upon buying the property in question, 
she still retained a significant  savings amount after completing the sale. She thinks  this 
means the MPPI  wasnt  suitable for her. But I dont agree. 
I think her mortgage would have been an important financial and long-term commitment  for 
Mrs H and the consequences of not being able to keep up payments on it could have had 
serious implications. The evidence Ive seen also strongly implies Mrs H was a keen saver.  I 
cant say why she decided to buy MPPI, but as an apparently  prudent and competent  
manager of her financial affairs, I think having  mortgage protection  is something she 
probably wanted. This policy  would have paid her a monthly benefit  of around £400 for up to 
12 months, in the event  of a successful claim.
By having MPPI,  this meant Mrs H could  keep her savings to spend on other things or to 
provide her with financial security in times of unforeseen circumstances or financial 
uncertainty. Put another way, I dont  think having  savings made the MPPI unsuitable for her.
Ive also taken into account Mrs Hs job which I agree would have had good protections 
against sickness and unemployment. But for similar reasons, I dont think this makes MPPI 
for a mortgage unsuitable. 
So overall, I think the cover was suitable  for her.
I went on to look at whether I thought Santander  had given Mrs H enough information about 
the policy. The documents  Ive mentioned above  did clearly set out the costs  of the cover for 
Mrs H. I think she would have also been given the policys  terms and conditions.  So I think 
she had what she needed to make an informed decision  about  what she wanted to do. 
All this means Santander doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs H. But 
Santander has recently told us it agrees it now needs to calculate and pay back some  of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mrs H because:
When the policy was sold,  Santander  now admits it expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI premium)  so it should have 
told Mrs H about  that. Because Santander  didnt  tell Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander must pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the MPPI  premium   and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
I direct  Santander UK plc to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander should also pay back  8%* simple  
interest on each payment.
Ref: DRN76433953*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7643395