K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs H complain that when they ceased  to let their property and moved back in, 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to remove  the interest loading it had applied  
when it gave them consent to let (CTL).  
To resolve  their complaint  they would as a minimum expect the mortgage  rate to be reduced 
to the standard variable rate from the date of their  return  to the property (1 May 2017) to the 
date that they changed  to a new product (1 August 2018). 
background
Mr G and Mrs H took a mortgage with Halifax in 2007. There  was a two-year fixed-interest 
mortgage product.  In 2008 they bought  a three-year  tracker rate product.
In 2008 they moved abroad  until May 2017.  During this time they let the property. They 
requested CTL from Halifax.  This was granted for an initial three  year period expiring in 
August 2011.  Halifax required them to transfer  their mortgage product to one of a limited  
range of CTL products  offered by Halifax.
On 13 July 2011 Halifax wrote to them:
Im just writing  to remind you that the mortgage  product you took out for letting your property 
ends on 01/08/2011. Shortly beforehand, the consent we gave you to let your property  will 
end as well. If you want to continue  to let your property please contact us as soon as 
possible on [number] as you will need  to apply for us to renew  our consent. You will also 
need to choose a new mortgage product from our range for properties being let.
Whichever youre doing - whether you are continuing to let or not - you will need to call us to 
discuss your options.
On 13 August 2011 Mr G and Mrs H made a further CTL application. For some reason  there  
was a delay in dealing with this and Mr G and Mrs H applied  again on 20 June 2012.
Mr G and Mrs H say this was granted indefinitely, and that as their previous  product  had 
matured, Halifax required them to transfer to another CTL product. However:
1.the Halifax product  transfer offer dated 29 June 2012 says:
Mortgage product: CLK868 - a variable rate which is 5.490%  above the Bank of England 
base rate, currently 0.500%, which ends on 31/08/2015, to give a current rate payable  of 
5.990%....After 31/08/2015,  your loan reverts to a variable rate which is 4.340%  above the 
Bank of England  base rate, currently 0.500%, until the end of the term. and
2.On 26 June 2013 Halifax wrote to Mr G and Mrs H:
Im just writing  to remind you that the consent  we gave for you to let your property ends 
3rd July 2013.
What you need  to do now
Ref: DRN79956992.If you want to continue  to let your property  please contact us as soon  as possible on 
[number] as you will need to apply for us to renew  our consent. You will also need  to choose 
a mortgage product from a special range we now have specifically for properties being let
Whichever youre doing - whether you are continuing to let or not - you will need to call us to 
discuss your options.
So on 23 October  2013 Mr G and Mrs H made  a further CTL application  for 12 months. 
Halifax replied on 29 October 2013  saying this had been granted indefinitely.  
Mr G and Mrs H say they returned to the UK on 1 May 2017 and that they informed Halifax  
of their intention to return to the property and no longer  rent it out. They  say that Halifax  
acknowledged the change of address but that they remained on the CTL product. 
In June 2018 Mr G and Mrs H complained  to Halifax. I think this was verbal. Halifaxs 
response dated 14 June 2018 describes their complaint as follows:
I understand youre concerned about  us not informing or offering you any new products 
which you would have  been available for [sic] when you returned to live in the mortgaged 
property. When you went abroad  you informed us that you would be letting out the property. 
Therefore, at the time you only had a restricted choice of certain tracker and fixed  interest 
rate products which  you were able to choose  from. However, when you came back  to live in 
the mortgaged  property and informed us of this you feel that we should have informed you 
about and offered you any new products that were available  at that time.  Therefore, you are 
unhappy because  you could possibly have been  on a lower rate product  earlier.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. It said:
it is not our responsibility to pro-actively advise customers to complete a product transfer  
for new lower interest rate products as we are not aware of their future  intentions  in regards 
to the mortgage.  Therefore, we were  not obliged to inform you or offer you the new products 
which were available  to you when you returned to live in the mortgaged  property. I can 
confirm that it is your responsibility  to look into what new interest rate products are available  
to you and contact  us to discuss and apply  for these.
On 9 July 2018 Halifax  issued a product transfer offer. It was for a fixed rate of 2.74% for two 
years. After 31 October  2020  the rate would be Halifax  Homeowner Variable Rate,  currently 
3.99% until the end of the term.  Im assuming Mr G and Mrs H accepted this, because  they 
say in their complaint form that they expect to be on a new product with Halifax  from 
1 August 2018.
Mr G and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. They were put out that Halifax 
apparently had no responsibility  to even inform them that they could have changed  product  
when returning.  They believe that it was unfair to keep them  on the CTL product. In effect 
Halifax continued to charge a risk premium for CTL when  they were  no longer letting the 
property. They fail to see why they werent  informed that they should consider changing 
product once they were no longer letting the property. They should have been reverted to 
SVR (or other such rate) generally payable by retail customers living  in their own property.  
Mr G and Mrs H added:
Ref: DRN79956993I should  point out that they refer to our complaint  being related to the fact that they should 
have offered us another product, whereas my actual complaint related to the fact that they 
did not remove the Consent to Let Loading  that we had to pay when  letting our property. 
We accept that this may be simply the Banks way of seeing our issue.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr G and Mrs Hs complaint be upheld.  He said it 
was common industry  practice  for mortgage consumers  to switch their mortgage. It was also 
common for consumers to lock in to an initial interest rate deal. When any initial  mortgage  
rate deal ended, consumers were free to shop around, whether with new lenders or their 
existing lender. But he said mortgage lenders werent required to actively sell new products 
to consumers. Nor were  they compelled to do so under the regulations.  It was for the 
consumer to ensure  they were aware when they were able to move  or change their 
mortgage product.
Mr G and Mrs H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said 
their complaint was that when they moved abroad Halifax required them  to take out a CTL 
product. This product  had a loading of 0.85% above  the rate applicable to normal  residential 
mortgages. When they returned to the UK and informed Halifax that they were returning to 
their property and no longer intended  to let it, their expectation was that this loading would 
be removed.
Their complaint wasnt simply that Halifax didnt switch product.  The fact that the removal of 
the CTL loading might  require a change of product  was, to a certain extent,  immaterial.  The 
point made  by Halifax and supported by the adjudicator appeared to be that it was OK for 
Halifax to continue to charge  the additional  interest even though  it knew  that the property 
was no longer let.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Mrs H put their complaint on the basis that when they wanted  to let their property, 
Halifax added 0.85% to their interest  rate for the increased risk and should have removed it 
when they moved  back in. I can understand that. But it doesnt match what the parties 
actually agreed.
The product  transfer  offer dated 29 June 2012 said:
Mortgage product: CLK868 - a variable rate which is 5.490%  above the Bank of England 
base rate, currently 0.500%, which ends on 31/08/2015, to give a current rate payable  of 
5.990%....After 31/08/2015,  your loan reverts to a variable rate which is 4.340%  above the 
Bank of England  base rate, currently 0.500%, until the end of the term. 
So the parties expressly agreed that from September 2015 the interest rate (in the absence  
of a new product)  would  be 4.340% above  the Bank of England base rate until the mortgage  
ended. Its not obvious  to me that this amounted to adding  0.85% to Mr G and Mrs Hs 
mortgage rate. The rate prior to CTL, as set out in Halifaxs letter of 16 July 2008, was 
1.590% over base.
The case  as put by Mr G and Mrs H might make sense in the absence  of mortgage products. 
Suppose that prior to CTL, they had just been  on X% over base with no fixed  rate or other 
Ref: DRN79956994product. And Halifax said they could have CTL but the rate would  go up to X+0.85%  over 
base while  the property was let. That would  be a CTL loading  and I can see that it would be 
fair to remove the 0.85%  when  the letting ceased.
But that isnt what  was agreed. There was a CTL mortgage product. The question  what  
happens to this when Mr G and Mrs H move back into the property is dealt  with in the CTL 
application which they signed,  dated  23 October 2013. It says:
If we reoccupy the property l/we will provide reasonable evidence  of reoccupation to you 
after which l/we will be able to transfer to a new product then available to existing mortgage 
customers in occupation (subject to paying any ERC due on any existing consent to lease 
product).
So the parties agreed that on re-occupation  Mr G and Mrs H could transfer to a new product, 
not that Halifax would of its own volition  take steps to reduce their interest rate. The ball was 
in their court.
In their complaint  form Mr G and Mrs H say: I fail to see why we were not informed that we 
should consider  changing  product  once we were no longer  letting our property.  But they 
were informed. It was in the application  form.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7995699