K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that NewDay  Ltd closed his credit  card account without notifying him. 
background
Mr W opened a store card account  in June 2006. NewDay  acquired the account in 
April 2014 and its now a credit card account.
Around 2012, Mr W says he experienced some financial difficulties and entered into a 
payment arrangement with the previous administrator of this card.  He says he agreed  to no 
longer spend on the card until he was in a better  financial position, with the understanding he 
could spend on it again when his financial  situation  improved. Hes since continued making 
payments to this card and receives  monthly  statements  showing  his account as open  with 
money available to spend.
Earlier this year, Mr W lost this card and contacted NewDay  to cancel it and get a new one. 
But he was told his account had been  closed and so a new card couldnt be issued. Mr W 
would need to continue making  payments to clear the outstanding balance,  but he would no 
longer be able to use the card for purchases or spending. Mr W was unhappy that hed not 
been notified of this, so complained to NewDay.
NewDay responded saying itd made a business decision to close Mr Ws account  on 
15 August 2014.  It said it had the right to do that under its terms and conditions. But Mr W 
disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. He wanted the account re-instated.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She found that while  NewDay was entitled to 
make a business decision to close Mr Ws account   under its terms and conditions, it 
should usually  give two months written  notice to a customer when ending  an agreement. But 
she couldnt see this had happened. 
She thought  the statements did lead Mr W to believe the account was open and she could 
understand it mustve  been upsetting when he realised it wasnt. So she originally 
recommended £250  compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But both NewDay  and 
Mr W disagreed  with this. 
NewDay explained that it looked  like a block on interest had been  applied to Mr Ws card 
around the time he says he raised  his financial difficulties  with the previous administrator. 
This was likely intended as a temporary measure until Mr Ws financial situation improved. 
But for reasons  it cant explain, no interest has been  applied since  that point. So it thinks the 
extended benefit of zero interest on the outstanding  balance, far outweighs  any further 
compensation Mr W could reasonably expect in this case. So it didnt think  it should pay 
anything more.
Mr W said the amount offered didnt reflect the many  untoward effects the situation had on 
him and family members at his address. He said hes suffered a financial disadvantage  and 
NewDay has broken  the law. The investigator asked Mr W for more  information about what 
these effects were  but she didnt receive a response from him.
On further consideration of the matter, the investigator  issued a second view in which  she 
explained that while she agreed there had been  an error made by NewDay,  Mr W did have a 
significant benefit from not being  charged interest  on the balance. And on reflection of the 
Ref: DRN7003794impact of the situation, she thought  that £100 compensation for trouble and upset was a 
fairer amount.
NewDay agreed to pay £100 compensation. But we didnt hear back from Mr W. So the case  
was passed to me for decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2018. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr W thinks NewDay has broken the law by not notifying  him about the change 
to his account. So he thinks his account should  be reinstated  or the debt should be 
written off. When  considering a complaint,  I take relevant legislation  and regulation into 
account. I also consider  industry best practice. But, ultimately, I have to decide  what I think  
is fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying Im aware Mr W hasnt been  paying interest  on this account since 2012. 
And this means  hes had a financial benefit from what  may well have been an error  on 
either NewDays  or the previous administrators  part. But this is separate to the issue I 
need to consider in this complaint, which is whether NewDay  acted fairly when closing 
Mr Ws credit card account. So I dont think its necessary to make a finding  on this point.
Im satisfied that NewDay was entitled  to decide to close Mr Ws account.  Its terms and 
conditions provide for that. They also say: Unless  there are exceptional circumstances 
well give you two months written notice if we decide to end this agreement. 
NewDay hasnt provided anything to indicate  it notified Mr W before closing his account. 
And Mr W says he wasnt contacted about this. When he lost his card, he called NewDay 
to organise a replacement. And I agree that the monthly statements Mr W received did 
suggest he could  spend on the card. So I think its more likely than not Mr W was unaware 
this account was no longer active  which would suggest he wasnt told about it. 
It follows, that based on the information available, I think theres been an error  made  by 
NewDay in failing to properly notify Mr W of this in line with its terms and conditions. And I 
think it sent out misleading information  to Mr W. 
But Ive already explained that its within its rights to close the account. So I have to 
consider what wouldve  happened had NewDay properly informed Mr W of this. And I cant  
see that Mr W wouldve been in a different position to the one hes in now.  The account 
would still be closed,  hed still have a balance to pay off  the only difference is that hed 
have had notification  of it happening. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in this 
case to ask NewDay to reinstate  the account  or write off debt that Mr W is responsible 
for. 
Mr W has also mentioned the trouble and upset the situation has caused. Based on what  I 
do know at this stage,  its my understanding Mr W hadnt tried to use the card before he 
lost it. He told us hed agreed  with the previous administrator hed contact it when he 
wanted to start spending on the card again.  I cant see he did that, so this suggests that 
while he may well have  thought the card was active, he didnt  seem  to have a need  to use 
it. So I dont think there  was any trouble and upset caused up until he found out the card 
was closed.
Ref: DRN7003794At this point Im persuaded Mr W genuinely  believed his card could be used at a future 
stage. And the statements  he received from NewDay and the failure to properly notify him 
only reinforced this. Its not unreasonable to think  that discovering this wasnt the case  
would be upsetting, and wouldve likely come as a surprise.  So based  on what  Ive seen so 
far, I think £100 compensation for this is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. So this 
is what I intend to ask NewDay to pay to Mr W to put things  right.
Mr W has mentioned  impacts at his address. Without any further  information  on this, I cant  
know what these impacts  are. Mr W can respond to this provisional  decision with more  
information if he wishes. But I think he may be referring to something related to his credit 
file; if this account is showing as open  on his credit file, it may indicate  that he has credit  
available to spend. In its response  to this provisional  decision, NewDay should  provide me 
with information  about what it has recorded on Mr Ws credit file and, in particular, whether 
it has reported the account as closed. 
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional decision is that I think NewDay Ltd should 
pay Mr W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I asked both parties to send me anything else theyd  like me to consider before  I made  my 
final decision. NewDay accepted my provisional decision and it sent me information about 
how the credit card account is recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file.
Mr W didnt accept my provisional decision.  In summary, he:
 
1)thinks the logic is flawed, biased and unacceptable;
2)questions why I said I wouldnt  make  a finding  on the fact that interest  hadnt  been 
charged, but then later stated that hed benefitted from this;
3)disagrees that it may have been  a mistake that interest hasnt been  charged since  
2012. He says he was told interest would be charged at a future stage by agreement, 
and that the account  wouldnt be terminated;
4)accepts that NewDay  has the right to reach  a business decision on an account,  but 
because he wasnt notified,  he doesnt  accept the way the decision was made;
5)says NewDay has been  inadequate and unresponsive in his dealings with it. And its 
failed to provide  him with a copy of his original signed credit agreement; 
6)says his credit status and also his familys, has been affected by NewDay.
More recently, Mr W has sent a further  response stating that hes recently had a credit card 
application declined,  and he thinks this is the fault of NewDay,  as its with a company that 
previously offered him credit. And he says that in a recent telephone  conversation  with 
NewDay, it said it would re-open his credit card account  if this service instructs  it to do so. 
So hes asked that I do this in my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying, part of NewDays rationale for not paying further compensation to Mr W, 
was because it felt hed already benefitted significantly from a lack of interest being charged 
on his card. 
Ref: DRN7003794In my provisional decision,  I accepted  thered been  a financial benefit to Mr W because of 
this, but I didnt think this had any bearing  on the complaint thats been brought  to me to 
consider. Thats why I didnt make  a finding on the matter. 
So it follows  that regardless of whether  there was a mistake or not with interest on the card  
its a separate  issue as to whether NewDay acted fairly when closing Mr Ws account. And 
thats what I have  to look at in this complaint in deciding a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr W accepts  that NewDay  was within its rights  to end the agreement it had with him. But he 
disagrees with how it did it. I agree with him. It shouldve  given him notice. Thats  why I think 
he should fairly receive some compensation.
It looks like NewDay  has recorded the credit card account as active on Mr Ws credit  file. 
This would suggest  the account  is still open  and available for use, but NewDay  says the 
account is closed.  It should  therefore  amend Mr Ws credit record  to accurately reflect the 
status of the credit card account.
Mr W says that the information  NewDay has put on his credit file has had a negative  effect 
on his and his familys credit status. But he hasnt provided anything  to back that up. And, 
from the information NewDay has sent me about how its recorded Mr Ws credit  card on his 
credit file, I cant  see any adverse information  that I think would likely lead to Mr W 
experiencing the credit issues hes explained to us. So based on the information Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded that NewDays actions  have been the reason Mr W has issues  with his 
credit status. So these points dont change  my conclusion, and I wont be requiring NewDay  
to pay any compensation  in relation  to this.
Im aware Mr W is unhappy with the service hes received from NewDay  prior to approaching 
this service. And that it hasnt provided him with a copy  of his original credit  agreement.  
NewDay has explained that because his card was taken out quite some time ago  and the 
fact that administration of the account has changed in that period  its taken it longer to look 
into things. Its also meant  it has limited information  available for Mr Ws account. While I 
understand this is unfortunate,  given  the time thats passed, I dont think this is particularly 
unusual. So these  points  dont change my conclusion.  
Ive considered the more recent  point  Mr W has made, about NewDay re-opening the 
account if this service directs it to do so. If I made that direction and Mr W accepted it, 
NewDay would have  to comply. But Im not doing  so, as Im satisfied that NewDay  was 
entitled to decide to close Mr Ws account.  The error isnt with the account being closed  
but rather that NewDay didnt tell Mr W as it shouldve done. 
I think Mr W suffered  some disappointment  and loss of expectation because of all this. I still 
consider £100  is a fair award  to reflect that. I know  this isnt the outcome Mr W is hoping for, 
but I can assure him Ive considered all of his points carefully, and I think  the outcome is fair 
for the reasons set out above.
Ref: DRN7003794my final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should:
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Amend Mr Ws credit file to accurately  record the status  of his credit card account as 
no longer having  an available line of credit.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7003794