K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  (Advantage)  have mishandled  
his motor insurance claim.
background
Mr C holds a motor  insurance policy with Advantage and made a claim under his policy  after 
being involved in an accident on 10 December 2018. The vehicle was declared  to be a total 
loss and Advantage deemed Mr C to be at fault given that he emerged from a minor road 
and into the path of an oncoming vehicle. 
Mr C complained because  he didnt agree that he was at fault as the third-party vehicle hit 
his vehicle, and he felt Advantages investigation regarding liability  was inadequate.  He was 
also unhappy with the way Advantage had handled  his claim, particularly because they failed 
to collect his vehicle  following  the accident, which had resulted parking fines  from the local 
council. 
Advantage upheld Mr Cs complaint in relation to the parking fines,  as they conceded  that 
they ought to have  collected the vehicle sooner, so they issued him with a cheque  for £105 
so that he could settle the fine. However,  they did not consider  they had acted unreasonably 
by admitting liability and recording the loss as a fault claim. Mr C was unhappy  with this. He 
did not consider  that he was responsible for paying the parking fine and said Advantage 
should have to pay this. As a result, he was pursued  by the council and eventually  had to 
pay an increased fine of around £400  after enforcement action was taken against him. Mr C 
submits that Advantage are liable to pay this. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He considered that it was at the insurers  
discretion as to whether to admit  liability or not. The investigator also didnt think  they were  
liable to pay the increased parking fine as it was Mr Cs responsibility to pay this, and 
because Advantage had already sent enough money to cover the fine before the council 
took enforcement action.  
Mr C disagreed but did not provide  any reasons. So the matter  has been passed  to me to 
determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Liability
The policy terms and conditions state:
When claiming under the policy
When defending  or settling  a claimIf  they feel its appropriate,  your insurer will be 
entitled to admit liability, for the costs covered under this policy on behalf  of you or 
any person claiming  indemnity under the policy .
Ref: DRN72889712This gives Advantage the contractual right to settle  a claim or admit liability  if they consider it 
appropriate. They do not need the policyholders consent in order  to do so, but any such 
decision must still be reasonable  in the circumstances of the claim.
In these circumstances, the third-party  said that Mr C was at fault. Advantage considered  the 
matter, which was investigated by their liability  team, who also concurred that Mr C was 
likely at fault given  that he emerged  from a minor road and into the path of an established 
vehicle. Mr C is unhappy that Advantage did not attempt to obtain a police report  or 
statements from witnesses. But based on the circumstances of the accident, as well as 
established legal principles, I dont think it was inappropriate  for Advantage to concede 
liability in these circumstances  without obtaining  any further evidence. So I dont  think  
theyve acted unfairly by deeming Mr C to be at fault.
Handling of the claim
In terms of the parking charges, Advantage have conceded that they could have  removed 
Mr Cs vehicle sooner which would have avoided the parking fine. So they agreed to cover 
the amount of the fine at £105 so that Mr C could  pay it, which is what  I would expect in the 
circumstances. But Mr C refused to pay the fine as he considered it was Advantages 
responsibility, which resulted in the fine increasing  to around £400.
I can see that Mr C was served with a penalty  notice by the council on 12 February 2019 for 
the amount of £105. This gave him up until 26 February 2019 (14 days) to settle the fine, 
following which enforcement action would be taken. Mr C forwarded this letter  on to 
Advantage, and they sent Mr C a payment for £105 on 19 February 2019 so that he could 
settle the fine. 
I appreciate that Mr C considers the parking fine to be Advantages responsibility given that 
they failed to remove the vehicle from the road. But while this may make  them  liable for the 
amount of the fine, I do not consider them  to be liable  for paying it. The penalty notice sent 
by the council stated: As the registered owner/keeper/hirer of the above vehicle you are 
responsible for the Penalty Charge Notice detailed above. So I think  its clear that it was 
Mr Cs responsibility to pay this. And given  that Advantage sent him the money before the 
deadline to pay the fine, Im satisfied that it could have been  settled  at this point for the 
lesser amount of £105. But Mr C did not pay the fine, so I think he has failed to mitigate  his 
losses in this regard,  meaning it would not be fair and reasonable to hold Advantage liable 
for the increased  fine.
And in terms of how the rest of Mr Cs claim was handled, Im not persuaded there were  any 
other failings  that would warrant compensation  in these circumstances. So I will not be 
directing them to pay anything more than the £105 they have already offered for the parking 
fine.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Ref: DRN72889713Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7288971