K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  their lifetime equity release mortgage  with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.  In particular they say:
it is an unfair, complicated and consumer-unfriendly  product;
the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) is linked to an obscure, difficult-to-follow Gilt. 
Aviva  failed to train its selling agent properly;
To settle  the complaint, Mr and Mrs F want Aviva to reimburse the ERC  they paid when they 
repaid their lifetime mortgage early.
background
In 2014, Mr and Mrs F took out a lifetime  mortgage with Aviva  following advice from an 
independent financial  adviser, which I will call AP. They borrowed £20,000 initially  and had a 
reserve facility of a further £53,000. In 2015, they borrowed a further £15,000.
On 10 April 2018, Mr and Mrs F repaid  the mortgage. The redemption figure included an 
ERC of just under £4,600.  
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs F complained to Aviva. They said that theyd made it clear to AP 
that theyd never intended to keep the mortgage  for life. Consequently, Mr and Mrs F 
considered Aviva was wrong to benchmark  its lifetime mortgages to a market which was 
exhibiting irrational behaviour and, specifically,  to such  a long-dated gilt where its price 
movement was only available on receipt  of an annual statement.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs F believe they were  victims of unforeseen circumstances due to the 
activities of central banks. Mr and Mrs F also say that AP was Avivas agent, and that AP 
was of the opinion that interest  rates would increase over time, which would be reflected in 
gilt yields   and consequently would  mean  thered be no ERC. Mr and Mrs F say that Aviva  
should take the movement in the bond markets into account and reimburse the ERC.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint and so it was brought  to us. An adjudicator  looked  at the 
complaint but didnt  think it should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs F asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr and Mrs F also complained about AP in relation to the sale of the product, and an 
ombudsman has issued  a final decision  on that complaint. The complaint wasnt  upheld.  In 
the circumstances, I will not comment further  on any issues concerning AP  except to say 
that, in the context of this current complaint against  Aviva, AP were  not Avivas  agents. They  
were Mr and Mrs Fs own independent financial advisers and so were  Mr and Mrs Fs 
agents.
The terms on which Aviva  offers products to customers  is a matter for its own commercial 
judgment. I have no power to tell Aviva  how to structure the ERC on a lifetime mortgage  
product. 
Ref: DRN76561292Im not persuaded the product is unclear, unfair or complicated. It is designed to run for the 
lifetime of the borrowers, and if it is repaid early, an ERC may be payable. Im satisfied that 
the mortgage offer explains how the ERC is charged  and gives examples of how it might be 
calculated. I think this is sufficiently clear to alert Mr and Mrs F that they might have to pay 
an ERC, up to a maximum of £5,000. 
The sales  training Aviva offers to independent financial advisers isnt an activity thats 
covered under our rules, as it relates to the general operation of Avivas  business, rather 
than the specific  regulated  activity of lending money  secured on land. In the circumstances, I 
wont be commenting further on this aspect of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, as its not within my 
remit to do so.
Likewise, activities of central banks in the wider bond markets are outside the scope of this 
specific complaint about whether or not Aviva  should have charged  the ERC.  I acknowledge 
the gilt yield ultimately  affects the ERC, but it was Mr and Mrs Fs decision to repay their 
mortgage, triggering the ERC.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs F were disappointed  to be charged the ERC when they repaid their 
equity release mortgage. But the ERC was charged  in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the contract they entered into. In the circumstances, I can see no basis  upon 
which it would be fair or reasonable  to expect Aviva to repay the ERC to Mr and Mrs F.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656129