K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 26 loans Sunny provided to Mr M between December 2014  and 
June 2018. These loans  consisted of one flex-loan  and 25 pay day loans. The loans ranged 
from £100 to £600.
An adjudicator assessed Mr Ms complaint and thought  that loans 6 onwards  shouldnt have 
been given to Mr M. She thought this because Mr Ms pattern  of borrowing indicated that he 
had become persistently reliant on short term lending. Sunny disagreed with this view, 
explained that it carried out proportionate checks and Mr Ms borrowing pattern did not 
suggest he was reliant  on short term lending. However, it did agree to make an offer on 
loans 17 to 26. This offer was outlined to Mr M but he chose not to accept it. Whilst the case  
was awaiting an ombudsman review  another adjudicator reviewed the case and thought  
loans 7 to 26 should be upheld. Neither party responded  to this opinion.   
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to me  on ombudsman  for a
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN70247772I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  needed to more when it approved  loans 1 to 6. Mr M 
didnt disagree  with the adjudicators opinion about  these loans so I wont be making  further 
findings on them although  I will consider them when looking  at Mr Ms overall financial 
situation.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt
have provided  any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
7. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to repay his loans
sustainably. Mr M had taken out 7 loans in less than 6 months.  Mr M had also 
borrowed multiple times in quick succession  for example loans 1 and 2 were  taken  
out within days of each other. And then loans  3 and 4 were also taken out just over a 
week apart. This and the number of loans  Mr M had taken in such  a short  period of 
time means  Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances. This in turn meant that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £100 and loan 7 was for £150. The amounts  in-between  
varied and by loan 7 they were increasing  again. Some  of Mr Ms debts were also 
overlapping. At this point Sunny ought  to have known that Mr M was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
Sunny  says it allows customers to have  to have a maximum of four loans up to a
certain credit limit. However, I dont think this means Mr Ms borrowing  was 
sustainable as it means  Mr M was increasing his borrowing  to supplement  his income  
and there  was no indication his reliance  on short term credit  was coming to an end.
Sunny  also says Mr M settled loans  early, which means he wasnt  in financial
hardship. But I dont  think this means Mr M was managing his finances effectively,
and often early settlement  of a loan can be an indication of issues with debt
Ref: DRN70247773management.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  7 was 
taken out around six months after Mr Ms first and his final loan was taken out almost 
two years after his first. Mr M had paid large  amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service 
a debt to Sunny over an extended  period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to
have had negative  implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 7 onwards and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr M loans 7 to 26.
A.)Sunny  should add together the total of the repayments made by towards  interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including  anything it has already refunded.
B.)Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Mr M which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date originally Mr M 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.)Sunny  should  pay the total of A plus B.
D.)The overall pattern  of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 7 to 26 means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove  these loans entirely 
from Mr Ms credit file. If Sunny has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision
before 1 June  2020.
Ref: DRN70247774Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7024777