K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is complaining about the arrears that Erudio  Student  Loans Limited (Erudio) is 
asking her to repay on her student  loan. 
background
Mrs C has a student loan managed by Erudio. Mrs Cs account had gone  into arrears in 
2017, after a deferral application form (DAF) that was sent to her in February 2017 by the 
Student Loans  Company  (SLC) was not completed  and returned. The arrears were  
subsequently cleared  upon receipt of a later DAF that was backdated. 
Another twelve month deferment  term for Mrs Cs loan expired  in April 2018. As Erudio had 
not received any new DAF and no direct debit for repayment was in place, the account  
began to go into arrears.  
Mrs C said that she was making student  loan repayments. However, Erudio  have said that 
these were for another  student loan managed by a different  company. Mrs C contacted 
Erudio as she felt that she should  have been given  prior notice that the account was due to 
fall into arrears in April 2018, as no direct  debit was in place at the end of the deferment 
period. Erudio says that it was the responsibility  of Mrs C to ensure that repayments were 
being made. 
They say that a DAF was sent in February, two months prior to the deferment period ending 
and that it wasnt  completed and returned.  This was also the case  when a new DAF was 
sent to Mrs C twice in May 2018. A new DAF was however, returned by Mrs C in         
August 2018.  The deferment term began and was backdated to June 2018. However, the 
arrears on the loan remained for April and May 2018. 
Mrs Cs complaint was rejected by Erudio and she brought  it to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. They felt that 
Erudio had acted  fairly  and in line with the terms of the agreement.  
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator and so the case has been passed to me. She felt 
that she had been making  loan repayments  and should have been  told sooner if this account 
had fallen into arrears.  Mrs C has also said that she did not receive a DAF in May 2018 and 
called to chase  this. She has also said that Erudio were slow in getting  back  to her and her 
attempts to resolve this matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs C feels that she wasnt given sufficient  notice that the account was due to fall into 
arrears in April 2018.  She says that she was under the impression that she was making 
repayments. The evidence I have seen, suggests that these payments were for a different 
student loan, which is income contingent and repaid through her salary. Her loan being  
managed by Erudio  was deferred every year since 2007 and she was not making loan 
repayments for it. There have also not been  any direct debit details in place since  2007, and 
these were prior to when  the loan was managed by Erudio. 
Ref: DRN79541382However, Mrs C feels that she should  have been  given prior notice  that repayments were  
going to be due and that she had no direct debit in place. The terms and conditions  of this 
loan account do not require Erudio  to inform the consumer  if there  is no active direct  debit.  
Mrs C was written  to by Student Loans Company in February 2018, as she was in February 
2017. This letter gave two months notice that payments will be due as of the current 
deferment end date.  However, this letter only refers to another  loan managed by a different 
company and gives another loan reference, not Mrs Cs Erudio loan reference.  
Erudio has said that SLC send these letters and that they are relevant for all loans with a 
deferment period  due to end. However, I have been  provided with a copy  of the letters  sent 
to Mrs C in 2017  and 2019. On these occasions,  the letters include all her loan numbers for 
Erudio and other loan management companies.  So, I do not think the letter in February 2018 
gave sufficient notice  of the end of the deferment period. 
Despite the error with this letter, Mrs C was written to after her account had gone into arrears 
in April and May. She received these letters as she contacted Erudio in response.  She was 
then sent two DAFs in May 2018, but did not return a completed form until August. At this 
point the deferral was backdated  and arrears cleared, as had been  done  in 2017. 
Mrs C has said that she did not receive a DAF in May and chased this by phone and email. I 
still think Mrs C could have done more to complete and return a DAF sooner, to renew the 
deferral period. If she had done  this, I am satisfied that it would have been backdated and 
there would be no arrears on the account.  So taking everything into account, I think Erudio 
did give enough notice  about the deferment to prevent  Mrs C being in arrears. 
I know that this isnt the outcome that Mrs C hoped for. I hope that Ive clearly explained the 
reasons for my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7954138