K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lowell Financial Ltd wrongly  registered a debt on his credit file even  
though he had already  repaid it in full.
background
In July 2014 Mr H took out a loan, which he defaulted on in June 2015. He says that he 
repaid the outstanding balance in full in April 2018. The account  was sold to Lowell in May 
2018. Lowell  then received the repayment from the original lender but its records showed 
that Mr H still owed  £13. It has registered this as outstanding on Mr Hs credit file.
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. She said that as soon  as Mr H 
had complained to Lowell it had written off the amount outstanding in its records and 
reported his account as satisfied with the credit  reference agencies. It also paid him £75 for 
reporting the account as active in August 2018.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that he didnt understand how Lowell  could have 
bought a debt in May 2018  when he had repaid the loan in full in April 2018. There wasnt  
any debt.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can quite understand  Mr Hs concern and frustration. He says that he was told by the 
original lender the amount  he needed to pay to settle in full the loan.  He made  this payment 
in April 2018 and yet four months  later he was told that there  was still a small debt 
outstanding and this has been reported  on his credit  file.
It seems  that Lowell agreed to buy outstanding debts from Mr Hs former lender at or around 
the end of March  2018. At that time Mr H still owed  £878.47. So Mr Hs account was 
included in the purchase of debts even though he had repaid it between the sale agreement 
and the completion  of the debt transfer.
Mr Hs original lender told Lowell that he had repaid £871.83 in May 2018. This meant that a 
debt of £6.64 was showing as outstanding. In August the lender told Lowell to make  some 
adjustments. It appears that it asked Lowell to write off a negative  figure. The effect of this 
was to increase  the debt. But Lowell has said that some adjustments were  wrongly  made in 
reverse. I consider that Mr Hs account was more likely than not one of those wrongly 
adjusted and the account should have shown as fully satisfied from early June. 
Lowell has adjusted the balance and the account is now showing as settled. This was 
reported to the credit  reference agencies in September. But Lowell had already reported an 
outstanding debt of £13 in August 2018. It has apologised to Mr H for this and paid £75 for 
not reporting the account as settled in August. Lowell  has said that just one of the credit 
reference agencies  was showing a debt of £13 in August, the other  two showed the account 
as settled. It has confirmed that it has now amended Mr Hs credit file to remove  the £13 
debt in August  so the account  shows as settled.
Ref: DRN72982182I do appreciate that Mr H is concerned about  his credit rating and how this may affect  him in 
trying to get credit elsewhere. The original default  of this loan was recorded in June 2015 
and, even though the loan has been repaid, the default will remain on Mr Hs file for six 
years.
I know Mr H thinks  that Lowell  shouldnt  be reporting  anything  at all on his file because he 
had repaid the debt before it became involved. But Lowell is required  to record the factual 
information about the conduct of the account with the credit reference  agencies. As Ive 
explained the information on the credit file shows the status and balance history and remains  
on the file for six years. After updating  the August  entry Lowell has reported  the default  as 
being satisfied.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint now that Lowell Financial Ltd has 
amended Mr Hs credit file to show the loan as settled for August 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7298218