K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained to us about being mis-sold a regular premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander),  trading 
at the time as National & Provincial  Building Society.
background
Mr and Mrs K bought the PPI policy in November 1990 when they were arranging  a 
mortgage. 
The mortgage was in joint names and it appears likely that PPI was also taken out in 
joint names. 
Mr and Mrs K say they werent told anything about  how the policy  worked and didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case recommended the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs K say they took the PPI out when they were at a meeting in a 
branch. Santander  has told us that it made a recommendation to them about taking out the 
cover. That means  I will need to look at whether the policy  was suitable for them, given their 
circumstances, and whether the information Santander gave them  was clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
Ill first look out whether  Mr and Mrs K agreed  to buy the policy,  having noted they say 
they have no recollection of agreeing  to take it. 
Unfortunately, I havent seen any paperwork  from the sale,  which  isnt unusual  given 
that its been quite some time since Mr and Mrs K bought the PPI. But Ive seen a 
sample of the application form they would  have completed at the time.  On the form they 
would have been able to specify if they wanted to take out PPI by putting  a tick in box. 
So I think its likely they would have  been aware  of having a choice about whether or 
not they wanted to buy the cover. After that, they would  then have been  asked to 
complete a separate PPI application form on which they would have been asked to 
specify further details  about the cover, including the amount of cover  they wanted.  
I can appreciate that given that the sale happened more than 30 years ago, they may not 
recall the specifics of how the sale happened.  But from what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs K 
were or ought to have been  aware that they were offered the cover and that they didnt have 
to take it out if they didnt want it. 
Ref: DRN70687312It looks as if Mr and Mrs K would both have been eligible for the cover. I see that Mr K told 
us about a medical condition he says hed had since around  1980 but it seems that this 
was controlled by medication and hadnt  resulted in his taking any time off work. So 
although this condition may have  been excluded under  the policy terms, I dont think  that 
alone would  have necessarily meant Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about this particular exclusion.  And the cost of the policy,  being £16.66 per 
month, seems comparable with others that I know  were being marketed at the time.
Mr and Mrs K told us they were each  entitled  to receive  employer benefits  of up three  
months if they were  unable to work. The PPI could pay out for up to 24 months if either 
of them  was unable  to work  or were to lose their job. The benefit would be paid in 
addition to their work benefits and other personal  resources they might have had, such 
as savings. And whilst  Mr K told us he had death  in service benefit, thats something 
payable only on death so it wouldnt be useful to them  in the same way as having PPI 
cover. Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was likely to have been a significant financial 
commitment and policies  like this are there to help in financially difficult  times. Given the 
implications if they couldnt keep up payments, I think this policy could be viewed as a 
sensible precaution.
So whilst I cant say for sure why Mr and Mrs K wanted the cover,  I can see how it 
would have been of use to them given  their circumstances. It follows that I dont think  
the recommendation was unreasonable and I dont think the policy  was unsuitable  for 
them.
Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs K information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could  make an informed decision about buying  the policy. I realise that 
whilst its likely they were given information  about the policy  at the time, Ive no way of 
knowing if they took  time to review this. But for the reasons Ive already given, I cant  see 
they were disadvantaged  by taking it out. 
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ks particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  - for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and I dont require 
Santander UK Plc to do anything.
Ref: DRN70687313Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7068731