K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr S payment  protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  started in 1992  and was to 
cover a mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I reached  a different view to 
that of the adjudicator and so I sent out a provisional decision and asked for comments  and 
any new evidence. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents 
from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone  to recall in detail 
everything that happened about 27 years ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As 
with all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened,  based on 
what evidence there is. 
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because  Mr S 
suffered from a medical condition when he started  the PPI, and so wouldnt have 
been covered  for claims related to that condition. The adjudicator  said that, because  
of this, Santander shouldnt have recommended the PPI.
I know this will disappoint Mr S, but Ive reached  a different view. Its true that Mr S 
could have had difficulty making a claim  for something related to his medical 
condition. But I dont  think its likely to have put him off taking the PPI, even if hed 
been told of that limitation in the PPI policy. This is because Mr S has told us he was 
diagnosed more than 10 years before the PPI started. And because I can see that, in 
another recent complaint  he brought to us, he gave us more detail about the effect of 
the condition on him. He told us that the condition didnt have a significant impact  on 
his daily activities; he used occasional  medication  on an as needed  basis;  he didnt 
need to visit a health professional regularly or routinely for this; and the condition  
has not, to date, required me to take any time off work.   
So my current view is that its unlikely  Mr S would have expected to have to make  a 
claim arising from his medical condition.  And all the other  protection still offered by 
the PPI could have seemed useful to him. So, even if Santander had drawn the 
limitation to his attention, I think its unlikely to have  affected whether he took the PPI. 
Ive also looked  at whether there  were  other  possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think  they apply to this case. I will explain 
why.
Ref: DRN71426882Mr S has said he was pressured into taking the PPI. The problem I have, in making a 
decision on this, is that I cant know the exact words used by the Santander 
employee and the tone in which they were  said. It isnt necessarily  wrong to strongly  
advise someone  to buy an insurance  policy,  even  if the adviser is partly motivated by 
making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth recommending.  
The closer  it gets to making  someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to 
taking the policy,  the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what  
was said. And it wouldnt  be fair to conclude that Santander did something wrong 
unless I had stronger  evidence of this. 
I also dont have any strong evidence to show that Santander failed to make Mr S 
aware the PPI was optional. Without  clearer evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
say that Santander acted  wrongly in that way.
Santander has said it recommended  the PPI to Mr S, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr Ss particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  Being  unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr S received any employer  sick pay, and potentially for much  longer. 
It would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when  he would need  to fall back on any savings. 
This all would have  put Mr S in a more secure  position, if he eventually  lost income 
due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been  told anything  to 
suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when  he took it out. So I think  the PPI would have 
been potentially  useful.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  
But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr S took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt clearly point out the other main things the policy didnt  
cover. But its unlikely Mr S would  have been affected by any of these. Its likely he 
was eligible for the policy,  and hed be paying  for it monthly, so he could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if his situation  changed.
I didnt receive any comments in response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN71426883Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142688