K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont  refund to him the 
money that he paid for some goods.  
background
Mr Ss wife used her additional card on Mr Ss American Express credit card account in 
January 2018  to pay £3,281.58 for some goods from a store in another country that were  to 
be delivered to an address in that country.  The goods werent received so Mr S contacted 
the store, the delivery company and American  Express. American Express didnt respond  to 
him so he complained to this service. 
Mr S has also made a complaint to this service about another  purchase that was to be 
delivered in the same  circumstances  and which also hasnt  been  received. That complaint is 
being dealt with separately.
American Express then offered him £100  compensation  for not addressing  his complaint  
about these goods when  it responded to him about the other purchase.  The investigator 
didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. She thought that American Express  
had fulfilled its obligation to fairly consider Mr Ss claim for a chargeback  and that there  
hadnt been a breach of contract by the store.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that:
hes provided tracking information  to show that the delivery was made to another  
address;
he doesnt recognise the signature on the delivery receipt;
hes provided evidence to show that the only delivery made  to the delivery  address 
around the time of the delivery was not the goods from the store;
the delivery company has issued claim details to the store  for it to reclaim the cost of 
the goods in full from the delivery company  and it would only issue claim details once 
it had completed its investigations and concluded  that the goods werent delivered; 
and
American Express should now issue a refund and reclaim it from the store  which can 
reclaim it from the delivery  company.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that the goods werent  received and hes provided the evidence that hes gathered  
to show that the goods werent  delivered.  American  Express has investigated Mr Ss claim 
for a refund including evidence from the store  and the delivery company that the goods had 
been delivered. That includes the order details  from the store showing that the goods were  
sent to the correct address and the signed delivery receipt from the delivery company. So it 
says that the supporting documentation shows that the goods were delivered.  
Although initially  it didnt respond  to Mr Ss claim about these goods, I consider that it has 
now properly investigated it and that its fair and reasonable for it to conclude  on the basis  of 
Ref: DRN75130312that investigation that the goods  were delivered so it shouldnt  refund the payment to Mr Ss 
account. 
Im not persuaded that American Express is liable to refund the payment to Mr S under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in these circumstances. Thats because I dont 
consider that the supplier has breached its contract with Mr S or that it misrepresented the 
goods - because it sent the goods to the correct  address.
Mr S says that the delivery company has accepted that the goods werent delivered and that 
its provided claim details to the store  and that the store can then claim from the delivery  
company (and I would then expect the store to refund the payment to Mr S). But Ive not 
seen enough evidence to show that the delivery company has agreed to refund £3,281.58  
(or its equivalent in the local currency) to the store and I dont consider it to be likely that the 
store has received such a payment from the delivery  company. I suggest that Mr S continues  
his contact with the store  about claiming a refund from the delivery company. 
I sympathise with Mr S for the difficulties that hes been caused and I understand the 
frustration that he feels. But Im not persuaded that American Express  is liable to him for 
those issues or that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it 
to refund £3,281.58 to him.
American Express has offered £100 compensation to Mr S because  it didnt address  his 
complaint about  these  goods when it responded to him about the other purchase. Its 
apologised for that and has offered  him compensation  for the inconvenience  that he was 
caused. I consider  it to be fair and reasonable that American Express should pay him £100 
compensation  but I dont consider that it would  be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require it to take any other  action in response to his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that American Express Services  Europe  Limited  should  
pay £100 compensation to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7513031