K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about a car finance agreement she took out with Suzuki  Financial Services  
Limited (Suzuki FSL) in 2015. She says she wasnt correctly  informed  about  the full details of 
the finance agreement as she wasnt made aware of the final balloon payment of £3,548.  
Ms S has been represented in her complaint  by a family member  but for simplicity  Ill refer to 
all submissions from Ms S and the family  as if theyve been made by Ms S. 
background
In May 2011  Ms S acquired a car through Suzuki  FSL on finance. She part exchanged her 
previous car and this was used towards  the purchase price  of £10,599 of the new car. The 
difference, £5,125, was on finance and was to be repaid  at £85.41  over 60 months. The 
finance was arranged on a 0% interest rate. There was no balloon payment and once Ms S 
had made  all the repayments she would  own the car. 
In early 2015 Ms S says she was contacted  by the car dealership offering the chance to 
replace her existing car. Ms S says she was happy with the make and model she had but 
was about to retire and decided to buy a newer  model that she would  then keep through  
retirement. 
The purchase price of the new car was again  £10,599 and Ms S put £4,185 towards  the 
purchase price through part exchanging her existing car. The difference  between  the two, 
£6,413, was put to the finance agreement and like the previous car was arranged on a 0% 
interest rate. The term of the new finance  was 42 months and the initial  monthly repayment 
was £69.95, followed by 40 months  at £69.89. The final payment was £3,548.
Very shortly after driving the new car Ms S returned  to the dealership  to highlight a clunking 
noise when she changed through the gears. Some discussions were had with the dealership  
and Ms S says she was initially  told the gearbox would be replaced. Ms S says that because 
of the car being new she would prefer the car to be replaced, rather than have a 
replacement gearbox.  Further  discussions followed with the dealership  and Ms S says that 
she was then told there was no problem with the gearbox and what  she had experienced 
was a characteristic of that particular model.  The same characteristic would therefore be 
present in any replacement model. 
Ms S then exchanged the car for a different model  and paid £3,899 towards  the cost of the 
higher specification model. The finance agreement for the car that had been replaced  
remained in force and it continued on the same  terms as it had been  set up, i.e. £69.89 per 
month followed by £3,548.
Towards the end of the finance agreement, around  mid-2018, Ms S was contacted by Suzuki 
FSL and it referred to the £3,548 final (balloon)  payment. Ms S raised a complaint at that 
time as she said she was unaware  there  was a final balloon payment and was under  the 
impression the finance agreement was the same as her previous  one, which simply had 
regular monthly repayments with a final payment for the same amount.  
The complaint was considered by Suzuki  FSL and Ms S then referred it to our service  as she 
was unhappy  with the response.  One of our investigators reviewed the case  and set out why 
she did not find there were sufficient  grounds  to uphold the complaint. In summary,  she 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  to indicate  Ms S was misled about the terms of the 
Ref: DRN71904502finance agreement. Ms S didnt accept  the investigators findings and after some  further  
discussion asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.  
The complaint was therefore  referred to me for final consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I believe I will disappoint 
Ms S further as I have come to the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator, for what  are 
broadly the same reasons.  
In 2015 Ms S had a car on finance and says she was contacted by the dealership  about  
replacing the car. Ms S says she was soon to be retired and wanted to replace her existing 
car for a newer model. She said that she explained  at the time that she wanted the same 
type of finance  agreement  for the new car and she said she intended to settle the finance  
when her pension  lump sum came through. She says that she specifically asked that the 
finance was the same type of finance to what she had before and was told yes, its 0%. 
The dealership has said that the full details of the finance agreement  were made clear to Ms 
S and this includes the amounts due and the final balloon payment. It believes Ms S was 
fully informed at the time. 
I accept that Ms S is likely to have asked questions about the new finance agreement when 
taking it out and that she asked about it being the same as the previous one. Ms S has said 
that she was specifically told yes its the same and then told its a 0% interest rate. I cant be 
certain of exactly what was discussed  between the parties at the time. But its possible there 
may have  been  a misunderstanding between the dealership and Ms S about the agreement 
being the same  and perhaps the emphasis was focused on the 0% interest rate. 
The interest rate is of course a significant  factor, especially if Ms S would soon be receiving 
a lump sum for her retirement that could  be used to pay for a car, rather  than taking out an 
interest bearing finance agreement. Being 0% interest Ms S wouldnt incur any interest costs 
and like the dealership has mentioned, Ms S could use any lump  sum payment for 
something else. 
I am of course speculating on what the parties  understood at the time and as Ive said I 
cannot be certain if this is or isnt correct. But I do think  theres enough information for Ms S 
to have reasonably  understood that the new finance agreement was not the same as the 
old one she was replacing. The cost of the new car was the same  as the previous one 
(£10,599) but because of the differing deposits from the part exchange values the amount of 
finance was different. The length  of the new finance  agreement was over 40 months, 
compared to the 60 months  on the finance agreement  that was being replaced. The monthly  
repayments of the new agreement were  also less than the replaced finance  agreement.  
Ms S was presented with the new finance agreement and this sets out all of the terms, 
amounts payable etc. for consideration. The terms are clearly set out and it was clear that 
there was a final payment of £3,548 due at the end of the agreement. Ms S has signed the 
finance agreement  indicating she was happy  with the terms of the agreement. 
Although I accept there would have been some discussion  about the new finance agreement  
and how this compared to the old one it replaced, I think it should  have  been  reasonably  
Ref: DRN71904503clear to Ms S that the new and old agreements were not the same. There  were  similarities 
and the interest  rates  were both 0% but there  were  other aspects that were  not the same. I 
realise that Ms S says she specifically  asked if the new agreement  was the same as the old 
but Im not persuaded Ms S was told that every  feature was exactly the same,  i.e. that there  
would be no larger balloon payment at the end. 
I again accept  there  could  have been a misunderstanding  and the focus may have been on 
the 0% element being the same.  But from what  Ive considered in this case  I dont think  I can 
find fault with the business for any misunderstanding  if it has happened.  
I also think its worth noting that as the finance  agreement was 0% interest Ms S would still 
have only paid the cash price of £10,599 for the car (Ill refer to the car being replaced later) 
and the reduced  monthly repayment effectively  pushed some of the cost to the end of the 
agreement with the larger balloon payment. Over the term of the agreement Ms S would not 
have paid more  because of the balloon payment. 
Ms S says that she used some of her retirement income to pay off her sons  student loan 
and she didnt therefore have the means to pay the balloon payment. The balloon payment 
has now been paid as Ms S says she borrowed the money from her partner. I appreciate this 
will have an impact on her financial arrangements but as Ive said above, Im not persuaded 
Ms S was misled at the time about the repayments needed under the agreement.  
The second  issue  in this case relates  to the quality of the car Ms S was supplied in 2015 and 
that the car was replaced shortly after it was supplied. Ms S says that soon after she got the 
car she noticed a noise  when changing gear so took the car back to the dealership. Although  
she was initially told there was a fault with the car she was then told there  was no problem 
and the noise was common to this particular make and model of car. 
I dont doubt there was a noise that prompted  Ms S to return to the dealership and like Ms S 
I find it strange if she was initially told this was a fault, only then to be told it wasnt. Suzuki  
FSL is responsible for the quality of the car supplied through the finance agreement and as 
the car was new it should have been free from even  minor defects. There  is however no way 
to establish now whether  or not the car was actually faulty or if it was, as the dealership  
suggests, simply a characteristic of the particular model. Without any further evidence  to 
demonstrate the car was defective Im unable to say that Suzuki FSL should do anything 
more. 
Ms S has said that she feels the dealership should  have been  clear that she had the right to 
reject the car at the time. But this would only apply if the car was actually faulty and this is 
something that was disputed at the time. I havent  seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate  
the car was actually  defective or not of satisfactory  quality. 
Ms S did replace the car with a different model from the same manufacturer  and the 
replacement was a sport version, or specification. As the replacement model was of higher 
specification Ms S was asked to pay an additional sum and the existing finance then 
continued as originally expected at £69.89 each month, with the final balloon payment. 
Its not clear why the existing finance  agreement  was not cancelled and replaced with a new 
one to reflect the replacement car, higher purchase  price and additional  payment  of £3,899 
Ms S paid. The additional amount Ms S paid does however appear to reflect  the higher 
purchase price of the sport  model. It would be unreasonable in my view to expect  Suzuki 
FSL to refund this amount  as Ms S will benefit  from driving the higher specification  and the 
Ref: DRN71904504higher resale  value  should she decide to sell it. As the finance agreement  remained in place 
it continued on the same 0% interest  terms and apart from the amount reflecting the higher 
specification, Ms S has not paid anything more. I also dont believe that Ms S has been 
caused any inconvenience by not being  provided  with a new replacement finance  agreement 
at the time.  
I note what Ms S says about not needing  the sport  model but its common for sport models 
to include additional  features other than sporty  features or just a bigger engine.  Although  
not the model of car she initially intended,  Ms S did however proceed with the replacement  
car and I must assume that she was happy to do so at the time. 
I again appreciate  that Ms S will remain unhappy  with the decision Ive come  to here but 
after very carefully considering all that has been  presented in this case Im not satisfied 
Suzuki FSL has done anything  wrong or treated Ms S unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint against Suzuki Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7190450