K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs M hold with Landmark  Mortgages Limited. 
Theyre unhappy that over an extended  period, Landmark (and its predecessor business) 
sent their annual statements to the wrong  address. 
background 
In 2006, Mr and Mrs M bought a buy-to-let property. Unfortunately, the address of this 
property was incorrectly set as the correspondence  address for their residential mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs M say they only found this out by chance in 2018 when, in preparation for a 
re-mortgage transaction, they looked  for their annual mortgage statements and realised they 
didnt have any.
When they complained  to Landmark, it was revealed that the business had received a call in 
2013 from the new owner of the buy-to-let  (Mr and Mrs M had sold it in 2013) telling it 
Mr and Mrs M no longer owned it. Landmark put a gone away  marker against the address 
but seemingly didnt manage  to contact Mr and Mrs M to re-establish the right address.
Landmark admitted  fault, apologised and offered Mr and Mrs M £250 compensation. When 
they referred the complaint to us, our investigator  recommended this be increased to £500. 
Landmark agreed, but Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, in particular Mr Ms emailed  
responses of the investigators view, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
This isnt a complaint where  I have to decide if a data breach  has happened; thats  not been 
in dispute since  Landmark first responded to the complaint.  All I have  to decide is how 
Mr and Mrs M should fairly be compensated. 
I can see how upset Mr and Mrs M are; no one likes to think others parties (in this case, as 
many as six former pairs  of tenants) might have had access  to personal financial 
information. But theres nothing to suggest  Mr and Mrs M have suffered financial detriment 
as a result  of that information being  accessible  by others. 
Thats not to say they never could suffer detriment. If something adverse did happen,  and 
Mr and Mrs M could  show that it had been caused  by the data breach,  then theyd have 
legitimate grounds  to make a fresh claim for financial loss. But we dont award compensation 
for something that might have happened  but hasnt.
Ref: DRN76674502We do award compensation for distress  and inconvenience caused, and for the time and 
trouble people are put to in bringing  a complaint. Here, our investigator assessed fair 
compensation at £500; in all the circumstances, I agree.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I direct  Landmark Mortgages  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £500 
compensation. My final decision  concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further  discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7667450