K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined to pay her claim 
on a life assurance policy following the death of her husband.  
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a joint level term assurance  policy, which  was attached  to their mortgage, in 
2012. The policy was taken out on an advised  basis using a tied agent of Legal and General, 
meaning Legal and General was ultimately  responsible for the advice given. 
Mr S unfortunately passed away earlier this year from heart  disease.  Mrs S submitted a claim to 
Legal and General but this was declined and the policy  was cancelled. Legal and General said this 
was because Mr S answered some  of the application questions incorrectly.
Legal and General said Mr S was asked whether he had suffered from a heart  condition,  such as a 
heart attack  or had heart surgery.  Mr S said he didnt. However, the medical information Legal and 
General received when assessing  the claim showed  that Mr S had a heart attack in 2001 and 
received care from a cardiac team over several years. He also had a stent inserted in 2003. 
Legal and General said that it considers the misrepresentation  by Mr S to be deliberate  or 
reckless. It says its reasonable  to assume that Mr S knew about his medical history  at the time of 
completing the policy application.  It said a heart  attack and heart surgery  are significant events 
which it would expect  Mr S to remember. So it cancelled the policy  back  to the start date and 
refunded all the premiums. 
Mrs S complained to Legal and General. It responded and said Mr S had made it aware  of his 
family history of heart  attacks  but didnt make any other  medical disclosures. It said had it been 
aware of his medical history it would have applied  a significant extra rating to Mr Ss premiums. 
Mrs S was unhappy with the response  and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Ss complaint. She said the question asked in relation to whether Mr S 
had ever had a heart condition was clear and Mr S shouldve answered,  yes. If he had, this 
wouldve affected the premiums charged  by Legal and General, which wouldve been subject to a 
200% loading. 
Our investigator thought the misrepresentation shouldve been classified as careless  rather than 
deliberate or reckless.  She said its unlikely Mr S wouldve forgotten  his medical history, but were 
unable to ask him why the question was answered  as it was. And the application  was completed 
with an advisor, so its impossible to know how questions  were presented to Mr S. In addition, Mr S 
had disclosed that his father, uncles and siblings all have medical  issues relating to their hearts  
and this suggests Mr S didnt take enough  care to ensure the answers hed given were correct. As 
serious negligence falls under the careless  classification, our investigator felt this was the more  
appropriate classification. 
Our investigator said that the correct remedy would  be to apply the loading and pay the 
proportionate sum assured plus 8% simple  interest  per year from the date the claim became 
payable. The amount already paid in refunded premiums should  be deducted from this. She said 
Legal and General should also pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Legal and General were unhappy  with the outcome and the complaint has been passed to me to 
review. It said a financial advisor assisted Mr S with the completion and submission of the 
application and its possible  that errors occurred. But after submission Mr S was sent a paper copy  
Ref: DRN76943632of his application, along with a declaration for him to sign to confirm the information in the 
application was accurate.  And this was signed by him. 
It also said that the application  didnt  ask about the medical history  of Mr Ss uncles and so Mr S 
declared one relative as having a listed condition. It also said the policy  taken out in 2012 replaced  
one taken out in 2007. And Mr S hadnt informed Legal and General of his medical  history  on that 
earlier application either. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 December 2018.  I explained  that I didnt intend to uphold Mrs 
Ss complaint. I gave  both parties  until 6 January 2019 to respond  with any further comments. 
Mrs S responded and said she is unhappy  with the change in outcome, as she was led to believe 
she would  receive  a proportion of the sum insured.  She also said she wasnt aware that the 2007 
policy was replaced  by the 2012  policy. Mrs S asked  for evidence that she and her late husband 
were informed of this. And Mrs S suggested that if this cant  be provided  then she should be 
refunded premiums paid between 2007  and 2012.  
Legal and General responded and said it accepts the decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im not upholding  Mrs Ss complaint. 
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services  longstanding approach to cases like this. It sets 
out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering into an insurance contract. 
CIDRA places the consumer under  a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation 
(i.e. to say something  untrue  or misleading), provided the insurer  has asked a clear question. If the 
consumer doesnt  take reasonable care to answer  questions accurately it sets out the remedies 
available to the insurer.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made,  Ive 
limited my response to the issues I consider  to be central to this complaint. That is to say whether 
Legal and General acted  fairly  in declining Mrs Ss claim, classifying the misrepresentation as 
deliberate / reckless and voiding the policy.
When Mr S applied  for the joint policy he was asked whether hed ever had a heart attack  or heart  
surgery and he answered, no to this. It was when Mrs S made a claim  following  his death that 
Legal and General requested medical  records and it came to light that Mr S answered the question 
incorrectly. All parties agree that Mr S didnt provide a complete account  of his medical history  and 
so a misrepresentation has occurred. The question is whether Legal and General acted fairly when 
it classified the misrepresentation  as deliberate/reckless and voided the policy. 
In order for the misrepresentation to be classed as deliberate or reckless, it needs to be shown that 
Mr S must have  known  that the answer given was incorrect  and also must have known that the 
answer was relevant to the insurer. 
Mr S cannot  be expected  to provide information that he wasnt  asked for, so I need to be satisfied 
that the relevant question was clear  and unambiguous. The difficulty here is that Mr S completed 
the policy application over the phone with a tied advisor. Call recordings or call notes are not 
available at this stage and so I have  no way of knowing  how the relevant question was put to him. 
Ref: DRN76943633However, I can see that Mr S was sent given a copy of the application paperwork to check  its 
accuracy and the need to check the medical information was highlighted at this point. Im satisfied 
that the question on the application form was clear  enough that when Mr S checked it he wouldve 
known it was answered incorrectly. 
This declaration was signed by Mr S to confirm he had checked the application information. On the 
form, Mr S asked  Legal and General to amend the spelling of his name and so its safe to assume 
he read the information provided and didnt  want  to make any other changes.  And it was Mr Ss 
responsibility to ensure  he read the entire  form to ensure its accuracy.  So Im satisfied that even 
though I cant  be certain  how the relevant question was put to Mr S, he checked the information he 
provided and confirmed its accuracy.  
Ordinarily, a policy holder would be given an opportunity to explain why incorrect information  was 
provided. But, given  the circumstances, its not possible for that to happen on this occasion. Mrs S 
said she did not meet her husband until after he experienced the problems with his health. She told 
me that if she had known  that a question  wasnt answered correctly  then she wouldve done  
something about it, as she now finds herself in a difficult  financial position  because the policy  has 
been voided. 
The medical events  that Mr S shouldve disclosed spanned a number of years and involved a stay 
in hospital, repeated medical appointments and surgery,  albeit minor,  to insert a stent.  And the 
nature of Mr Ss employment meant that he was unable to work for a period of time until he was 
assessed as fit enough  to do so. Im satisfied that the events were significant enough that it seems 
unlikely Mr S wouldve  forgotten about  them at the time he completed the policy  application.  
Given the significance  of the medical  events and that Mr S had the opportunity and indeed appears  
to have checked the application paperwork,  I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr 
S shouldve  known that the answer  he gave to the question  about whether he had any heart 
conditions was incorrect. And that this would have been relevant to Legal and General. So I think  it 
was fair for Legal and General to treat the misrepresentation  as deliberate / reckless. Under 
CIDRA Legal and General is entitled  to cancel the policy from the start date and keep the 
premiums paid. But I can see it has returned  the premiums paid and overall I think  this is fair in the 
circumstances.
Im aware of the difficult  financial position  Mrs S finds  herself  in at the moment. While I have a 
great deal of sympathy for her situation,  it wouldnt be fair to ask Legal and General to pay out on a 
claim when  I am satisfied that the misrepresentation falls into the deliberate or reckless category. 
I know that Mrs S had hoped that Legal  and General  might  refund the premiums  from 2007, which 
is the date she and her husband first took out a policy  with Legal and General. And after reading 
the provisional decision Mrs S asked  for evidence that she and her late husband were made aware 
that the 2012 policy replaced the 2007  policy. 
The demands and needs letter sent to Mrs S and her late husband in May 2012  contains a client 
declaration section and this says that their existing cover should  not be cancelled until the new 
cover is in place. And Im satisfied that this is enough to show  that the 2007 policy ceased when 
the 2012 policy started. So the business cant be expected to refund premiums for a policy that 
ended in 2012. 
Ref: DRN76943634my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  
my decision  before 15 February 2019.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7694363