K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely  Loans irresponsibly gave 
him a loan that was unaffordable.
background
Mr H says he took out the loan for £1,000 with Likely Loans  in 2016 and that it was 
unaffordable. He says at the time he had several  other loans and was in financial difficulties 
which resulted in him entering a debt management  plan in 2016. Mr H says Likely  Loans  
was irresponsible  in lending to him and it should  have been obvious  to it that he was in 
difficulties. He would like a refund  of the money.
Likely Loans says Mr H applied for the loan and it carried out a credit assessment of the 
application. It says Mr H told it he was working and it didnt think  Mr H had any payday loans 
at that time. Likely Loans says that when Mr H told it about his financial difficulties in June 
2016 it tried to help him by agreeing a plan which meant a default wasnt registered on his 
credit file.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  think Likely  Loans  had made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The investigator thought the loan repayment of £61 a month was 
affordable and didnt think Mr Hs credit file had any adverse information on it when the loan 
was taken out. The investigator also thought that Mr H had 14 days from when the loan was 
approved to cancel  it if he wished but hadnt  done  so.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says its too easy to apply  for loan online  in this way. He 
accepts the monthly  repayments were affordable but says he had other repayments at that 
time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened.
Ive looked at Mr Hs application for the loan and Im satisfied he told Likely  Loans  that he 
was working and what his outgoings  were. Im also satisfied that Likely  Loans  carried out its 
own assessment of Mr Hs application.  And took into account  his credit file and credit score 
which I can see was at that time was relatively  high.  So I dont think Likely Loans made a 
mistake or was irresponsible by approving  Mr Hs application. I can also see that Mr H 
accepts the repayments of £61 were affordable.
Ive also looked  at Mr Hs credit file at the time of the application and Im satisfied that there 
wasnt any adverse information  recorded  on it which would lead me to conclude the lending  
was unaffordable.  I appreciate that later on in 2016  Mr Hs financial position was different 
and that he entered a debt management  plan. But I dont think Likely Loans could have 
known what would happen some months later. 
I appreciate that Mr H says this type of loan is too easy to get. But we are not the regulator 
of Likely  Loans  or any other type of lender and so I cant  fairly  comment on what  Mr H says.
Ref: DRN72067912Businesses should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. Im 
satisfied that Likely  Loans has acted in such a way here. I can see that it fairly agreed a 
lower repayment amount  with Mr H and agreed not to add interest  or charges and that a 
default wasnt registered on his credit file.
Overall Im satisfied that Likely Loans  didnt irresponsibly lend money to Mr H and I find that 
at the time the loan was taken out it was affordable. For those reasons I cant  fairly  order  
Likely Loans to refund any of the loan or interest  to Mr H.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7206791