K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank Plc, (trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester, (C&G))  
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L bought  the monthly-premium MPPI  in 2005 in a meeting at the same  time as 
taking out a mortgage. The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Ls joint names. It was initially set 
up as two sub-accounts. The MPPI only covered Mr L. It covered him for accident sickness 
and involuntary  unemployment. The premiums were  £25 a month.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs L 
disagreed the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
Mr and Mrs L say that C&Gs  advisor  didnt mentioned MPPI. They also say that they 
would never have agreed to this extra expense if given the opportunity to make [their] 
own decision. But I think that they knew that the policy was optional  and that they chose 
to take it. I say this because Ive seen:
othe insurance fact find report recording C&Gs representatives discussion with 
Mr and Mrs L. This shows that they chose not to receive a home  insurance  
recommendation. But that Mr L said that it was important to him that the mortgage 
payments could be met in the case of accident, sickness  or unemployment.  There is 
a further record  in the report  showing  that the insurance cover should  be for only part 
of the mortgage.  And that the representative  recommended covering the payments 
for only one of the sub-accounts;
oMr and Mrs Ls signed mortgage agreement. This says that Mr and Mrs L dont have 
to take out any insurance  through C&G. But that they do have to have buildings  
insurance. It also says that they arent  obliged  to take out MPPI;
othe proposal form for MPPI signed  by Mr and Mrs L. This is quite separate from the 
mortgage application. Attached to this is a direct debit for the MPPI premiums signed  
by Mr L;
Because of the time that has passed I can understand  why Mr and Mrs L no longer 
remember the detail  of the sale;
Ref: DRN77830422C&G  recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs L. This means  that it had to take 
reasonable care to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. Knowing what I do about 
their circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy, I find that it 
was suitable. This is because:
oMr L may not have  been eligible for the unemployment part of the cover  for a short 
period from the date the policy commenced. But he would  have been eligible by the 
time he first could have  claimed under the policy terms. And Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest that he wasnt otherwise eligible for the policy;
oMr L wasnt caught by any of the policys  main  limitations and restrictions   such as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr L was entitled  to some sick pay from his employment. But he and Mrs L had no 
savings or other insurance to help make  their mortgage payments had Mr L been off 
work. Following a successful claim the policy would  have paid out over £450  a month 
in addition to any sick pay. These payments would have been made for up to 12 
months. So I think that the MPPI  could have  been  of use to Mr and Mrs L;
oThe policy was competitively priced  and had a reasonable  benefit  by reference to 
other similar policies available in the market at the time;
oAlthough Mr and Mrs L have told us that they were financially stretched at the time of 
the sale Ive seen nothing to suggest  that they couldnt afford the premiums;
oMrs L was only working  part time.  And Mr Ls monthly take-home pay was 
significantly greater than hers. So I dont find that the fact that the insurance only 
covered Mr L made it unsuitable for them.
Both the mortgage  agreement and MPPI proposal forms show the wrong  amount for the 
monthly premiums. The former  shows the cost of covering the payments on the wrong 
sub-account. And the latter shows the cost of covering the whole mortgage,  (although  it 
appears to have a post-it attached saying that only the correct sub-account is to be 
covered). But Im satisfied that these  made  it clear that Mr and Mrs L would have to pay 
something extra for the policy  on top of the monthly mortgage payments. And in fact the 
figures shown were substantially higher than the premiums they actually had to pay. But 
Mr and Mrs L still signed the documents.
 Its possible that C&G didnt tell Mr and Mrs L everything else about  the MPPI  that it 
ought to have. But Ive found  that they chose to take it out and that is was suitable for 
them. So I dont think that clearer  information would have changed their minds and 
stopped them buying it. I say this bearing  in mind  the serious consequences that could  
have arisen had Mr and Mrs L not been able to make  their mortgage payments.
As Ive said above, Ive considered  everything  that Mr and Mrs L have told us, 
including that their family  could  have helped them if Mr L hadnt  been working. On 
our website  we explain  why we generally  disregard the possibility of help from others  
when deciding this sort of complaint.  Ive seen nothing to make  me take a different 
view here.  So this comment  doesnt  affect  my decision. 
Ref: DRN77830423my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7783042