K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a catalogue  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
2006. Ms R says Grattan  Plc, trading as Look Again (Grattan) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes the PPI 
policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all 
of this information here.
Ms R didnt provide  her circumstances for the time the policy  was sold, so our adjudicator 
requested more information. They  did not receive any new information and were told by 
Ms Rs representative to proceed with the information they had. Our adjudicator did not 
uphold the complaint. 
Ms Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
Another adjudicator  has since asked for further  information about Ms Rs circumstances 
around the time the policy was sold, but again,  did not receive  a response.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Rs. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Ms Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Grattan made  it clear that Ms R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Grattan has provided a script it says its representatives 
were advised to follow during telephone  sales   I think  its likely this was broadly 
followed. Following  some information about the policy, the wording prompted the 
representative to ask, Shall I add this today? which I think  makes  it clear that the policy 
was optional, and that Ms R likely  agreed  to take it.
Ref: DRN76276162Grattan recommended the PPI to Ms R so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
As Ms Rs hasnt provided her circumstances from the time, I havent seen anything  to 
suggest the policy was fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for her. So, I think Ms R was 
more likely than not eligible  for the cover and had a need for it. 
I havent seen  anything about Ms Rs employment or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could have affected her ability to claim.
Its possible the information Grattan gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. Its more likely than not the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for 
Ms R as I concluded  above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was 
buying from the information  she was given. It also looks  like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  Because of this I 
dont think Ms R would have declined the cover had Grattan  done  anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, despite its limitations, I havent  seen anything to make  me think  the policy 
was fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think  she would have still thought 
she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms R would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely 
she thought she was getting.  And in those  circumstances, I think that she would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Ms Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Grattan should have disclosed the poor value  and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Ms Rs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of Ms Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means  Grattan doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN76276163My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Ms Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7627616