K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that interest has not been  paid to her account with Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) and shes also been  asked to pay a monthly fee for nothing. She thinks  
Santander shouldve  warned her when she was no longer eligible for interest.
background
Mrs K took out a second account with Santander  in October 2013.  The account benefited 
from the addition  of 3% interest and cashback  was added if certain bills were  paid using  the 
account. But in order to qualify for interest and cashback, certain conditions needed to be 
met and Mrs K needed  to pay a £5 fee each month for the account. One of these conditions 
was that two direct debits  needed to be set up from the account.
In early 2017 Mrs K cancelled a credit card and this reduced the amount  of direct debits that 
were being  paid and meant that interest  and cashback were no longer added.  
Mrs K only recently found out that she was receiving no interest or cashback. She was 
disappointed that shed been paying  a £5 fee every month for no benefit and she thought 
Santander shouldve  told her. So she complained to them.
Santander explained that interest wasnt being applied to her account because  the requisite 
number of direct debits were no longer being  paid from it. They  paid Mrs K £75 as a goodwill 
gesture but they didnt think theyd done anything wrong as theyd  simply applied  the terms 
and conditions correctly.
But Mrs K was still dissatisfied and she referred her complaint to this service.  Our 
adjudicator reviewed the eligibility criteria but he agreed with Santander; that theyd been  
applied correctly. He noted that the eligibility  criteria was identified  on the Interest Rate and 
Fees document Mrs K had been sent and that they were also noted on the statements she 
received, when she didnt attract interest.  So he didnt  think  Santander were wrong not to 
pay interest and he thought the criteria they used to decide this, had been clearly explained.
But Mrs K didnt agree. She accepted that Santander hadnt broken any terms and 
conditions but she wanted a final decision from an ombudsman because she said shed 
been a loyal customer  and she was owed a duty of care to be told by Santander when they 
were taking a fee and not paying interest. She also wanted the ombudsman  to comment  on 
whether he thought Santander had their customers interest in the forefront  of their 
operations. She still didnt  feel it was right for Santander not to inform  their customers  of 
such issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN77980372Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can understand that it must have been  very frustrating  for Mrs K when  she realised that she 
wasnt accruing interest on her account:  especially as there was regularly such a large  sum 
in the account.  She thinks Santander  should  have warned her about it but I think  they did tell 
her. The regular statements Mrs K received explained how much  interest  she was receiving 
and detailed the criteria  that needed  to be met in order  for interest to be attracted.
The banks Interest  Rate  and Fees document also set out those criteria and one of them  was 
that a £5 fee would need to be paid on the account.
I dont think Santander  needed to do any more.  They had a duty of care to make  the 
information clear enough  for Mrs K to realise  what was happening  when she reviewed her 
account performance. I think they did that and I therefore dont think  they need  to take any 
further action.
Mrs K has asked  whether  I believe theyve  had their customers interests in mind. Whilst this 
service is able to help resolve disputes  between financial businesses and their customers  its 
not for us to comment  on the banks operational practices. Thats for their regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) to consider.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7798037