K821x#15complaint
Mrs G is unhappy  with her home contents insurer St Andrews Insurance  Plc (St Andrews). It 
replaced her carpet following a claim for accidental damage and there  is a problem with the 
replacement carpet which  she also feels is inferior.
background
St Andrews replaced the carpet in a bedroom  and in the hall, stairs and landing  at Mrs Gs 
home. Shortly after the carpet  was replaced  Mrs G noticed the wool fibres  were gathering 
into lumps, giving the carpet an overall  bobbly  appearance.
St Andrews  sent out its contractor, who had fitted the replacement. It said the replacement  
had been  like-for-like and the problem Mrs G was seeing was a natural occurrence for this 
type of carpet. Mrs G remained unhappy.
St Andrews asked a different contractor to inspect the carpet and it sent an assessor  to
Mrs Gs home. One of the bedrooms still had the carpet that had been replaced elsewhere. 
He determined that the quality  of the carpets  was the same. He also noted that the new 
carpet was bobbling which he accepted was something that can occur with this type of 
carpet. He said the current finish could be improved  by specialist removal  of the bobbles  
and then maintained by more frequent hoovering. He also noticed that gripper rods were 
poking through on the stairs and felt this was likely because shorter ones should  have  been  
installed. He said this could be resolved by flattening the prongs.
As St Andrews wouldnt replace the carpet  Mrs G complained to this service. Our investigator 
felt St Andrews should arrange for an independent assessment to be undertaken of the 
carpet to determine  if it needed replacing.
Mrs G was satisfied  by this suggestion. St Andrews wasnt. It said it had already assessed  
the carpet twice. The result of that was that the carpet had been replaced  on a like-for-like 
basis and that there was no defect  with the replacement carpet.  The complaint was passed  
to me for a decision  to be made. 
I issued some provisional findings  as I didnt feel it was fair to require St Andrews to carry out 
a further assessment. I felt it should repair the carpet as recommended  by its expert. Neither  
party was happy  with my findings.  Ive considered their responses but they havent changed 
my view on how this complaint should  be resolved.  My provisional findings,  the parties 
responses and my replies are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I said provisionally:
The policy  provided  by St Andrews requires it, when carrying out replacements,  to do so on 
a like-for-like basis. Mrs G reported concerns that it hadnt done that. In the first instance  then 
St Andrews rightly asked its contractor to inspect the work it had done. It then fell to Mrs G to 
provide evidence to the contrary.
Ref: DRN76195262Mrs G didnt provide any further  evidence. But, because  she was unhappy, St Andrews 
agreed to have the carpets  (pre-existing and replacement) examined by a third-party.  I think 
it was reasonable  for St Andrews to take this action.  It assisted its unhappy policyholder  but it 
was also important for it to show its replacement  had been carried  out to a good standard 
and on a like-for-like  basis.  Its contractors assessment  was an important first step in that 
respect but is unlikely  to have ever been seen as wholly persuasive given that contractors 
biased position. So, in terms  of assessment, I think St Andrews has done all I can reasonably 
require it to in the circumstances.
The third-party assessment has determined that the carpet was of at least  as good a quality 
as the old one, being 100% wool loop. And it was found to have no manufacturing defects. A 
problem with the gripper rods was noted but, whilst  indicative of a not wholly  satisfactory 
fitting job, this wouldnt  have caused or affected the issue Mrs G mainly has concerns about. 
And St Andrews has agreed  to resolve the issue with the gripper  rods. So, on the face of it, 
the problem Mrs G reported  hasnt  resulted  from any failure of St Andrews.
Mrs G said that the fact that the spikes on the gripper rods were  poking through  showed  the 
replacement carpet was thinner and, therefore,  not like the previous one. Whilst I understand 
why Mrs G feels this way, Im not persuaded that is most likely the case.  The expert didnt  
note a difference in thickness, even though he knew that was a concern for Mrs G. He did 
say short  pin gripper  rods should have been used with the replacement  but doesnt  conclude 
this is due to the carpet being  thinner. And I have no expert opinion  stating  that the carpets 
are different.  Should  Mrs G decide  to get her own report then Id expect St Andrews to 
consider it. On the basis of what St Andrews has seen and has been provided  to this service,  
Im satisfied St Andrews replaced the carpet on a like-for-like basis.
My provisional findings continued:
However, I think St Andrews assessments have missed a key point. Whilst the carpet has 
been found to be like the one in place  before,  it seems Mrs Gs previous carpet didnt have 
the same  issue she has now. As the issue  seems  to be one that can affect any carpet  of this 
type it may well be that Mrs G was just lucky with the carpet  she had before. But
St Andrews, as it was required to do, replaced on a like-for-like basis.  So that meant there 
was always a risk that any replacement carpet might not perform in the same way Mrs G had 
experienced before. I think then that Mrs G should probably have been warned about  that
risk prior to the replacement  occurring.  She could then have taken  action to reduce  the risk of 
the bobbling occurring in the first place and by so doing, maintained the carpets  finish.
So I think St Andrews now needs to carry out a repair to this carpet as set out in its 
third-party report. Mrs G can then maintain  the finish of the carpet from there. This puts her 
back into the positon she always should  have  been  in given the liabilities set out in the policy  
and what I think St Andrews should  have done  to treat her fairly and reasonably.
St Andrews  said its concerned about  repairing the carpet in the way directed  as it thinks  
Mrs G may return to it later if it bobbles again.  It has provided a care leaflet which  Ill have 
our investigator pass on to Mrs G. Whilst I understand St Andrews concern that doesnt  
mean it shouldnt have to carry  out this work. It failed  Mrs G when the carpet  was installed 
and completing  this work will put her back into the position she would always have  been  in 
but for that failure.   
I know Mrs G thinks  she vacuums enough  and it isnt fair to expect her to do more in order  to 
keep the quality of the carpet.  I understand her concern. But this carpet  is like the one she 
Ref: DRN76195263had before so in providing the replacement St Andrews has done what  its policy required it to 
do. What St Andrews  didnt do though was let Mrs G know that she might  expect this 
phenomenon to occur  with the replacement  carpet.  So whilst I cant  reasonably  make  it 
replace the carpet, I can require it to carry out a repair (specialist removal  of the bobbles) so 
the carpet is returned  as closely as possible to the state it was when it was installed.  
St Andrews  will also have  to flatten the gripper rods as previously offered. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require St Andrews Insurance  Plc to repair  Mrs Gs carpet  as 
recommended in its third-party  report,  and to flatten the gripper rods.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7619526