K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt
with a claim made under Mrs Rs car insurance  policy.
background
Mrs R reported an incident  involving another car to her insurer,  Admiral. She said she was
emerging from a car park space. A 4x4 vehicle was parked next to her car which made
visibility difficult. She looked to her left - as she said the car park operated a one way
system. Mrs R said as she edged out slowly, a car from her right collided into her car. Mrs R
said the other car was driving the wrong  way and too fast. Mrs R didnt make a claim as she
said there was minimal  damage to her car.
The third party made a claim. Admiral settled the claim as a fault claim against Mrs R. Mrs R
found out about the third party claim because  the third partys  insurer  wrote to Mrs R directly
to request payment for some of the third party claim costs.
Mrs R complained to Admiral. She didnt agree with its decision to hold her at fault for the
incident. Admiral didnt ask her to send photos  she said shed taken of both cars. Admiral
had paid the majority  of the third party claim without telling her. Mrs R said her premium  at
renewal was much higher  as a result  of the claim.
Admiral said its liability  decision was correct.  But it accepted it failed to notify  Mrs R of the
third party claim. It said the claim would  have an impact on Mrs Rs premium at renewal.
Admiral accepted that it didnt ask Mrs R to send photos she had. And it didnt note Mrs Rs
comments as to how light she viewed  the damage  to the other  drivers  car. But Admiral
explained it would hold Mrs R at fault based  on her account  and Mrs R had accepted this.
It said there would  have been  a payment made  on the claim in any event  as Mrs Rs car
made contact with the other car.
For its failings in investigating the claim, Admiral paid Mrs R £50 compensation.
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability. But we can look at whether an
insurer has reached its decision  reasonably and properly investigated  the claim.
The investigator didnt  think Admiral had done  this. He asked Admiral  to provide its rationale
for deciding  to accept  fault for the claim rather than look to settle  it on a 50%50%  shared
liability basis. He asked  Admiral to provide a recording of the notification call Mrs R made,
but Admiral didnt provide it. So, he thought on balance  Mrs R wouldnt have accepted 
liability
when she reported  the incident.
He explained  that even  if the claim had been  settled on a shared liability basis,  the impact
would have been the same on Mrs Rs No Claims Bonus (NCB).
But he thought  Admiral had prejudiced Mrs Rs position by failing to carry out a proper
investigation. So, he thought Admiral should pay a further £200 compensation in recognition
of this  and in recognition of the higher premium Mrs R would have to pay as a result of the
claim. And he thought Admiral should  change how it recorded the claim to a 50%50%  
shared liability  basis.
Ref: DRN74509512Mrs R accepted the investigators recommendations. Admiral  didnt  agree.  It provided  a
recording of the notification call and its reasons for deciding liability. It maintained  its stance
that the onus was on Mrs R emerging from a parked position  to check it was clear and safe
to do so. It said how it recorded the claim wont change as the outcome is the same for a
partial or full fault claim. And the impact on the premium  and Mrs Rs NCB would be the
same too.
Admiral said it explained  its decision: both in the notification call and in a letter to Mrs R the
following day. So it didnt  agree to pay Mrs R any further compensation as she was aware of
how Admiral intended  to deal with a third party claim.
Our investigator didnt  think it was right for Admiral to place less weight on the fact that the
other driver was travelling in the wrong direction. Admiral disagreed and said its not for us to
decide liability. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 May 2020. I thought  Admirals  decision as to how it 
settled the claim was reasonable and in line with the policy.  But I thought it should have told 
Mrs R when it received a claim from the third party. Because it didnt, Mrs R was shocked at 
receiving notice from the third party insurers of its intention  to issue court  proceedings 
against her. So I thought Admiral should  pay Mrs R £100 compensation for this  in addition  
to the £50 it already paid her. 
Admiral said it believed  the £50 compensation it paid is enough to put things right as it made 
Mrs R aware that it would deal with a third party claim  if it received  one. 
Mrs R accepted my provisional  decision.  So the case  has been passed back  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of Mrs Rs notification  call with Admiral. Mrs R confirmed that
the damage was to the other drivers  passenger door. She said there was a dent but she
didnt think there was any paintwork damage   just a graze that left a residue. She said she
had a picture. Admiral  explained that even  though  the other driver was driving the wrong
way, it would hold Mrs R liable for any third party  claim.  The agent said the onus  was on
Mrs R to check as she was emerging from a parked position.  Mrs R said Right ok yeah.
Mrs R later said she believed there was no damage and it could probably be wiped off with a
damp cloth. The agent explained that Mrs R would be held liable for the incident and the
claim would have an impact on her NCB. He said an email would be sent to Mrs R
confirming how Admiral  will deal with the claim.  And he said they may offer services to the
third party to keep  the claim costs  down. The agent asked Mrs R if she had any questions.
Mrs R said no, that she would probably  wait until the third party got in touch.
I cant agree  that Mrs R disputed Admirals  stance during this call.
Admiral wrote to Mrs R via email later that day. Mrs R in her letter to us confirmed she
received confirmation  of her reporting  the incident  to Admiral. In the letter Admiral told Mrs R
it would  accept responsibility for the incident. It said it would deal with any third party  claim
and would let Mrs R know when  it settled their claim. It said Mrs Rs NCB would be reduced.
Ref: DRN74509513It said Mrs R could call if she had any questions.
I think Mrs R was made aware of what Admiral  would do if it received a third party claim and
when it would update her. But I think Admiral should  have let Mrs R know  when it received a
claim from the third party. At this point there was an open claim against her policy.  And I 
think Mrs R may have  disputed the claim then and provided a photo of the other car at this 
stage. Admiral upheld  this complaint.
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  liability. This is a matter for the courts.  But we
can look at whether an insurer has reached  its decision reasonably and in line with the
policy.
Admirals policy has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance
policies. It says:
We are entitled to:
 conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
 take legal action over any claim  in your name or the name of any person insured on
the policy for our own benefit
 admit negligence for any accident  or claim on your behalf
 investigate your claim and exchange information with other parties involved with the
accident or claim. However, we will treat your information carefully  and only reveal it
in cases where we believe it is necessary.
Admiral said the main issue is that Mrs R was emerging from a parked position and so the
onus was on her to check it was clear  before  doing so. Although Mrs R said the other driver
was speeding,  this would be very difficult to prove: there was no CCTV or independent
witnesses and no damage to Mrs Rs car. Admiral would expect to see some evidence of
damage if the other car was travelling at excessive speed. Admiral said there was potentially
an argument that the other driver was driving in the wrong direction, but this in their opinion
goes back to the onus being  on Mrs R to check it was clear before driving out of the car park
space. It said the fact that a parked car was blocking  the view doesnt bear anything  on
either defence  as the situation applies to both parties.
Admiral concluded  that its decision to hold Mrs R 100% liable for the incident was correct.  At
best it said it could  have potentially settled it 90%10% but this would have made  little
difference to the costs and highly  likely  to have been  rejected by the other  drivers insurer.
And Admiral said it wouldnt be economical  for it to let a case  run to litigation to recover  10%
of the claim costs.
I think Admiral  has shown  that it properly considered liability in this case. And we cannot
make a decision about liability. So I cant say that Admirals approach here isnt right.  I think
it reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line the policy. An insurer can decide its
better to settle a claim on the best terms possible rather than risk significant  court  costs   if it
considered the likelihood of success was low.
Admiral has provided a copy of the third party engineer report  which shows  a claim for
damage to the front passenger door. Mrs R said this was the area of damage in her call.
Admiral accepts that it should have requested the photo Mrs R had taken at the time of the
third partys  car. Its possible that Admiral might have challenged some of the damage being
claimed for.
Ref: DRN74509514However, I cant ask Admiral to change  the recording of the claim. Insurers  record  claims on
a third party central database.  Claims are recorded  as either  fault  or non fault. This doesnt
mean that the customer is necessarily at fault for the claim. But its how the industry
categorises claims where the costs were either recoverable  or non recoverable from a 
third party. So even  if Mrs Rs claim had been settled on a shared liability basis,  as Admiral  
was responsible for at least part of the third party claim  costs, the claim would still have  been
recorded as a fault claim. And so the impact on Mrs Rs premium  at renewal and the
reduction in her NCB would have been the same.
For this reason, I dont  think Admiral  should  compensate Mrs R for how it recorded  the claim
as it doesnt change the outcome.
Admiral said it settled  the third party claim for car damage in November 2018. But because
the third party  insurer  hadnt provided  proof  of payment for car hire charges,  it hadnt paid
these. When Mrs R forwarded  the payment request to Admiral, it dealt with it promptly.  I
cant hold Admiral responsible for the third party insurers  decision to write directly  to Mrs R
when Admiral was dealing with the claim.
But I think Admiral should have made  Mrs R aware  when it received  a claim from the third
party. So I can understand Mrs Rs shock at receiving a request for payment from the third
party insurer. This was the first time Mrs R was made aware there  was a claim against her
policy. So I think Admiral should pay a further £100 for the distress caused  when  the third
party insurer  contacted  Mrs R  as I think Admiral should have told Mrs R when it received
the third party  claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mrs R £100 compensation - in addition to the £50 its already paid - for the 
distress caused by finding out from the third party insurer about a claim against her policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7450951