K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the service he received from Nationwide Building  Society  when 
he went into branch to pay in money  to his current account. Hes also complained  about  
Nationwide chasing  him to repay his personal  loan account.
background
Mr P says he went into a Nationwide branch in July 2018. He went  to pay money into his 
current account after getting a text from Nationwide  saying  his account didnt have enough in 
it for an upcoming payment. Mr P says that he was insulted by the banks staff. 
After reviewing Mr Ps complaint, Nationwide confirmed they sent Mr P a text on 
15 July 2018 but had no record of Mr P visiting a local branch around  July. Nationwide also 
said Mr P hadnt paid any money  into his account since June. They said Mr P called them on 
16 July 2018,  when Mr P told them he was in hospital and wanted  Nationwide to stop 
sending him text alerts. Nationwide told Mr P they wouldnt contact him again for a month.
Nationwide says it spoke  to Mr P again on 24 July 2018 and he said he was still in hospital. 
So Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint that one of their staff members was rude to 
him in a local branch. Recognising they didnt fulfil their promise  to stop contacting Mr P for a 
month, Nationwide credited Mr Ps current account with £50. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr P asked our service  to look into his complaint. He also said Nationwide  only paid him 
£40.
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to uphold Mr Ps complaint that one of 
Nationwides staff was rude to him. There was no record of Mr P paying  money  into his 
account in July. The only record Nationwide had of Mr P going into a branch was in 
June 2018, but there  was no record of what happened.  Turning to Mr Ps loan, our 
investigator thought  Nationwides  offer of £50 for not giving Mr P a months breathing  space 
was fair. 
Mr P disagreed and said he didnt  think he should  have to pay his loan until he got a written 
apology. Our investigator remained of the view that she hadnt  seen enough evidence  to 
show Nationwide had done anything wrong. So this has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not upheld  Mr Ps 
complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. I realise  my decision is likely to 
disappoint Mr P, but Ill explain  my reasons.
I know Mr P feels Nationwides  member  of staff was rude to him. But theres no record of 
Mr P visiting  a branch  when he said he did. Ive not seen enough evidence to show he went  
into a branch or what happened. So I dont think I should uphold  Mr Ps complaint on this 
basis.
Nationwide accepted they shouldnt  have written to Mr P for a month after they spoke in 
July 2018. Ive reviewed  Mr Ps current account  history. The records  show  a £50 credit to his 
account on 14 September 2018. Mr P then withdrew  £40, but Ive not seen anything to show 
Ref: DRN72873692Nationwide didnt pay him the £50 as promised. So Ive not asked  Nationwide to pay Mr P 
anything further  here.
I note Nationwide  has spoken to Mr P about  repaying his loan. Nationwide  has an ongoing 
duty to treat Mr P positively and sympathetically  if he is experiencing financial difficulties. If 
Mr P is still having difficulties repaying his loan, he may want  to seek  free, independent 
advice about his options for repaying it. Our investigator will be happy to provide Mr P with 
details of some organisations that might  be able to help him if he would like them and hes 
free to make a new complaint  about  the loan in future should he need to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7287369