K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a credit 
agreement. Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep things 
simple. 
Mrs J says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI policy.
background
Mrs J took out finance to buy some goods in a shop in 1998. At the same time, she was sold 
a PPI policy. The policy would have protected Mrs Js monthly repayments under the credit 
agreement for up to 12 months  if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job. It also included 
life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs J disagreed with 
the adjudicators  view,  so the complaints  been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Js application for the finance. It includes a section about  PPI, 
with a box to mark if the applicant  wishes to take the cover. Theres  a cross in the box to 
indicate that Mrs J wished to take the cover. Its true that the cross appears to be printed. 
But so are the other details on the form. On balance, I think  its likely that the option was 
selected following  a discussion  with Mrs J before  the form was printed. 
Ive also borne in mind that Mrs J was entering  into an important financial commitment. 
So Id have expected her to check the form before  signing  it. I think  it was clear  from the 
way the PPI was referred to on the form that it was optional.  And Id have expected  Mrs J 
to query  the fact that the option was selected  if she didnt, in fact, want  the cover.  So 
overall, I think its likely that FICL  made it clear to Mrs J that the PPI was optional.  And 
I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice  although I can understand 
how she may no longer remember this, so many years later.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J. So it didnt have to check  that it was right for 
her. But it did have a responsibility to give Mrs J clear enough information about the PPI 
to enable her to decide for herself  whether she wanted the cover, knowing what  
alternative means shed have  had of making  her monthly repayments if shed been off 
sick, or if shed lost her job.
Ref: DRN78252612Mrs Js told us shed have been  entitled to at least six months full pay from her employer 
if shed been off sick. She also says she had some savings. But the policy would  have 
helped with the monthly repayments  under the credit agreement for up to 12 months  per 
successful claim.  So it would potentially have covered Mrs J for longer than shed have  
been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more,  it would  have  paid out in addition  to any 
payments she received  from her employer, so she could have used  those to meet  other 
day-to-day living expenses. And she wouldnt have  had to use her savings to make her 
monthly repayments. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs J chose to take out the PPI. So it 
looks as if she was interested in this type of cover, even  if shes understandably  
forgotten that now. And based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, 
Mrs J wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover  such as unusual  
working arrangements, or existing medical conditions.  
Im satisfied  that it would have  been  clear from the application  form that there would be 
monthly premiums to pay for the cover. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  
was unaffordable for Mrs J. Whats more,  as she was paying  for it monthly, she could 
have cancelled it without any further  cost if her situation changed.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think that better  information  about the PPI would 
have put Mrs J off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result  of anything  that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
Ive taken all Mrs Js comments into account,  including what  shes  said about  not having  
been told she might have been able to find a similar, cheaper policy elsewhere. But FICL  
wasnt obliged to tell Mrs J about  products that might have been available from other 
providers. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7825261