K820x#14 
complaint
Mr W complained  about his home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because  it declined 
a claim he made for storm damage. 
A representative brought a complaint on Mr Ws behalf. To keep things simple, I will refer 
both Mr W and his representative as Mr W, unless stated otherwise. 
background
In March 2019, Mr W said there was a storm within the vicinity  of his home that caused 
damage to his roof. So the following day he contacted a local contractor to complete a 
temporary repair to prevent any further damage. 
Mr W contacted  UKI to make  a claim.  He said he was told to get a full quote  for a permanent  
repair. Mr W said he had already obtained  a quote from the contractor that carried out the 
temporary repair to his roof. 
A week later UKI sent its own contractor to Mr Ws home to assess the damage.  During  this 
visit, Mr W said that UKIs contractor suggested  the damage wouldnt be covered because it 
was a flat roof. UKI later said it wouldnt accept the claim because  it considered  damage  was 
caused by wear and tear, and not a one-off storm event. Mr W disagreed  with this. He asked 
his own contractor to write  a report.  
Mr Ws contractor  said in their opinion the roof had been damaged by a one-off storm event.  
But UKI maintained  its position to reject the claim so Mr W brought his complaint  to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ws complaint  should  be upheld.  He checked 
local weather reports  and said the records didnt  show a storm had occurred. He therefore 
agreed that the damage caused was likely due to wear and tear and not a one-off storm 
event. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. He provided further information about the weather 
conditions in the UK around the time he said there was a storm. But this didnt change  our 
investigators opinion.  
As Mr W remained unhappy  the case has been  passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr W, I agree  with our investigators findings for broadly similar reasons. I 
will explain  why. 
Its not disputed  that Mr Ws policy covers damage to a roof if caused  by a storm. But under 
the policys general exclusions, theres  no cover if the loss or damage arises due to wear  
and tear. 
Ref: DRN75334612Whats in dispute here, and the crux of the complaint, is whether a storm was present and if 
UKIs conclusion that the storm wasnt the main  cause  of the damage is fair and reasonable. 
Our investigator explained that when we look at storm damage cases  we ask three  
questions: 
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage  is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause  of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we would say a claim should succeed. 
But, if the answer to any question  is no, then we usually wouldnt expect such a claim to 
succeed. 
The policy doesnt  define a storm. We consider that a storm is characterised by violent 
winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snowfall.  Our investigator carried out his own 
research into weather reports around the time Mr W said a storm caused  damage to his 
home. He found  a weather station  four miles away reported that the wind speed peaked  at 
43 MPH with an hourly  rainfall of 4.2 millimetres. 
I have carried out my own research into this and found the same. There was certainly  some  
bad weather recorded within a few miles of Mr Ws home. But the policy doesnt cover 
general poor weather  it has to be a storm. 
Mr W provided his own research  from a national weather services website. Mr W said the 
note taken from the website says that a storm affected all parts of the country with strong 
winds and heavy rain. Whilst  Mr Ws research does  show that stormy conditions were  
reported across the country, it doesnt  provide clear  records of wind speed or rainfall  which is 
something we consider  an important factor when assessing if a storm took place or not. 
Im more persuaded  the weather station four miles from Mr Ws home  gives  more of an 
accurate recording  here. And based on this, I cant agree its fair to conclude storm 
conditions were present  on the day the damage  is said to have happened.  
In my experience in dealing with these types  of cases I wouldnt have expected damage to 
have occurred to Mr Ws roof unless there were underlying  issues present. With the wind 
speed and rainfall records  found,  Im persuaded if the roof had no underlying issues  it 
wouldve withstood the poor weather. 
UKIs contractors report says the roof felt had delaminated from the decking boards  which  
was viewed as a gradual process rather than caused by a storm. I dont think  a storm was 
the main cause of the damage  to the roof because I dont find the weather  severe  enough to 
agree a one-off storm event occurred. Rather bad weather simply highlighted underlying  
issues that couldnt withstand weather that I wouldve expected  it to. 
Mr W provided a copy of his own contractors report which says that the damage  is 
consistent with damage  a storm typically  causes. But I dont find it challenges  the information 
Ive relied on to determine whether  a storm was present, or was the main  cause of the 
damage. 
Ref: DRN75334613my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7533461