K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Nationwide Building  Society sent a new bank card to an old 
address and then didnt  respond to the matter satisfactorily, once theyd brought it to 
Nationwides attention.
Background 
Nationwide sent a new bank card for Mrs K to their current  address,  but the one for Mr K 
was sent to an address theyd lived in approximately five years previously. The current  
resident at that address  informed Mr and Mrs K of the error.
Mr and Mrs K called Nationwide  to tell them about the error. They say they were asked by 
Nationwide what they wanted it to do and seemed  to be blaming Mr and Mrs K for the error.
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs K saying he should have changed his address for that 
account when  their mortgage was agreed  at the new address. It says this is explained in the 
first mortgage letter it sends and Nationwide has no record of Mr K updating  his address for 
his bank account. Nationwide said he can do this online  or in a branch. It concluded by 
saying it hadnt  made  any errors.
Mr and Mrs K say they have other accounts  with Nationwide  one discussed  the previous 
week in branch  and their address shows correctly online. They  say Nationwides systems 
arent robust enough and that this incident  is a breach of data protection legislation.
To resolve  the matter Mr and Mrs K want confirmation that Nationwide  has their correct 
address details and that its systems  are robust  enough to avoid a repeat of this issue.  They  
also want compensation of two days  wages at £500 per day.
Our investigator thought it was more likely than not that Nationwide had made  an error when 
it updated Mrs Ks address, by failing to update Mr Ks address at the same time. She also 
thought Nationwide could have handled  the call better when Mr K made contact  to arrange 
for a card to be sent to the correct address. This was because of the time taken to resolve  
the matter on the phone. She asked Nationwide to pay Mr and Mrs K £50 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Nationwide agreed  to pay Mr and Mrs K £50 to settle the complaint, but Mr and Mrs K dont 
agree  they think £1,000  is more  appropriate.  So, the complaint has been  referred  to me for 
a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that Nationwide  
could have done better, but think they should pay Mr and Mrs K £150, rather  than the £50 
offered. The investigator  has told both parties  of my thoughts in that regard. Nationwide 
responded, explaining  why it doesnt  agree with my proposed increase in compensation. So, 
Ive also taken those  comments into consideration when  reaching my final decision. 
To reach my decision, Ive thought about whether  its likely Mr and Mrs K notified Nationwide 
of both their changes of address for this account before Mr Ks card was sent to the incorrect 
address. Ive also thought about whether Nationwide shouldve  acted differently to resolve 
Ref: DRN79992012the matter. And, because  Nationwide  has now offered an amount to compensate  Mr and Mrs 
K for the trouble and upset caused  and Mr and Mrs K think thats too low  Ive thought  
about the likely impact of Nationwides  actions  on Mr and Mrs K.
When Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage with Nationwide started, it told them  in a letter  they 
needed to inform Nationwide separately of any changes of address that apply to other 
accounts. Its unclear  from the evidence available whether they did that. I know that Mrs Ks 
card went  to the correct  address and they have other accounts with Nationwide which  dont 
appear to have had similar issues. So, I think Nationwide may have overlooked Mr Ks 
change of address  on this particular account.
Mr and Mrs K have  said they disagree  with the amount our investigator has suggested to 
resolve the matter.  I understand their concerns about their data and, in this case, their bank 
card falling into the wrong hands.  I agree that the impact  both financial and emotional  - 
could have been substantial. But they were alerted to the fact by the current resident  at the 
address where  the card was sent and he appears  to have destroyed  the card. So, I think  the 
potential impact was avoided by the actions of the current resident.
This Service doesnt have  the powers  to punish a business. Instead, we generally look to 
direct a business to put right whats gone wrong, where we see its made and error. And to 
pay compensation for losses caused  by its error  both financial and the impact on the 
consumer in terms of trouble or upset. So, to assess the impact on Mr and Mrs K, Ive looked  
at what happened  after they became aware  that Mr Ks card was sent to the wrong address.
Nationwides contact  records show that Mrs K called them  to discuss the issue of the 
incorrectly sent card and to raise  a complaint about it in March  2019. Ive listened  to a 
recording of that call. Mrs K was told she could continue to use her card, but Nationwide  
would need to speak to Mr K to look into what happened. Nationwide said it would call Mr K 
within three days  its records show it did so the next day, but Nationwide cannot  provide a 
recording of that call. Its records for that call say the matter  couldnt be resolved and was 
escalated.
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs K the following day, giving its final response  to their 
complaint. The letter said that to change  Mr Ks address, he could  either do it online  using 
a card and a card reader   or go into a branch with identification. It also said if Mr K hasnt 
received a new card, he could call a specific number, cancel the old one and replace the 
new one. Nationwides  records  indicate  that Mr K contacted it in May and the card was 
cancelled.
Mr K called again in June  because hed not received the replacement  card.  He was told his 
old address was still showing for that account. During this call, Nationwide  updated his 
address and said the card would be sent to him by the end of the week.
I think the impact on Mr and Mrs K was significantly less that it could potentially have been. I 
appreciate that the matter did not get resolved for a number of months and Mr and Mrs K 
have said they dont think Nationwides systems are robust enough to prevent data breeches  
from happening. But Nationwide  has sent us a screenshot showing the correct  address for 
Mr K in respect of this account. So, Im satisfied that issue  has been resolved and I dont 
have the power  to direct Nationwide to change  its systems.
In one of the calls to Nationwide,  Mr K said he doesnt use the account. So, I think not 
having access to it hasnt impacted him. That said, I think Nationwide  had earlier 
Ref: DRN79992013opportunities to stop the old card and update Mr Ks address on its records.  It has said it will 
only update address records online or in a branch,  but it did so on the phone in June and I 
think it should have  done so in March. 
Nationwide says it changed the address on the phone in June as an exception  to its usual 
procedure and it usually  needs to see identification to do so. But, given that it knew  the bank 
card had been sent to the wrong address, it also knew that the address needed  changing to 
that of Mrs K  theyve  said other  accounts  they hold show Mr K as living  there. And, for as 
long as it remained unchanged, it continued  to be a security risk. So, I think Nationwide 
should have changed the address at the earliest  opportunity in this case, irrespective of its 
usual procedure.  
Overall, I appreciate that events have caused  some concern to Mr and Mrs K, but theres 
been no financial impact   or worry that there may be one  due to the actions of the current  
resident at their old address. I do think Nationwide should have stopped the previous card 
and updated Mr Ks address in March and that would have prevented  him having  to make 
the calls in May and June.  So, I think  Nationwide  should pay Mr and Mrs K £150 for the 
trouble an upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about Nationwide  Building 
Society and it should pay them £150 in respect  of the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7999201