K821x#15complaint
Ms V has complained about  AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds decision to exclude her claim 
under her private medical insurance policy on the grounds that it was for preventative 
treatment.
background
Ms V was referred to a consultant ophthalmologist,  Dr W, after experiencing problems  with 
her eyes.  Dr W recommended she undergo a laser iridotomy  on both eyes. Ms V asked  AXA 
to provide cover. However,  after getting  further  information,  AXA declined the claim as it 
understood that the treatment was to prevent primary angle closure. It explained that the 
policy didnt provide cover for preventative treatment.
Ms V challenged AXAs decision and provided  a further letter  from Dr W in support of her 
claim. AXA agreed to get a second  opinion from another  consultant  ophthalmologist, Dr F. 
After receiving Dr Fs report, AXA continued to decline the claim. Ms V was unhappy  at 
AXAs decision and referred her complaint to us.
While the complaint was under investigation, Ms V went  ahead and had the treatment 
privately which she paid for herself.
After receiving a further report from Dr F, our adjudicator  recommended that the complaint  
should be upheld.  He noted that Dr F had confirmed Ms V was suffering from narrow  angle 
disease and that without  the iridotomies she would eventually almost  certainly  suffer from 
glaucoma. He therefore thought AXA should  pay for Ms Vs treatment.
AXA didnt accept  the adjudicators opinion. It said Ms V wasnt suffering from an acute 
medical condition  and that according to Dr F her risk of developing glaucoma  in the next five 
years was only 35%. On this basis, it still felt her treatment was preventative and excluded 
under the terms  of the policy.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
The policy states  that it provides cover for treatment of an acute condition. It describes this 
as follows:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely  to respond quickly to treatment which  aims to return  
you to the state  of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or which leads to your full recovery
The policy states  that cover isnt provided  for preventative treatment and gives  the example 
of preventative mastectomy.
Ms V was referred to Dr W because she was experiencing symptoms  which  both he and 
Dr F confirmed were  consistent with intermittent angle closure.  Dr F later confirmed that 
Ref: DRN77963992Ms V was suffering from angle  closure  disease.  He said that in light of this diagnosis, Ms Vs 
risk of developing  glaucoma  (permanent  and irreversible loss of sight  through damage to the 
optic nerve) was around 35% over the next five years and virtually inevitable over the course  
of her lifetime. He therefore  thought  it was essential that she underwent the iridotomies. He 
confirmed that the same  recommendation  would have been  made  if Ms V had sought  
treatment through  the NHS.
AXA doesnt  dispute that Ms Vs treatment  was necessary but says that narrow  angles  are 
an anatomical variation,  not an acute condition. Given that she had only a 35% chance of 
developing glaucoma over the next five years, it considered her treatment could reasonably  
be regarded preventative and thus excluded from cover.
However, Dr F didnt  refer to Ms V suffering from an anatomical variation. He said she was 
suffering from a disease of which she had experienced symptoms (albeit she hadnt 
experienced them in the six months  before she saw him).  And he furthermore  said that 
without treatment, this disease  had a significant risk of resulting in permanent damage to her 
eye in the next five years and almost inevitably would do so over the course of her lifetime.
In these circumstances, I think AXA was wrong  to seek to apply the preventative treatment 
exclusion and should have accepted that Ms Vs treatment was eligible under the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I think AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited should accept  Ms Vs claim and pay benefit in accordance  with the 
policys remaining terms and conditions. If Ms V has already paid relevant invoices herself, 
AXA should  pay her the benefit  directly and should add interest at the annual simple  rate of 
8%, calculated from the date she paid the invoices to the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms V how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms V a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7796399