K821x#15complaint
Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited  (trading as Torch Wealth Management  Torch) 
advised Mr B to transfer his existing pension. Mr B has complained about that advice and 
the portfolio of investments Torch recommended.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in the provisional 
decision I issued in June  2019 (copy attached).  
Torch responded,  disagreeing  with my conclusions. In summary, it said:
Ive said that Id seen no evidence of any form of transfer value analysis. If this refers 
to a report formerly known  as a TVAS, then this is correct  as such  a report  is only 
required when considering a transfer  from a defined  benefit  pension. Torch was 
advising on transferring  from a defined contribution plan.
Torch did arrange for a comparison  report to be carried  out by a third party. This was 
used to compare  the charges of the two schemes, and was provided  to this service.  
The report showed that when considering fund charges and plan charges, the SIPP 
was cheaper.  
Torch also provides us with a report showing the effect of adding  its advice fees to 
the SIPP. This showed that the addition of the fees made the SIPP  more  expensive  
but not because of these fees. Mr B chose to pay for Torchs initial advice from his 
plan. The fee would  still have been charged  if hed been  advised to stay in his 
existing plan. 
Mr B also chose  Torchs ongoing  review  service, and if this had been added  to his 
existing plan it would have still been more  expensive.  These  fees would have 
become irrelevant of the outcome.
Whist there were no other investment  funds  available,  this would have been unlikely 
to reduce the cost. In any event, it would  have been  very likely that the use of at least  
some funds  managed  externally to the pension provider would have increased the 
charges further.  
Mr B accepted Torchs fees,  and signed  a fee agreement.
Mr B confirmed he had nothing to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Torchs response to my provisional decision largely concentrates  on the comparison  of 
charges between Mr Bs existing plan and the SIPP  it recommended.  Torch has referred  to 
two reports it says were carried out to show the comparison  of charges. But Ive checked the 
file of papers Torch  sent us, and can confirm these reports  werent included.  Further, there 
was no reference  to such reports in the covering letter Torch  sent with its file, although a 
number of other documents are listed. Torch also made no reference  to the reports when 
responding to the adjudicators view.  
But while Ive considered the further  comments Torch has made about the charges, I think 
these miss the point  that I found  the advice to transfer into the SIPP so as to invest in the 
Ref: DRN78678422Aggressive Model Portfolio wasnt suitable  in itself. I found that the portfolio wasnt 
compatible with Mr Bs attitude  to risk. Also, Mr B had a relatively modest pension fund, and I 
think hed have gained  little advantage from having  it managed on a discretionary basis.  I 
think the cost of such a service may well have outweighed any benefit. 
Torch says Mr B agreed to pay its fees,  and this would  have  been  the case whether or not 
he transferred. But from what Ive seen it appears that the fee arrangement was based  on 
the assumption that Mr B would transfer his existing plan to a SIPP. The initial fee couldnt  
have been paid from his pension had he remained  with his existing provider. 
In my view, it was always likely that Mr B was going to be advised to transfer into the SIPP 
so as to be able to invest  in the stockbrokers portfolio.  It seems  Torchs view at the time was 
that this was a good investment for a number of its clients who sought advice about their 
existing pension plans.  Its not possible for me to say with any certainty what agreement  
would have been reached as to fees if Torch had given true consideration to Mr B remaining 
in his current plan,  whether  or not this would have involved a change to the funds he was 
invested in. 
I would add that the method of compensation Ive proposed essentially ignores the effect of 
charges. Its simply a comparison of the performance of two investment  indices.  
fair compensation
Torch should undertake  the following:
1.Calculate the value  of Mr Bs original  pension plan as at the date of my final decision 
had it been invested  in line with the FTSE UK Private Investor Income  Total Return 
Index. 
2.Calculate the value  as at the date of my final decision  of the portion of the pension 
fund invested  in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the 
FTSE UK Private  Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
3.Establish the portion of the pension fund which remained in cash as at the date of my 
final decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). 
I should make Mr B aware  that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial 
loss. If there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mr Bs pension  plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able 
Ref: DRN78678423to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss should  be paid within 28 days of Torch being notified of Mr Bs acceptance  of my 
final decision. If its paid later,  Torch should add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
my decision  to the date of payment.  
Separate from and additional  to the above,  Torch should pay Mr B the sum of £300 for the 
trouble and upset  hes been caused by the advice to transfer his pension  benefits. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited to compensate 
Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78678424COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Economic Financial  Solutions IFA Limited (trading  as Torch Wealth  Management   Torch) advised 
Mr B to transfer his existing pension. Mr B has complained about  that advice and the portfolio of 
investments Torch recommended.
background
At the time of the advice in July 2015, Mr B was 45 years old and married with one dependant. He 
was self-employed in the retail sector earning £18,000 a year. He had a personal pension plan valued 
at just over £49,000, and £5,000 held on deposit jointly  with his wife but no other recorded  
investments.  
Torch assessed Mr Bs attitude to risk as very  high (9 on a scale of 1-10), but it seems this was 
subsequently reduced to 7 (highest medium).
Torch recommended a transfer into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). The full value  would be 
invested by a stockbroker under its discretionary  management. Torch  recommended the 
stockbrokers Aggressive  Model Portfolio as a being  suitable for Mr B. Torch  also said the new plan 
was cheaper and offered a wider investment  choice and flexibility.
The transfer  took place  and £48,919.33 was transferred into the SIPP.  Of this, £45,712.56  was 
passed to the stockbroker to invest. The remainder was placed in a cash account.
Between October 2015 and November  2016, Torch was in communication  with the stockbroker and 
SIPP provider over concerns  that the stockbroker wasnt investing the funds in line with the model 
portfolio.
Mr B complained directly  to this service in August  2016. He said he was advised by Torch to transfer 
his pension into a SIPP and for the pension fund to be managed by the stockbroker.  The stockbroker 
had invested over 98% of his pension in penny shares, and this has resulted in a severe loss. 
As Torch  hadnt been given the opportunity of considering the complaint, we made  it aware of Mr Bs 
complaint. Torch responded to say that it had recommended the SIPP for the flexibility it offered and 
the Aggressive Model Portfolio  as being suitable  for Mr Bs attitude  to risk. But the stockbroker had 
failed to invest  the monies  in line with the agreed mandate. Torch had no influence on this.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint,  and thought it should  be upheld.  He said:
He didnt  think Mr B was prepared  to take a high risk with his pension.  He noted Mr B had no 
other investments and very little savings. His income  was not significant. So even if Mr B 
wanted to take a higher risk, he didnt  have  the capacity to do so.
While  the SIPP may have been more flexible  than the existing plan, the reference to Pension 
Freedoms wasnt relevant to Mr B. These werent  available until age 55, so wouldnt have 
been applicable to Mr B for another ten years. 
Also,  Mr Bs existing  plan had lower charges than the SIPP, and offered a range of funds 
Mr B could invest in. 
Overall, there was no need to transfer, and Mr B should have been advised to remain in his 
existing plan.  
Ref: DRN78678425But the adjudicator also recognised that the stockbroker had failed to invest  in line with the mandate 
of the Aggressive Model Portfolio. So he thought  it wouldnt  be fair to include any loss attributable to 
the stockbroker. He thought the loss using  this methodology was around £3,800,  assuming  the SIPP  
no longer held any cash. He also thought Mr B should be paid £300 for the trouble and upset  hed 
been caused.  
Torch didnt  agree. It said that not all the funds transferred  into the SIPP  were  passed to the 
stockbroker to invest. This money was left in cash to cover the initial cost and ongoing fees.  This was 
also the case  with Mr Bs existing plan. So it felt any redress  should take this into account.  But to draw 
matters to a close, Torch said it was willing  to pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr B wasnt prepared  to accept the offer, and the adjudicator wrote to Torch explaining that he didnt 
agree with its comments about the cash held in Mr Bs existing plan. 
Torch then made an increased offer of £2,840.35.  This related to the fees paid from the SIPP. Mr B 
also rejected  this offer.  
As the matter  remains  unresolved, it has been passed to me for consideration.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take 
into account  relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, relevant  
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the 
time.
Im aware Mr B has also complained about the stockbrokers actions.  Thats been the subject of a 
separate claim by Mr B which is now with the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Although I need to take into account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker, to avoid any 
doubt I should  stress  that my decision  here concerns  Mr Bs complaint about  Torchs  actions and the 
extent to which they have contributed to any losses Mr B may have incurred.
In my view,  there are three  specific questions I must answer in order to determine  whether Torch 
acted fairly and reasonably  when it advised Mr B to move his pension funds  to the SIPP and invest  
them in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  This also assists me in determining whether  the 
transfer was in Mr Bs best interests  and if not, what I consider he ought  to have been  advised to do 
instead:
firstly, was the level of risk of the recommended investment the correct  one for Mr B? 
secondly, was the new arrangement more expensive  or less expensive than Mr Bs previous 
pension arrangement?
and thirdly, what alternatives were open to Mr B to meet his objectives?  
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mr B?
Mr B completed a risk profile questionnaire,  in which he was asked to agree or disagree  with a 
number of statements. Torch  used  this to assess Mr Bs attitude to risk. He was found  to be 9 on a 
scale of 1 to 10. This was described as very high. 
Im not convinced  this was an accurate assessment. Mr B doesnt seem to have much in the way of 
investment experience, and had limited scope for taking a high level of risk with his pension.  And as 
Ive noted above, it seems his risk profile  was reduced to highest medium. Its not clear  how this 
came about, but Im also not convinced this was an accurate  assessment. 
Ref: DRN78678426Overall, I dont think the Aggressive Model  Portfolio was a suitable recommendation for Mr B. The 
stockbrokers factsheet for the portfolio said it would  primarily invest in ETFs  [Exchange Traded 
Funds], quality corporate bonds, cash and other passive investments. The stockbroker used a risk 
scale of 1 to 10 and said it would anticipate the collection  of funds within the portfolio  to expose an 
investor to a level of risk in the range  of 6-7. It said the actual asset allocation as at May 2015 was 
90% international  equities  and 10% UK government debt. In my view, the portfolio  posed more risk 
than Mr B was prepared, or in a position, to take.
was the new arrangement more or less expensive than Mr Bs previous pension?
Torch recommended the transfer into the SIPP, in part, because it said this had lower charges than 
Mr Bs existing plan. Ive not seen evidence  to support this. Torch doesnt  seem to have carried  out 
any form of transfer value  analysis,  which  would  compare Mr Bs existing plan with the proposed 
SIPP. 
I also note that in the suitability report, Torch said that taking account of effect of adviser charges the 
SIPP would need to grow at a higher rate than the existing plan in order  to match the projected value 
at retirement. In my view, this indicates that the SIPP was more  expensive than the existing  plan. 
what alternatives were open  to Mr B to meet his objectives?
The suitability report notes that Mr B had sought advice to see if his existing plan was still relevant 
and if there  was any merit in moving to a different provider. But there doesnt seem to be any 
suggestion he was unhappy with his current plan. I note that the investments in his plan in had 
achieved average growth of 7.65% over the previous five years. Torch  said the investments  were 
considered to represent a low risk. 
Mr B was advised  to transfer to a new plan rather than remain with his existing provider because this 
would be cheaper. But as Ive explained  above,  I disagree with this assessment.  
A further reason for transferring into the SIPP was because of the extra  flexibility  such  plans offer.  
The suitability report refers  to flexibility when Mr B starts drawing his pension and also to the Pension 
Freedoms which the Government was introducing. But Mr B was still several years away from when 
he would be likely to start taking his pension.  So there was little prospect of him being able to take 
advantage of the new freedoms in the short term. 
Also, while a SIPP will generally give access to a wider range of investment funds, Im not convinced 
this was particularly relevant  to Mr B. I find it unlikely he would have wanted to invest in the type of 
non-mainstream investments SIPPs  providers  sometimes allow.  Nor do I think  this type of investment 
would have been suitable  for Mr B. 
The option of remaining in Mr Bs current plan was discounted by Torch. But I think this was a 
reasonable approach that should have  been  considered. On the whole, Im not convinced there was 
any obvious  reason to change his current investment  strategy. But if this had been thought  
appropriate, its likely that the provider  would  have had a range of funds available  which Torch could  
have recommended.  
in summary
For all of the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly  and reasonably  when it advised  
Mr B to move his pension to the new SIPP  and to invest in the stockbrokers Aggressive  Model 
Portfolio. My view is that, suitably  advised, Mr B would  have remained in his existing  plan. 
Ive therefore considered how Mr B should  be compensated for the unsuitable advice, and its here 
that I depart from the adjudicators conclusions.   
Ref: DRN78678427The adjudicator proposed that the portion  of Mr Bs pension fund passed to the stockbroker should be 
removed from the calculation. I dont agree with this suggestion. 
The stockbrokers stated benchmark for the Aggressive  Model Portfolio was the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Stock Market  Global Growth Index. On the whole, I consider  this to be a fair and reasonable 
method for determining likely investment performance had the portfolios stated objectives  and 
investment strategy been  followed by the stockbroker.
Ive noted Torchs comments  about some  of Mr Bs existing plan being  held in a cash account.  Mr Bs 
existing pension seems to have been a straightforward  personal pension plan. Theres no obvious 
reason why a significant sum should be held in cash. Plans  of this type would normally have all, or 
very nearly all, their monies invested in funds designed to provide a return. Holding  money in cash 
would usually only be a temporary  measure.  Further, the benchmark Im proposing  to use assumes  
some of the assets will be in cash. 
 
Torch was acting as independent financial  advisers  and could have advised Mr B on how to invest his 
existing plan.  I think  suitable  advice would have been for Mr Bs pension fund to be fully invested to 
maximise his investment opportunities. I have therefore taken this into account  when considering 
what would be fair compensation in this case.
I have set out how I think  Mr B should be compensated below. 
fair compensation
The stockbroker was instructed to invest using  its Aggressive  Model Portfolio.  Mr B has complained 
that the stockbroker  didnt actually invest the funds in line with that instruction,  and that as a result  he 
suffered further losses. Torch too has said the majority of the investments the stockbroker made  bore 
no resemblance to Torchs  judgement of the type of investment which  was suited to Mr B. As I said 
above, theres  a separate claim  against the stockbroker and its now in the hands of the FSCS. I make 
no findings on the stockbrokers actions in this decision.
My provisional  conclusion here is that the transfer to the new SIPP and subsequent intended 
investment in the Aggressive Model Portfolio, as recommended by Torch, wasnt suitable for Mr B in 
the first place. In my view, Mr B should have remained in his original pension plan and invested in a 
fund (or funds) that suited  his attitude  to risk. 
Mr Bs original pension provider has told us it is unable to calculate  what his plan would have been  
worth had he not transferred  into the SIPP.  Further, Mr B may have been advised to invest  in different 
funds. In the circumstances, I think  it would  be fair to calculate the value of Mr Bs original plan by 
reference to the FTSE UK Private  Investor Income Total Return  Index. 
The FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total  Return Index  is a mix of diversified  indices  representing 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. At the time of the transfer (when it 
was called  the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income Total Return  Index) its asset allocation  was: 35% UK 
equities, 17.5% international equities, 32.5% bonds,  5% cash,  5% commercial  property and 5% 
hedge funds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  I think this provides a reasonable proxy for the type of returns  that would have been 
achieved with suitable advice. 
Following the transfer,  most of the pension monies were due to be managed  by the stockbroker in line 
with the Aggressive Model Portfolio. For the reasons Ive explained above,  I think  a comparison with 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market Global Growth Index  would provide a reasonable proxy 
for what the portfolio  would have achieved had it been invested in line with the mandate. 
Subject to my final decision remaining the same, Torch should therefore undertake the following:
Ref: DRN786784281.Calculate the value of Mr Bs original pension plan as at the date of my final decision had 
it been invested in line with the FTSE  UK Private Investor Income Total  Return  Index. 
2.Calculate the value as at the date of my final decision of the portion of the pension  fund 
invested in the Aggressive Model Portfolio had it been invested  in line with the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index.
3.Establish the portion  of the pension  fund which  remained in cash as at the date of my 
final decision. 
The loss is 1  (2 + 3). 
I should  make  Mr B aware that its possible the above calculation may not show a financial loss. If 
there is a loss, Torch should  pay into Mr Bs pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Torch is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr Bs pension plan, it should pay that amount  direct 
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr B is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr B would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Any loss should be paid within 28 days of Torch  being notified of Mr Bs acceptance of my final 
decision. If its paid later, Torch should add simple interest  at 8% a year from the date of my decision  
to the date of payment. 
Separate from and additional to the above, Torch should pay Mr B the sum of £300 for the trouble and 
upset hes been caused by the advice to transfer his pension benefits. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited 
should pay the compensation set out above.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7867842