K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that the car he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc was misrepresented.
Background
Mr T entered  into a conditional sale agreement with Santander in October 2018 to acquire a 
used car. He says the car was advertised  as having a full manufacturers service history  but 
when he made contact about a possible part exchange of the car in March 2019, he was told 
that it hadnt had its running service in line with the manufacturers requirements. He says 
he was told this would invalidate any subsequent  warranty.  
Mr T contacted the dealer about this issue and received a response  from the dealers 
solicitors saying that the car had a complete service record. He then raised his complaint  
with Santander  and was told the car had a full service history but this was a bad service 
history. He was told he could exchange his car with the dealer but the amount he would 
receive was less than the settlement amount on his agreement. 
Santander says that the service book shows the running in service was done  but that this 
was late. It says it discussed  this with the manufacturer  and it confirmed  this would affect  the 
cars warranty and it could be considered as having  a bad service history. However it says 
that this doesnt  mean it didnt have a full service history. It also says that the service book 
was available  to Mr T at the point of supply and so he was aware of the service history of the 
car and still went ahead with the acquisition. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said the advertisement  for the car said it 
had a full service history. She said the service history showed it was first serviced  in 
November 2015  after it had been driven  2,500 miles and not at the recommended 1,200 
miles. She said in order for her to say there was a misrepresentation in regard to the service  
history she would need to be satisfied that the full service history was a main reason for Mr T 
acquiring the car. If this was the case she said she would  have  expected Mr T to check  the 
service history at the point  of supply and query any discrepancies.  She said this issue wasnt  
raised until a number of months later.
Our investigator said that she didnt accept a misrepresentation  had occurred. She said the 
car had been  regularly  serviced and Mr T was given the service  book at the point  of supply.
Mr T didnt  accept our investigators view.  He said that the car was advertised with a full 
manufacturers service history meaning it had every service conducted  as per the 
manufacturers requirements. He said that as this wasnt the case he wasnt able to sell the 
car to a dealer. He also said that the long term mechanical reliability of the car had been 
compromised by it not having the running in service at the right time.  He reiterated that not 
having the full manufacturers  service meant the warranty would be invalidated if the car was 
to be sold again.  
Mr T said that he could have acquired a similar car for a cheaper price  but he acquired 
through the dealer as he wanted to be able to trust that the car was to the specification 
described and that it included  having  a full manufacturers service history. He said that 
service history and maintenance were of key importance to him and he was within his rights 
to trust what he was told in regard  to this. He said advertising the car as having a full 
manufacturers service history was a misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN75180132My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr T entered  into a conditional sale agreement with Santander to acquire a used car. Under  
the regulations,  Santander can be held liable if the car was misrepresented  to Mr T, this 
includes any misrepresentations made  by the dealer which induced Mr T into entering  into 
the acquisition.
Mr T says the car was misrepresented because he was told that it had a full manufacturers 
service history. I have  looked at the advertisement provided and this is clearly stated. Mr T 
says that this was an important consideration for him and that he chose to acquire through  a 
recognised dealer to ensure he could trust the information he was being given He said that 
the service and maintenance of the vehicle was a key consideration to him.
Santander says that the car does  have a full manufacturers service history but that because 
the running in service  was carried out late this could be considered  a bad service  history. It 
says Mr T was provided with the service history  at the point of acquisition and so this 
information was available  to him at that time and he chose to go ahead.
In order to say that a misrepresentation  has occurred I need to be satisfied that a false  
statement of fact has been made  and that this false  statement induced Mr T into acquiring 
the car. 
The information shows that the car was advertised  as having a full manufacturer service  
history. Mr T believed this to mean  that all services had happened on time and to the 
manufacturers requirements. However, Santander has said that the service  history was 
complete and it showed all services  had taken place and when these had happened,  even if 
late. I can understand both points of view in regard to this issue. 
However the service  history was available to Mr T at the point of supply and that this clearly 
showed when  the services  had taken place. I note Mr Ts comments that the service  history 
wasnt pointed out to him or discussed  in any way, but as it was available,  had this been of 
key importance  to Mr T I would have  expected  him to check this and challenge any issues  at 
that time.  Given this, on balance, while I appreciate  the point  made by Mr T, I do not find that 
I have enough  to say that a misrepresentation has occurred.
Mr T has explained  that the service history and maintenance of the car were important to 
him. I understand this and his concern that because the running in service  was late it might 
may lead to possible future issues. However  I cant comment  on issues  that havent yet 
arisen and I have to make  my decision based  on the information available to me. I have 
nothing to suggest the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply and so I 
havent considered this aspect of his complaint any further.
I understand why Mr T is upset and his comments about relying  on the information provided 
to him. However, in this case,  as the service  history was available, I do not find on balance 
Ref: DRN75180133that I have  enough evidence to say that a misrepresentation has occurred. Therefore I do 
not find that I can uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7518013