K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  told them to change 
their account  to a fee-paying 123 account in July 2012 when it has not been of much use to 
them.
They have also complained that Santander increased the amount it charged customers to 
use their overdraft and hasnt dealt with their financial difficulties in a reasonable way.
background
Our adjudicators assessed this complaint and didnt think that Santander  should  refund Mr 
and Mrs Fs monthly account  fees or overdraft charges. But they did think  that Santander 
couldve done more  to help them when they told Santander about  their financial 
circumstances. So they asked Santander to refund  the overdraft charges that were applied 
to the account  in August  and September 2018,  with interest.  
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators assessments and so the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to decide what to do about  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  And having 
done so, I only uphold this complaint in part. I will explain  why.
sale of the 123 account
Mr and Mrs F say that because the account  they held was being  withdrawn, they were told to 
change their account to a Santander 123 account.  They say that Santander told them  that it 
would be beneficial for them. At the time, the 123 account incurred  a £2 monthly fee and in 
return it paid 1% cashback on water and council tax Direct Debits, 2% cashback on 
electricity and gas Direct Debits and 3% on communications  Direct Debits  providing they 
paid in £500 a month  and had at least  two Direct  Debits set up on the account.  
Based on what I can see from their bank statements, Mr and Mrs F met the account criteria  
and were receiving more than £2 each month  in cashback. So overall,  I think Santanders 
suggestion that they take out the 123 account  was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Because of this I dont think it would be appropriate to require Santander to refund Mr and 
Mrs Fs 123 account fees, even  if anything had gone wrong  at the time of the sale.
I note that the account fee has since increased  to £5 per month  in January 2016 and I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs F may not be receiving as much value for money from having the 
123 account as they originally did. But this doesnt mean that Santander was wrong or acting 
unfairly to have suggested  Mr and Mrs F to change their account to the 123 account in July 
2012. I wouldnt expect  Santander to monitor whether its packaged account customers  are 
using the benefits on their accounts. So it wouldve been up to the account  holders, in this 
case Mr and Mrs F, to change their account, if they felt that the 123 account was no longer 
right for them.
Ref: DRN78912082Santander was able to increase the monthly account fee - providing it gave Mr and Mrs F 
sufficient notice. And I can see Mr and Mrs F were  told in November 2015, about the 
increase in the monthly account fee due to take place in January 2016. So I think  Santander  
gave Mr and Mrs F a reasonable amount  of time to decide whether  they wanted  to keep the 
123 account with the increased monthly fee or to change it to another  type of account that 
didnt incur a monthly fee.
Mr and Mrs F have  said that they regret having  been advised about the 123 account and 
refer to the large amount  of overdraft charges that they incurred on their account. But having 
the 123 account had no bearing on how much they were being charged on their overdraft. 
This is because Santander  has provided evidence which shows that it essentially charged  
the same  amounts for using an overdraft on the 123 account as it did on its fee-free 
Everyday current account. So although Mr and Mrs F may, with the benefit of hindsight, wish 
they hadnt agreed to the 123 account,  this in itself doesnt mean that Santander was wrong 
to have sold it to them  or should refund the 123 account fees. 
overdraft charges
A Supreme Court ruling in 2009 says that bank charges cant  be challenged on the basis  
that theyre too high. They can only be challenged if theyve been applied  incorrectly, against 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Fs bank account set out the charges Santander 
could apply if the overdraft was used.  And Ive seen from the statements Mr and Mrs F used 
their overdraft regularly   and Santander applied charges in line with those terms and 
conditions. 
I understand that Santander changed how it calculated its overdraft charges and this 
resulted in Mr and Mrs F having  to pay a lot more  for using their overdraft. But like the 
monthly fee for the 123 account, Santander  was able to amend how it charged  customers  for 
using an overdraft, providing it gave sufficient notice. Again I can see that Santander told Mr 
and Mrs F about those changes in advance of them coming into effect.  And looking at the 
amounts that were  charged,  they appear  to be in line with the amounts  Santander  were  
entitled to apply. 
Given all of this, I havent  seen any instances,  and Mr and Mrs F havent pointed  out any 
instances, where the overdraft charges were applied incorrectly.
financial difficulties
I accept that Mr and Mrs F were consistently overdrawn and that Santander had a duty to 
treat them both positively and sympathetically if they were experiencing financial hardship. 
But Ive not seen enough evidence to say that Mr and Mrs F raised this issue  with Santander 
directly, until that is, they complained in July 2018. Therefore, I cant hold Santander 
responsible for not giving Mr and Mrs F the relevant support they may have needed before 
they raised the complaint.  I say that because Mr and Mrs F would have  needed to have told 
Santander if they were  struggling  but I cant see that they did, so Santander  wouldnt have 
known anything was wrong.
Ref: DRN78912083However, Ive listened to the telephone call when  Mr and Mrs F made  their complaint to 
Santander. Santander did mention its financial assist  team,  however the call was ended  
without referring Mr and Mrs F to the financial assist team. As Mr and Mrs F referred  to the 
looping of overdraft  charges preventing them from bringing the account out of the overdraft, 
I think Santander couldve provided  more support and put them  through to the financial 
assist team,  even if Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. Mr and 
Mrs F didnt  refuse the initial suggestion of speaking to the financial assist team, but the 
conversation got caught up in the complaint  and the Santander representative  didnt again  
mention the possibility.
Santander says that its financial assist team wouldnt have waived Mr and Mrs Fs charges 
unless the account was in a credit balance. Santander  says the only option that the financial 
assist team  could offer was to put Mr and Mrs Fs account into collections and arrange  a 
repayment plan,  which wouldve  led to adverse information being recorded  on Mr and Mrs 
Fs credit file. Santander has also pointed  to the fact that as Mr and Mrs F were  able to clear 
the overdrawn balance  so quickly, they cant have  been in financial difficulties.
Had Mr and Mrs F been passed through to the financial assist team,  I dont think  it would 
have been treating Mr and Mrs F positively or sympathetically had it only given them  the 
option of putting their account into collections.  And, of course, Santanders recent  comments  
are essentially  hypothetical, as I would be surprised if its financial assist team didnt take a 
more individualised  approach to considering its customers  difficulties.
Mr and Mrs F have  said that they had to borrow money from elsewhere  to help clear the 
overdrawn balance  so I dont think just because they paid off their debt with Santander so 
quickly meant they werent  struggling financially. And had Mr and Mrs F been  put through  to 
the financial assist  team, Santander wouldve had the opportunity to find out the level of Mr 
and Mrs Fs indebtedness  to other parties.
Overall I think  it would have been reasonable to have offered to waive  the overdraft charges 
for a short period of time, as by that point Mr and Mrs F clearly had a plan as to how to 
theyd clear the overdraft  debt within  a relatively  short space of time  even if it did involve 
borrowing money from elsewhere. So I agree with the adjudicator  that Santander couldve 
done more to support Mr and Mrs Fs financial situation when they spoke to Santander about 
their complaint. Although I note that the adjudicator said that debit interest should be paid on 
the August  2018 overdraft charge. But as the overdraft  charges were based on set amounts 
rather than interest, and as Mr and Mrs F had to use money from elsewhere to pay those 
charges, I think that awarding 8% simple  interest on both charges is fairer.
Because of this, I think its not unreasonable to require Santander to refund the overdraft 
charges they applied  to Mr and Mrs Fs account in August and September 2018, with 
interest. 
However, for the reasons  outlined above,  I dont think  Santander needs to pay back to Mr 
and Mrs F the 123 account fees they paid or any further overdraft charges.
I appreciate that they may be disappointed with this decision, but I hope I have been able to 
explain the reasons  why I have only upheld this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN78912084what Santander needs to do put matters  right
To put matters right, I require Santander  to:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the two overdraft charges applied to the account in August and 
September 2018;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid each  one, until they get 
them back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year ;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint in part and require Santander 
UK Plc to do what I have  said above  to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7891208