K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the interest  hes been charged by TSB Bank plc on two personal 
loans.
background
Mr C took out a personal loan with TSB for £8,000 in December 2014. He took out another  
personal loan for £5,000 in December  2015.
In 2018 Mr C complained  to TSB that it had been  overcharging interest on his loans. TSB 
didnt agree and sent Mr C statements  for both loans from the days they were  taken  out.
Mr C wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld  as she didnt think  TSB 
had been charging too much interest. Mr C didnt  agree with our adjudicators 
recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both loans  allowed Mr C to delay making any repayment for four months  after they were 
taken out. Mr C took advantage of this provision  on both loans. He didnt make  any 
payments on the loan he took out in December 2014 until April 2015  and he didnt make 
any payments on the loan he took out in December 2015 until April 2016.
The terms and conditions  of the loans say interest would be charged  from the day the loans  
were provided. This meant the outstanding  balances had gone up due to the addition  of 
interest when Mr C started to make  repayments. I think Mr C should have been aware of 
this.
The terms and conditions  also allow Mr C to take payment holidays. Mr C didnt  need  to 
make normal  payments during a holiday but the terms and conditions say TSB would 
continue to charge  interest on the balance  of the loans. The terms and conditions explain 
that taking a holiday would mean Mr C would  pay more interest overall.  
I can see Mr C took payment holidays on both loans in August 2016, February 2017, 
December 2017  and February 2018. I think he should have known that this would result in 
him having to pay additional interest.
Ive looked carefully  at the statements TSB gave Mr C for the loans. Im satisfied interest  has 
been calculated  throughout  at the rates  of interest  Mr C agreed to pay, The amount of 
interest varies from month to month  but this is because of the number of days in each  month 
and the outstanding balance at the beginning  of the month. This is explained in the terms 
and conditions.
Ref: DRN71152762Mr C has complained about the service hes received from TSB in relation to this and other 
complaints hes made. I havent considered this in my decision because its been considered 
by this service in connection with another of Mr Cs complaints
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against TSB Bank  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7115276