K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains on her behalf of her mother, Mrs G, that Grange Financial Planning Ltd 
wrongly recommended switching her invested money into excessively risky funds and 
without providing  the full paperwork. It also ignored the fact that she was very vulnerable in 
the light of her husbands recent demise and was in the early stages of dementia.
background
At the time of advice  in 2017 Mrs G owned a house  worth £2.5 million, had more than £150k 
in low to medium risk investments, £9,000 in risk-free sources and appeared to be spending 
£12,000 a year less than the pension income  she was receiving.  
Her prime recorded objective was to reduce her very considerable inheritance tax (IHT)  
liability, along with the potential to take some income.  She was planning  to downsize to help 
facilitate this but also wanted immediate  investment  advice. 
She agreed  to surrender her £150k plus investments (for which  there were no early 
surrender fees) and put this money  into an AIM-listed fund specifically  designed to provide 
IHT relief  after two years, when all the money would be removed  from her estates 
assessable assets.
An investigator at this service did not feel the evidence was sufficient to warrant upholding 
the complaint.
He acknowledged  that the recommended  fund posed a greater risk than the level of risk that 
Mrs G had been assessed as willing to take. But he didnt think this automatically meant that 
the advice was unsuitable given  Mrs Gs overall circumstances.
.
He felt that as Mrs Gs estate could  be subjected to an IHT bill of £900,000 there were  no 
obvious risk-free or low risk ways of doing  this. For example, gifting sums would have only 
had a marginal  impact on the IHT situation while placing this money  in trust would only have 
achieved full IHT freedom if Mrs G lived to at least 90 years  of age.
He said that while he couldnt be certain what had been discussed in the advice meetings or 
what documents Mrs G had received he felt the available  evidence indicted she had been 
made fully aware  of the risks posed by this investment. He quoted from various  reports in 
support of this view.
He also felt there was no persuasive evidence to suggest that the advisor  was aware,  or 
might have been made aware, that Mrs G was not able to make an informed decision about  
whether to go ahead  with this recommendation at the time.
Mrs C did not agree, and reiterated that she and her mother had not been given key 
documents and were  not aware of the risks involved with this fund. She also felt that other 
options should have been explored, particularly equity release and sketched out the sort of 
sums that this could  have produced (with  the money  being  put into trust).
Further, she felt the business had wrongly advised  her mother  to sell particular shares  and 
without a full consideration  of this and without written advice or explanation.
Ref: DRN71359412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  Mrs Gs daughters reservations about this advice. It is in general not good 
advice to recommend  that anyone exposes all their investable  money  to a fairly high degree 
of risk, particularly if theyre not in a good  position to replace any losses. There  is also no 
dispute that the recommended  fund was significantly more risky than Mrs Ss existing  
investments.
But in my view Mrs Gs circumstances were  quite unusual in that her overwhelming  and 
understandable concern was to try and minimise the inheritance tax liability  on her 
considerable assets, something not easy to achieve without taking some significant risks. If, 
for example, she had put this money  in trust she would have had to live at least  seven  years  
for it all to fall outside her estates assessable assets. So I think it is entirely  understandable 
that the advisor did not recommend this option.
The actual recommendation meant the entire £150k would become IHT-free within two 
years, thereby  avoiding a 40% tax levy i.e. preserving £60k of her money which  would 
otherwise be paid in death duties. Assuming the investment has not been sold recently,  this 
has now happened. In this context  I dont think it was an unreasonable to recommend what  
was clearly a fairly high risk investment in return for a guaranteed  high gain (after two years).
When considering  the suitability  of any advice it is not my role to speculate as to whether 
other options might have  been potentially as suitable. If, of course, the evidence  indicates 
there was an obviously  superior option which was ignored that is something I would assess. 
But there are very clear drawbacks to equity release, including  the seven year time lag 
before the money is fully free of IHT liability so I dont believe the advisor was negligent in 
not considering  this.
I have then considered  the extent to which Mrs G was, on balance,  likely to have been 
aware of the nature  of this proposed risky recommendation  and been  able to take an 
informed decision about going ahead with it, taking account of her daughters involvement in 
some of the discussions.
I accept that the advisors report could have spelt out the level of risk more clearly,  
particularly that the recommended fund posed a significantly greater  risk than Mrs Gs 
existing investments. I have also seen  no evidence  of an illustrations document.  But, overall, 
I think he did make clear  this product posed particular and greater risks than a normal low-
medium risk product and I think it should have been evident to Mrs G and her daughter  that 
this was far from a typical investment product (necessarily so since  it provided a unusually  
high and rapid means to remove assets from IHT). 
I also dont believe that an illustrations document in itself would have provided greater 
awareness about the issue of risk. It would probably have just provided  illustrated 
growth/return figures and stated that they were  not guaranteed (like Mrs Gs existing 
investments).
I also do not think there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to conclude that Mrs G was not in 
a position to make an informed decision  about the recommendation. If her daughter was 
Ref: DRN71359413aware of the early  stages of dementia  I do not understand why she did not point this out to 
the advisor and/or simply say that her mother was not in a position  to agree to anything.
I note the additional concerns about  cashing in various shares fairly shortly after this advice 
but  like the investigator  I have not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that this was as a 
result of specific advice from the business.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G/her  
representative to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135941