K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complaint arises  from the service provided  by Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  plc 
(RSA) in connection with a home emergency  insurance policy.
RSA uses agents  to administer the policy on its behalf and also to deal with claims and 
complaints. Any reference to RSA in this decision should be read as including anything said 
or done on its behalf by those agents.  
background 
Mrs B has held the policy from late 2016. It includes  cover for her central heating system and 
an annual service of the boiler. RSA didnt underwrite  the home emergency cover until the 
policy renewed in late 2017. 
On 29 December 2018, Mrs B contacted RSA to make  a claim under the policy, as her boiler 
stopped working.  It sent an engineer out to look at the boiler. The engineer said the 
condensate pipe was blocked  and so cleared that but he also said there was a leak from the 
plate to plate heat exchanger, which was caused by a build  up of scale. RSA said that 
damage caused by sludge, scale or other debris in the system,  is not covered under the 
policy. 
 
Mrs B instructed her own engineer, who essentially agreed with the diagnosis  of why the 
boiler wasnt working but said it could have been  prevented. He advised Mrs B to replace the 
boiler which cost her just over £3,000.  Mrs B is very unhappy with this and has made a 
number of submissions  in complaint to RSA which Ive summarised below:  
She understands that sludge  isnt covered by the policy but this is a scam, as RSA 
could simply say anything  is wrong  with the boiler. The checklist provided to her by 
RSA doesnt say much.
There were  issues  that had been  occurring with the boiler for some time that were  
never dealt with properly by RSA. 
RSA still took a premium in January  2019,  when her boiler  had not been working for 
around a month.
When the boiler was serviced by RSA as part of the cover,  it reported  that there were  
"no visible leaks" but there were some  very visible leaks  from her boiler, shown in 
photographs she has sent to us, and corrosion in several places. This damage didnt 
happen quickly and would have been  building  up for some  time. 
Her engineer  confirmed in a report that there  was not much  sludge in her central 
heating system. 
RSA failed to properly service the boiler  in 2017 and 2018, if it had then the scale  
build up on the heat exchanger would have been spotted and could have been dealt 
with sooner.
RSA says it cancelled  the policy with effect  from 22 January 2019 it also said that testing for 
sludge or scale would not form part of the normal boiler service and this is specifically 
excluded in the contract wording: Annual  Boiler Service The annual boiler service does not 
include: Testing the system for the presence of sludge.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  Mrs B 
was given enough information  to be able to mitigate her own losses.  The investigator didnt 
think RSA had demonstrated why the engineers  didnt check for scale  as part of the previous 
Ref: DRN78253492annual services. She recommended that RSA should refund the cost of the new boiler 
(£3,074.56). 
Mrs B agreed with the investigators opinion, save that she says there was an additional  
labour cost of £85.00, which she would like included in the award.
RSA disagreed with the investigators  opinion.  It offered Mrs B £200.00  compensation. RSA  
has made a number of points, summarised  below: 
It agrees that there were a number of issues with Miss Bs boiler which would  have 
taken years to develop. But no leaks have ever been reported to it previously, so its 
fair to assume there was probably  a leak before its policy  started, which  was repaired 
but left its mark on the boiler. As this would have been before the insurance policy, 
it would  not be covered.  
It only serviced the boiler  in 2017  and 2018  and it has not seen  any service records  
from before then.  
Due to the age, make and model  of the boiler, it was at the end of its lifespan, even 
without the scale  issue. The typical lifespan of Mrs Bs boiler is 8-10 years,  if it is well 
maintained. So, even if the scale had been  pointed out to Mrs B earlier, it would only 
have meant that the boiler would  have been replaced earlier  it would still have 
needed to be replaced. 
This policy covers breakdowns and repairs and is not an advisory service as to when 
a customer should replace  the boiler.  The only time it will advise if the boiler needs to 
be replaced is if the boiler cannot  be repaired and / or is beyond economical  repair. 
It accepts  there are concerns about the standard of the annual  service in 2018. The 
engineer that attended in December 2018  said hed had to clean out the condensate 
trap but this should  have been done  as part of that service  and should not have  built 
up enough to need doing again  within four months. RSA says there was a fault with 
the ignition, which could cause more  products  of combustion and could explain why 
this has filled up again but it acknowledges this is a concern. 
However, its engineers can only deal with faults  as they occur. The boiler  was 
working and no leaks  or faults  had been  reported until 28 December 2018, so there  
was nothing that it could have done  before that. 
RSA does not therefore agree to reimburse  the cost of the new boiler, but offered £200 
compensation to reflect  the lack of advice given  by the service  engineer.  
As a result of RSAs submissions, our investigator  changed her view.  She recommended 
that RSAs new offer was fair and reasonable. She said that in addition RSA should  as 
cover ceased on 22 January 2019 - refund the payment of £20.75 in February 2019. 
RSA agreed with the investigators changed  opinion.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators changed  opinion and so the matter has been referred 
to me. Mrs B says she was never  expecting  the cost of the new boiler but she does expect 
some compensation for the six/seven weeks that she was without a working boiler because 
of the poor servicing of her boiler. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78253493Mrs Bs policy covers  various issues that might arise with a central heating boiler but 
specifically excludes  damage cased by sludge or scale:  
What is not covered
1.11. Damage caused by or arising  from sludge, scale  and other debris in the central  heating
system and related pipework.
The problem with Mrs Bs boiler appears  to have been scale  on the heat exchanger   this is 
a result of a leak causing limescale to build  up and eventually block it. While this is not 
covered, Mrs B says that the scale was allowed to build up to the extent  it did because RSA 
had failed to service the boiler properly in previous  years. Mrs Bs engineer  has supported  
this. His report says:  
It was obvious that the boiler  has not been serviced or maintained properly over the years.  
Theres a number of leaks on the boiler  that have been  leaking for a long time to cause  the 
damage they have  ie rust and scale. These are mainly from the Automatic air vent (on the 
main heat exchanger)  and the washer on the hot connection, easily  rectified by replacing  the 
parts, this should  have been  discussed  during the service and maintenance contract  
especially as leaking AAVs are quite  common,  I replace many.  The leak from the AAV
has caused a lot of damage/rust due to being left for so long. As for the hot connection  its 
just a washer that needs replaced  so also should have been dealt with/discussed.
Other issues  I found with the boiler again  due to lack of service  was the condensate trap 
being blocked solid, this trap is connected to the bottom of the heat exchanger  so when 
blocked the condensation cant drain  away and backs up (a well known issue  with these 
boilers). Also found a lot of debris in the main heat exchanger, all of this should have been 
cleaned out during a service which should be done  once a year.
Mrs Bs engineer found a couple  of other  faults as well (with the expansion  vessel  and a 
gauge) and so advised it would be better  to replace  the boiler. He also provided evidence 
that the water in the system was not particularly dirty and that sludge was not a problem. I 
also notice that the checklist  from the annual service on 6 August 2018 (despite British  Gas 
saying this is not checked) says is the system free from sludge and the answer is yes.
However, although RSA says the policy sets out that an annual service  would  not normally  
test for sludge it does  not say it will not check for scale or other  debris. Sludge is in the water  
circulating in the central heating system.  I consider  that looking for obvious  scale build up on 
the components  of the boiler would be something that should be done  during an annual  
service, as would  cleaning the condensate trap. Mrs Bs engineer has stated that the scale  
was definitely  older  than five months  old  and so would have been  visible  when the most 
recent annual service was done  and therefore  it should have been raised and dealt with. 
I accept that RSA is not responsible for the scale  building up in the first place.  It serviced the 
boiler twice and theres no evidence as far as I am aware that Mrs B had reported any leaks 
to it during the time it was providing the cover.  Mrs B says there were some  ongoing issues  
but I cant see any evidence of any claims or reports of this to RSA.  Mrs Bs engineer says 
the boiler was not well maintained but it was already a few years  old before RSA began 
servicing it. 
The policy also doesnt cover damage  which is caused by scale. 
Ref: DRN78253494The things that RSA may have done wrong  therefore are not advising Mrs B that there was 
evidence of scale build up during  the annual services in 2017, and in particular in 2018;  
possibly not cleaning out the condensate trap; and not finding a leak on the air vent.
Theres no evidence that failing to clean out the condensate trap has resulted in the damage 
to the boiler. RSA says the heat exchanger  was leaking due to scale  build-up. Mrs Bs 
engineer doesnt state that this is incorrect. He refers to two specific leaks (although  he says 
there were others) one on an air vent attached to the heat exchanger, which  he says have 
caused rust and scale to build up as they were not repaired. However, he doesnt  state  how 
those leaks started. I have nothing to contradict therefore that (the main leak) was caused by 
the build-up of scale within the heat exchanger. 
If RSA had told Mrs B that there was a build up of scale in the heat exchanger and that the  
boiler was likely to need  to be replaced (or have extensive repairs  to it  that would not have 
been covered  by the policy) I dont  think that would have made  much  difference  to Mrs Bs 
position. She would  have  either had that work  done  sooner than she did, or she would have 
carried on with the boiler hoping  it would  continue working for as long as possible. Mrs Bs 
boiler was still working until December 2018.  
Overall therefore, although  I have  a lot of sympathy for the position Mrs B found herself in, I 
consider that the offer of £200  is not unreasonable to reflect the fact that the condensate  trap 
may not have been cleaned out properly and that RSA could have told Mrs B that there was 
likely to be some problems  with her boiler  in the future. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc 
should pay Mrs B the sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
by its handling  of her policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7825349