K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the way Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) handled  his case 
when he fell into arrears  on his account.
background 
Mr H took receipt of a used Volvo  in January 2016. He financed  the deal through a five year 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn but the account fell into arrears in December 
2016. The agreement  was terminated and the car was eventually repossessed by 
Moneybarn who sold it to reduce the arrears on the account.
Mr H is disappointed with the way Moneybarn have  handled  the process of collecting those 
arrears. Particularly as he is in poor health  that he says has been  worsened by their actions.
He wrote to us in early  July 2018 to summarise his complaint against Moneybarn  he said 
there were four main issues:
Moneybarn broke the repayment agreement by attempting  to take a payment on the 
wrong date
they didnt  give him the information  requested in order to make  an informed decision 
on the options they had offered  this related to the repossession of the vehicle
they gave  him false advice and guidance and didnt accept reasonable solutions
they didnt  take into account his vulnerability despite him telling them about his health  
issues
I note there  were some additional points that were considered by the business and our 
adjudicator. They also considered:
that the car wasnt repossessed for four months and prevented Mr H from having  
access to his drive
that the business sold the car for an unreasonable  price
Moneybarn explained  that a default  notice was issued at the end of November 2017 when 
the account was three months in arrears. This notice explained  that the vehicle would be 
repossessed and the finance agreement would be terminated if the arrears  werent  cleared 
in full. In December 2017 they said Mr H contacted  them  and explained his health  problems 
and that this had led to him losing his job but securing a new one on a lower  salary. They  
agreed a repayment  plan with him. 
But in January 2018 payments were  missed again  and the agreement was terminated by 
Moneybarn. They noted that Mr H had asked for a months grace  in making  payments but 
explained that this wasnt something  they offered. They discussed setting up a Consent 
Order which  would be approved by the courts but they noted they didnt send Mr H details of 
this when he asked  for them. So in March  2019 they offered the Consent  Order again. 
Overall they didnt think theyd made any mistakes when handling Mr Hs account  arrears  
situation.
But Mr H was dissatisfied with their response and he therefore referred it to this service 
where our adjudicator  considered all aspects of his complaint. In the main  she was 
persuaded that Moneybarn had managed Mr Hs arrears  situation correctly but she did think 
there were a few areas were they could have done  better.  She understood that not having 
Ref: DRN74177982access to his drive for four months, whilst the car was on it waiting to be repossessed,  would 
have been inconvenient and she also thought  it was clear  that the recovery  agents shouldnt 
have entered  Mr Hs private  property and should  have  considered  whether Mr H had any 
accessibility or communication needs as they were  aware of his health problems. So she 
thought they should  compensate  Mr H for the inconvenience hed been caused  and that in 
the circumstances a payment of £300  would be reasonable.
Moneybarn accepted the adjudicators view but Mr H didnt and he asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to hear about Mr Hs poor health.  Ive not referred  to the details  in this 
decision, as it will be published,  but I wanted  him to know that I understand things are, and 
have been, very difficult for him.
I agree  with the comments  that our adjudicator  has made. I can see that Moneybarn  couldve 
done some  things better and the compensation the adjudicator has set out seems sensible. 
But on the whole I think Moneybarns collection process and handling of the arrears situation  
was what I would expect  and in the main I dont think theres evidence  theyve done  much 
wrong. Please  let me explain. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
taking payments on the wrong date
Ive listened to the phone call Mr H had with Moneybarn  where  it was agreed that two direct 
debits would be set up; one on the first and one on the second  of the month.  Both of these 
payments bounced  but they appear  to have been set up on the correct  dates.  So I cant see 
that Moneybarn  made  a mistake here.
information about the repossession options
When the agreement  was terminated  there were still some  options Mr H had to keep his car. 
One was to arrange a Consent  Order and Mr H asked for the detail of this to be sent to him 
on 16 January. But its clear Moneybarn made a mistake and that information  wasnt sent. 
They did rectify the situation  in March when they provided Mr H with the option again and 
explained the process to him. But I agree this is an area in which Moneybarn need  to provide 
some compensation for the error  they made.
false advice and guidance and they didnt accept reasonable solutions
Ref: DRN74177983I dont think thats  a fair allegation as Ive not seen evidence that what Moneybarn  told Mr H 
was wrong. I think its clear they tried to help him as his account first fell into arrears a year 
and a half before the car was eventually repossessed.
taking account  of vulnerability 
It appears that the first time Moneybarn were aware of Mr Hs health concerns was in 
December 2017.  I can understand  that the collection process and the repossession process 
must have  been  very difficult for Mr H. But Ive not seen evidence  that Moneybarn  handled 
those, admittedly unwelcome and distressing processes, in an insensitive or discourteous 
manner and I dont  think theres evidence they showed contempt to Mr H.
the car blocked  Mr Hs driveway
I understand Mr Hs frustration that the car wasnt collected quickly  enough. Hed been told 
he wasnt allowed to drive  it and it must  have  been frustrating and inconvenient to have it 
block his path. I understand  the business  dispute whether Mr H couldve called to arrange 
and earlier  collection but I dont think that takes account of Mr Hs vulnerability  at that time. It 
would have been difficult and stressful to make  arrangements and I think  its fair to take that 
into account. I therefore agree with the adjudicator  that some compensation is due for the 
trouble and upset  that was caused. 
the price achieved at auction
The terms of Mr Hs finance agreement  explained that if it was necessary to terminate  the 
agreement and repossess the car they would sell the goods at public auction. So I dont 
think Moneybarn did anything wrong  when they did so.
Its very unfortunate  that the car didnt  achieve a higher  sales price but I cant  say 
Moneybarn have been unreasonable in accepting that price and I think  their approach  has 
been fair in the circumstances.
compensation
Its clear that Moneybarn couldve done things  a little better here. They  didnt provide 
information about the Consent Order when it was initially requested  and they didnt collect  
the car promptly and this caused some inconvenience. I note Mr H also complains  about  the 
collection agents entering his property to retrieve the car too as the car was on his driveway. 
I think the collection agents, acting on behalf of Moneybarn, couldve been a little more 
understanding of Mr Hs vulnerabilities given that they were  at this time aware  of them.  I 
think that overall, some compensation  is due for the distress and inconvenience  thats  been  
caused by these issues and in the circumstances I agree with the adjudicator that £300  
would be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN74177984my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Moneybarn  No. 1 
Limited to pay Mr H £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions 
have caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7417798