K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Harratts of Wakefield Limited  (Harratts) mis-sold  him a finance 
agreement.
background
In June 2015 Mr B traded  in his old car and took receipt of a new one through Harratts. He 
says he was told his previous  car had some  equity left in it but in December 2017  he 
became aware  that this wasnt the case and the negative equity in his previous finance  
agreement, on the old car, had been  added on to his new finance agreement. He said if he 
knew this was the case he wouldnt have entered into the agreement.
Harratts disputed this. They  said theyd reduced  the sales value  of the vehicle  Mr B financed  
by the amount of the negative equity plus a little more for optional  extras: they hadnt added  
the negative equity on to his debt.  But Mr B said the reduction in sales  value had been a 
goodwill gesture by Harratts and had nothing to do with the negative equity. He said theyd 
also provided him with GAP insurance and there were problems with that sale that the 
dealership had accepted.  He said this supported his argument that hed been  mis-sold.
So, dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt think there  
was evidence that the agreement was mis-sold. She noted that a discount  of £4,518.62 had 
been applied  to the sales price and that the negative equity on Mr Bs previous car was 
£3,673.77 and she thought it was more likely than not that this reduction was to cover the 
negative equity and wasnt  simply a gesture of goodwill by the dealership.  She thought the 
GAP insurance dispute was a separate issue to the one Mr B complained of and she wasnt  
persuaded it demonstrated the finance agreement had been mis-sold. So she didnt  think it 
would be fair to ask Harratts to take any further action.
But Mr B disagreed. He insisted he was never  told there was negative  and in fact he was 
told there was positive equity in his previous vehicle. He asked if there were any notes left 
on the salespersons file and when our adjudicator confirmed there werent,  he asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres evidence here that the agreement was mis-sold  to Mr B. I know  that will 
be disappointing for him so please let me explain why I agree with the adjudicators view of 
this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN74263302Mr B acquired his car under a Personal  Contract Purchase  a type of hire purchase  
agreement. The relevant  law says that the agreement  should not have been misrepresented.  
If it was then Harratts are responsible and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put 
this right.  
The purchase invoice  shows the amount still owed on the old agreement and the value of 
Mr Bs trade in vehicle.  The negative  equity can be calculated by subtracting those figures  
from each other. The total sum to be financed is also shown and this is the figure  thats 
included in the PCP agreement. Im not persuaded that the negative equity has been  added 
to the agreement. I think its most  likely its been included in the discount  of £5422.34 (inc 
VAT) thats detailed  on the invoice.
I dont think it would  be fair to conclude that because the GAP product appears to have been 
wrongly sold, the finance agreement was. These were two separate  agreements.  And whilst 
I understand that Mr Bs current vehicle is in negative equity Im not persuaded that is 
because the negative equity was included  in the finance. I dont  think thats likely to have 
been the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7426330