K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  acted irresponsibly when it gave him loans he 
says he couldnt  afford  to pay back.
background
This complaint is about five loans Myjar provided to Mr G between February 2016 and 
September 2017. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 12/02/2016 23/02/2016 1 £100.00 £108.80
2 23/02/2016 30/03/2016 3 £150.00 £76.36
3 30/03/2016 26/04/2016 1 £100.00 £121.60
4 26/04/2016 30/08/2016 6 £400.00 £121.60
*5 20/09/2017 - 3 £200.00 £106.96
Mr G said that he was in a debt spiral leading to repeat borrowing and that the loans werent 
affordable for him. He said that Myjar shouldve known he would have to borrow  further 
loans (often  from other payday lenders) in order to make the repayments. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He thought that Myjar shouldnt have lent loan 
4 to Mr G. He set out what  he thought Myjar should  do to put things right for Mr G. 
Mr G hasnt specifically said whether or not he accepts what the adjudicator  said  but hes 
sent in some bank  statements for me to look at.
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator and said the checks  it did were proportionate   and it 
wasnt certain that our adjudicator had looked at everything and didn't feel hed explained 
how hed come to his view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN70030662But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr G could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loans 1, 2, 3 and 5
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks  on Mr Gs credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans 1-3 shouldnt  have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information  gathered, including what Mr G said he was 
spending on other credit commitments. I agree that there isnt enough to say Myjar shouldnt  
have provided  these loans to Mr G. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think  the 
checks were enough  for Myjar to agree  to lend loans 1-3. 
And like the adjudicator, I think  the gap in lending between  loan 4 and loan 5 was long 
enough for Myjar reasonably to think that Mr G had put his finances in order as it would 
seem that he hadnt been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This 
meant that when his borrowing started  again,  and Mr G applied  for loan 5 in September  
2017, over a year after hed paid loan 4, he was effectively starting  over. 
Ref: DRN70030663So I think it was fair for Myjar to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his 
lending requests accordingly.  And given the amounts that Mr G needed to repay  wouldve 
seemed relatively  affordable compared  with the take home  pay hed declared, and what was 
apparent about  his circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Myjar to 
ask Mr G for the amount of information  that would  be needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable before  agreeing this loan. So Im not upholding  Mr Gs complaint about loan 5.
I havent seen  anything in the information Mr G has sent me in support of his complaint that 
makes me think Myjar shouldve realised loans  1-3 and loan 5 werent  likely  to be affordable 
for him and shouldnt  have been lent to him.
But I think that by loan 4, Myjar should  have realised that Mr G wasnt managing to repay his 
borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Myjar could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr G had struggled 
to repay  some previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 the same day that he repaid 
loan 1  and he borrowed half as much again
 
he took out loan 3 the same day that he paid loan 2 
he took out loan 4 the same day that he paid loan 3  and he was now borrowing 
significantly more money. Loan  4 was for four times the amount hed borrowed just 
two months or so earlier when he first asked Myjar  for a loan
it looks likely that Mr G had to borrow again each time because  he was facing money 
problems after repaying each  previous loan.  
In these circumstances, I think there  was a significant risk Mr G wouldve been unable  to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for loan 4.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back  before doing what  I have outlined 
below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.If there  is still an outstanding  balance on loan 5, then Myjar can use the amounts 
calculated in "A" and "B" to repay any balance remaining on this outstanding loan. If 
this results in a surplus then the surplus  should be paid to Mr G. However  if there is 
still an outstanding  balance then Myjar should  try to agree an affordable  repayment 
plan with Mr G.
Ref: DRN70030664D.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Gs credit  file for loan 4  and ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same  if Myjar sold this loan on. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 4. MYJAR Limited  
(Myjar) should take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7003066