K820x#14Complaint
Mrs J complains about instalment loans  Harvey & Thompson Limited (trading as H&T)  
provided to her. She says H&T unfairly provided her with unaffordable loans.
Background
As far as I can see, Mrs J was provided with four loans in total by H&T. The first loan, of 
£500, was provided  in April 2010.  The second  one, for £750 (which included  an amount to 
settle the outstanding  balance on the loan 1), was taken  in September 2010  and repaid in 
August 2011.  Mrs J then returned for a loan of £750 in December  2015,  before taking her 
final loan of, £1,977.34 (which included  an amount  to clear the outstanding balance on loan 
3), in July 2016.   
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs J and H&T had told us. And he thought that H&T 
hadnt treated  Mrs J unfairly.  So he didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. Mrs J disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide  Mrs Js complaint. 
H&T needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice,  what this means is that 
H&T needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending  
was sustainable  for Mrs J before providing  it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that H&T did 
treat Mrs J unfairly.  So Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint and Id like to explain why in a 
little more detail.
Mrs J took out a first loan for £500  in April 2010.  The loan was to be repaid over a period of 
12 months. Mrs J then applied for a second loan of £750 in September  2010,  which  included 
funds to settle loan 1, which was also due to be repaid in 12 months. 
After a break  of over four years,  Mrs J then returned for a loan of £750 in December 2015,  
which was due to be repaid in 8 months. And finally, in July 2016, Mrs J was then provided  
with a loan of, £1,977.34  (which included an amount to clear the outstanding balance on 
loan 3), this loan was due to be repaid in 29 months. Given  the four-year period where Mrs J 
Ref: DRN77688122didnt owe H&T any money,  I think its fair and reasonable for H&T not to have placed  too 
much weight on loans  1 and 2 when  deciding to provide loans 3 and 4.  
H&T says it agreed to Mrs Js applications  after shed provided details of her monthly  income 
and expenditure.  It says the information Mrs J provided on her income and expenditure 
showed that shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing  to. And 
for loans  3 and 4 additional information including  payslips and bank statements were taken 
in order to verify what was being  declared and that the payments were  affordable.  In H&Ts 
view, it was reasonable to lend in these  circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mrs J and H&T have said.  The first thing for me to say is 
that loans 1 and 2 were Mrs Js first with H&T and there was a long break  before Mrs J 
returned for loans  3 and 4. As this was the case,  I dont think  that there was an established 
pattern in Mrs Js borrowing needs  at the time of any of these applications.
The information provided does suggest that Mrs J was asked to provide details of her 
income and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount  of the monthly repayments, the 
questions H&T is likely  to have asked  Mrs J and these were Mrs Js first loans, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for H&T to rely on the information Mrs J provided for loans 1 and 2.
For loans 3 and 4, its clear that H&T took further steps to verify what  it was being told. I 
accept that Mrs Js actual  circumstances may well have been  worse than shed let on and 
they are unlikely to have  been reflected either  in the information she provided, or the other 
information H&T obtained. But H&T could only make its decision based  on the information it 
had available  at the respective times. And based  on this information I cant see that it was 
unreasonable to lend.   
Equally its only really fair for me to uphold a complaint where  I can safely  say a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that H&T did anything wrong in deciding  to 
lend to Mrs J - it carried out reasonable checks even though its looks  like the information  it 
mightve been provided with was inaccurate. Id also add that, given the circumstances  of 
some of them, H&T was wholly reliant on Mrs J volunteering information about some  of the 
arrears she had - such as her council  tax ones. 
H&T reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and the overall  circumstances of Mrs Js loan history,  I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for H&T to lend  especially as there wasnt anything  obvious, in the 
information it had, to suggest Mrs J wouldnt be able to sustainably  repay  loans 1 to 4.
Ive also considered the Mrs Js argument that she is being  required to repay more than 
double the amount she was lent for loan 4 and that this isnt allowed. But the limits Mrs J has 
referred to are for loans that are due to be substantially repaid in 12 months,  which are more  
commonly known as payday loans. Mrs J only has to pay just over twice  the amount she 
borrowed from loan 4. And crucially as it was due to be repaid over a term of nearly two and 
a half years, overall,  I dont think that this is wholly unfair or unreasonable.   
Overall and having thought about  everything, I dont  think that H&T treated Mrs J unfairly  or 
unreasonably when providing  her with these loans.  So Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs J. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell  at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
Ref: DRN77688123My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7768812