K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the changes to the bank  account he held with Santander UK Plc. 
background
Mr F took out a Santander 123 account in March 2016. He says he had a different 
Santander account which he was happy  with but was persuaded to change due to the 
amount of interest  he would earn on the 123 account. He was dismayed later that year when 
he became aware  the interest  rate on the account would reduce. Mr F says he was not 
warned about  this when he changed accounts. 
He complained to Santander and was told the change in interest rates was due to the market 
expectation that interest rates would  stay lower and increasing costs  caused by changes  in 
the banking industry.  It also said that the account  terms and conditions  allowed it to vary the 
interest rate. He was also told he could not return to his original account,  but he could move 
the account elsewhere.    
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service. The investigator confirmed with Santander that it 
was happy for us to look at the merits of the complaint.  He looked at the case and didnt 
uphold it. 
In summary  the investigator said
Santander had said it was changing  the rate because of the market  expectation  that 
interest rates will stay lower for longer and to manage  costs.  
From  what he could  see Santander were allowed  to vary the interest  rate under the 
terms of the account and that it had given  sufficient notice of the change.  
He felt that a consumer could reasonably foresee from the relevant terms that 
interest rates could  change at some  point if it was out of line with the rates available  
in the market place.
He was not convinced that the person at the branch would have  said the interest  rate 
could only go up, given that the terms and conditions made it clear that the interest 
rate is variable.  
Mr F did not agree, saying  he felt the Santander 123 account was now mis-leading, and that 
the name itself had led him to believe the interest  rate was fixed. He felt it was poor 
customer service  not to let him return to his original  account. However, he did say he would 
accept the outcome if Santander would give him his original account  back.  Santander said 
this wasnt possible.  And so, Mr F requested a decision.   
 
my findings. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has said that he wasnt told the interest rate could  go down, he was led to believe it 
would stay and the same, and the name  of the account at the time and at the time of the 
change supported this. 
Ref: DRN74372142Ive reviewed the paperwork associated with the account very carefully and I think its clear 
from the terms and conditions of the account  and the other point of sale literature that the 
interest rate on this account is variable, under certain circumstances. Santander has given a 
detailed explanation of why it reduced  the interest rate, based on the market conditions  and 
its expectations of what is likely  to happen in the future. Like the investigator, Im persuaded 
by this explanation for the change. And that the relevant terms of the policy  allow for this 
change. 
I also agree  that a consumer could reasonably foresee from the relevant terms that the 
interest rate could  change at some  point if it is not in line with the general rates available  in 
the market place
I understand that Mr F was disappointed when  the interest rate was reduced, and this made  
the change to the 123 account less beneficial  for him. But I am satisfied that the terms and 
conditions of the account allow Santander to make this change, and that as Mr F was free to 
move his account he was not unduly penalised  because of the change. 
I know Mr F feels that the name of the account is mis-leading, and again led him to believe 
the interest rate would not change.  However Santander have explained  that there were other 
benefits about the account, such as the cashback  on household bills payments that the 123 
referred to. As such I cant conclude that the name  of the account is inaccurate or that it 
suggested that the interest rate was fixed at 3%. 
However, as I said above, I think that the terms do make it clear that the interest rate is 
variable and indicate the circumstances  when the rate could change.  Like the investigator, I 
think its unlikely that the bank employee would have stated that the interest rate couldnt  go 
down, when the account terms and conditions meant that was a possibility. 
Ive also checked  with Santander  that the account Mr F had originally is no longer available, 
and hasnt been for some time, so I cant conclude that Santander should have allowed Mr F 
to return to that account when he complained. Nor can I ask them to arrange this now 
Ref: DRN74372143my final decision  
It is my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7437214