K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about pension advice he received from Zurich Assurance  Ltd in 1989.
background
Mr G took advice from Zurich (then  Allied Dunbar) in 1989.  He was advised  to set up a 
personal pension  plan (PPP), and then to transfer  benefits he held in a former employers 
section 32 buy-out plan into the PPP.
The funds were invested into a managed fund (60%), an equity fund (30%) and a far east 
fund (10%).
Mr G complained in 2018. In summary  he said:
The risks were  not explained,
The adviser acted  when there was a clear conflict of interest,
The costs and charges were  not explained,
The predicted returns were inflated,
There was undue  pressure on him to complete the application.
Zurich upheld the complaint in part. It rejected the complaint  about  the sale of the PPP but 
accepted that the transfer of the section 32 buy-out had exposed  that part of the fund to 
additional charges. It calculated  the additional charges that had been  paid and offered to 
refund this amount together with interest.
Mr G didnt accept and referred the complaint  to this service. An investigator  considered  the 
complaint but he didnt  think it should be upheld. He felt the offer Zurich had made was fair in 
all the circumstances.
As no agreement was reached  the case has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision addresses what I consider to be the most crucial aspects of the complaint. Ive 
read everything but not commented  directly on each and every  point that has been made. 
Ive focussed  on the factors  which I consider to be central to the complaint and at the heart  
of the issues.
I agree  with the investigator.  I dont uphold this complaint  and I consider the offer Zurich has 
made to be fair in all the circumstances.
At the outset I should reiterate what the adjudicator  has said. This advice was given in 1989. 
At that time the regulatory environment was very different to what  it is now.  I cant  apply 
todays standards  advice  given thirty  years.
Its also true that in 1989, investment conditions were different and expectations for future 
growth at that time would now, with the benefit of hindsight,  appear very optimistic.
Ref: DRN76865292The section 32 transfer
Ive not seen any evidence that suggests that any guaranteed benefits  provided by the 
section 32 scheme werent taken  into account  when the plan was transferred from the 
previous provider to Zurich in 1989.
The advice to start the PPP
Personal pensions  were introduced in 1988.  So this was a relatively early sale. A detailed 
fact-find wasnt completed,  although  this would  be standard practise  now,  it wasnt  a 
requirement in 1989. Mr Gs attitude  to risk was recorded as medium/balanced. As the 
investigator has said, its not clear how that assessment was made but equally  theres  
nothing to suggest that this was obviously wrong.  And the investments selected do broadly 
fit that profile.
I agree  with the investigator that there  would  be nothing  unusual in an advisor completing 
documentation providing that the customer was asked to sign it  as appears  to be the case  
here. 
The commission payments
Mr G has complained about the commission  payments  and suggested this created a conflict  
of interest for the adviser. As Ive said, the regulatory conditions were different  in 1989. 
Commission arrangements like these  were typical and certainly not prohibited or improper. 
Zurich has explained  that commission was not deducted directly from Mr Gs plan but was 
met by the generic charges paid on this and other  plans. The charges to Mr G would have 
been the same whether commission was paid or not.
Zurich accepts that Mr G has paid higher charges than he would  have if he had not 
transferred the section  32. But it has agreed  to refund the extra  charges  with interest. I think  
that is fair.
The projected returns
I can understand Mr G being  unhappy about  the fact that the returns  on his investment 
havent met the returns that were projected at the time. But I dont agree that he was 
deliberately misled. As the investigator has said, investment conditions  at the time meant 
that projections were  predicting future growth at rates as high as 15 per cent. We know now 
that those returns  didnt actually materialise, but they were  widely  used at the time of this 
advice. They were  only projections and not guarantees.
We cant know exactly what happened  thirty years ago but overall, Im not satisfied that the 
PPP and the investments  recommended were  obviously unsuitable or inappropriate for Mr 
G. Zurich has offered to refund the additional charges associated with the section 32 transfer 
and I think this is fair. I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to make any additional 
award.
 
Ref: DRN76865293my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I think the offer Zurich has made is fair. Mr G may wish to 
accept that offer now.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7686529