K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that due to Robson Financial Limiteds poor level of service  and failure  to 
respond to communications part of his pension  fund wasnt invested in accordance  with his 
wishes and was left in cash.  He considers hes financially worse  off as a result.
background
Mr B had an initial meeting with an adviser  from Robson Financial in September  2016.  
Discussions were about investing money  held in the cash fund within  Mr Bs SIPP (Self 
Invested Personal Pension). And also the potential transfer of a defined benefit pension  into 
the SIPP.
Mr B signed  a letter of authority allowing Robson Financial to obtain information  about Mr Bs 
existing plans. And following some further  exchanges of correspondence another  meeting 
was held on 21 December  2016.  
Robson Financial  subsequently e-mailed  Mr B on 8 February 2017. The e-mail  contained  
information about the potential transfer  including the possible costs and fees that could be 
involved. It went onto say:
Take some time to consider your options and of course if you have any questions please 
dont hesitate  to get in touch. 
In the meantime I can still continue with the investment advice and management within  the 
existing scheme.Following our discussions and the result of the Attitude to Investment 
questionnaire you completed I can attach  the model  portfolio that we would 
recommend.Hopefully this gives you some insight and is what  we offer within our ongoing 
1% fee. This fee does  not reduce for larger portfolios  (which  you may qualify  for going 
forward). The fee also covers ongoing  tax and financial  planning  advice in all areas.  If you 
wanted to go ahead  with this then I would look to construct a similar portfolio within  your 
existing plan. 
Please let me know if you have any questions. 
Mr B emailed Robson Financial on 27 April 2017. He said, amongst other things:
I still would like to ensure  that my SIPP is invested  aligned to my risk profile.
Mr B didnt get a reply  from Robson  Financial and chased it up in May 2017.
The adviser from Robson Financial replied by e-mail  to Mr B on 5 June 2017. He provided  
some information about the potential transfer  and went onto say:
If you would still like us to undertake this work  I am happy to do so for the fixed fee 
previously mentioned.
I also thought  it prudent to point out to you that your existing pension  is still invested as it 
was prior to our meetings.  Although you have granted us authority to gather information from 
your SIPP provider, we do not hold discretionary investment  powers, and as yet you have 
Ref: DRN71822592not given us instruction to act on your behalf as your advisers.I  mentioned the pension 
work and timescales  and also reiterated  our investment approaches and invited you to let 
me know if you would  like me to proceed with this work  which would require agreement to 
fees and written instruction.
Mr B has said that although  he received the e-mail  it went into his junk mailbox  and so he 
didnt see it.
I understand there was no further  contact  between Mr B and the firm about the matter until 
Mr B e-mailed them on 2 May 2018  asking for a valuation. Following a further  exchange of e-
mails and on finding  out that the money  Mr B wanted to switch was still in cash  he made a 
complaint. 
Robson Financial  didnt uphold the complaint  and it was subsequently referred  to us. One of 
our adjudicators looked into the mater. He noted  that no client  agreement  had been signed 
to allow  Robson  Financial to carry out the switch.  He thought  the firms e-mail dated 8 
February 2017 saying  it was still willing  to carry out the switch would have caused Mr B 
concern if he thought  he had already been switched out of cash. And the e-mail from the firm 
dated 5 June 2017 confirmed that Mr B was still in cash  albeit that it went  into his spam 
mailbox.
The adjudicators view was that the e-mail  was received by Mr B and as such Robson 
Financial couldnt  be held responsible for Mr B not replying to it for nearly a year. The 
adjudicator hadnt seen  any evidence  to suggest  that Mr B had signed a client agreement or 
made any payment  to Robson Financial for its services. Or that it had confirmed it would  
carry out any kind of transaction  on behalf  of Mr B. He also noted  that the annual  statements 
Mr B received from the pension provider showed the amount of cash  he held in his pension. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Therefore his complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. 
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Although M B hadnt specifically  signed a client agreement its clear  hed had meetings  with 
the firm and had signed forms allowing it to gather information on his behalf. Robson  
Financial had obtained information from the relevant third parties and I think  both parties 
understood it might act for Mr B in advising/arranging the transactions  that had been 
discussed. Im satisfied Mr B was a customer or potential  customer of Robson  Financial 
Limited.
Ive carefully considered  the chain of communications between  Mr B and the firm. On the 
one hand, I dont think Robson Financial  replied to Mr Bs e-mail of 27 April 2017 in a timely 
manner. And it didnt respond  to other  contact  from Mr B until after he had chased it. 
But on the other, I think Robson  Financials e-mail  to Mr B dated  8 February 2017 ought to 
have alerted him that at that point it hadnt made  any switches. Although  they may have 
been discussed, Ive seen  no persuasive  evidence that Mr B had actually instructed the firm 
to make any switches prior to this point. And I think the 27 April 2017 e-mail  shows  Mr Bs 
Ref: DRN71822593intent again, however it wasnt an instruction to switch; it didnt specifically set out the details 
of any switch, and it was something  he still would like to do - so it hadnt been  done  yet.
Robson Financials  email to Mr B dated 5 June  2017  made it clear it hadnt  carried  out the 
switch. I realise Mr B has said he didnt see that e-mail. However  given some  earlier  
correspondence had been by e-mail and seemingly without  problem, I think it was 
reasonable for the firm to use this method of communication.
Mr B didnt contact the firm about the matter again  until May 2018   almost a year later.  He 
would have received the annual statement for his SIPP showing the amount in cash, so 
ought to reasonably have been  aware how he was invested. 
I accept that Mr B may have been  busy with other  important commitments. And I understand 
his view that the firm ought to have contacted  him again when it didnt receive a reply to its 5 
June e-mail. However, I dont think it was unreasonable, in the circumstances, for Robson 
Financial to have assumed that its e-mail had been received by Mr B. It was only at the initial 
stages of the transaction and its relationship with Mr B. From its point of view Mr B wasnt 
yet a formal client.  Its not unusual for potential clients to change  their mind about  a 
transaction or choose to use another  adviser. So I dont think  it ought to have suspected Mr 
B hadnt received its e-mail. And Im not persuaded it was under an obligation to chase Mr B 
when it didnt receive a response to its e-mail. 
So overall, and taking everything  into account, although I dont think  the firm provided timely 
responses Im not persuaded this caused  the losses that Mr B has claimed.  I dont think it 
was reasonable  for Mr B to have automatically assumed the switch had taken place given 
the content of his exchanges with the firm. I think Mr B ought reasonably  have been  aware  
he was still in cash, and so gone  back to the firm earlier  if he wanted to move  his money to a 
different fund.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7182259