K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that on two occasions  money  was missing from his Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
account.
To settle  matters hed like his statements  to be corrected  and for the missing  money  to be 
paid to him.
background
Mr L has a current account  and savings account  with Barclays.  He says that in August 2017  
£100 went missing  from his account.  This issue was sorted but the same thing happened  
again in October  2018 when a further  £100 was missing.  Mr L thinks  this may be due to a 
system upgrade that Barclays told him about.
Mr L made many calls to Barclays about  this. However, Barclays  looked into his complaint 
but couldnt find any discrepancies with his accounts. Barclays explained that in mid- August 
2017 hed transferred £100 from his savings account to his current account  and this was why 
his balance was lower than he was expecting.
In further phone calls Barclays explained that a system upgrade wouldnt affect his account 
balances.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr L referred  his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She reviewed  Mr Ls account  
statements but she couldnt find any discrepancies.
Mr L has asked for an ombudsmans decision and he also complains that Barclays  failed  to 
reactivate his debit  card after saying this had been  done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done I dont think  Barclays  made 
an error here so Ill explain why.
The investigator explained that she couldnt find any discrepancies  with Mr Ls balances.  So 
she invited Mr L to provide more  information  about why he thinks money has gone  missing 
from his account. Mr L hasnt provided  any further information about  this. So Ill give my 
decision based on the information I have.
Mr L doesnt receive copies of his statements through the post and hes also told us he 
doesnt use internet  banking  either so Ive no doubt  it must  be harder for Mr L to keep  track  
of his bank account balances.
I can see that on 22 August 2017 Mr L transferred £100 from his savings account to his 
current account. This would explain why his savings account balance was £100 less than he 
was expecting. When he transferred £100  to his current  account part of this amount was 
used to repay a small overdrawn  balance. So his balance became £84.76.
Ive listened to the calls Mr L made to Barclays. I realise Mr L was very concerned  about  the 
missing money. But Im satisfied Barclays treated him fairly because  it went  through his 
Ref: DRN70366082transactions with him. And it also asked him if he thought  the transactions were fraudulent  
which he confirmed wasnt the case.
Ive looked at Mr Ls current account statement for October 2018. This shows  that Mr Ls 
opening balance  at the beginning  of October  2018  was £3,196.22. He made withdrawals 
during the month totalling £1220 and deposits  into the account totalling £1,362.80. This gave 
a closing balance  of £3,339.02. And I can see that this is the amount shown on his current 
account closing  balance at the end of October. So Im of the opinion  that its more  likely than 
not that there are no missing monies  particularly as Mr L has confirmed the transactions  
arent fraudulent.
Ive also checked  his savings account  statements for October 2018 and again these dont 
show any discrepancies  between the monies  paid into and taken out of the account during 
October 2018.
Barclays explained to Mr L that a system upgrade wouldnt affect  his account balances. And 
looking at Mr Ls statements for August 2017 and October 2018 theres nothing to suggest  
any money has gone missing  as the withdrawals  from and deposits to his accounts dont 
show any discrepancies.
For the reasons  Ive explained above I cant see that Barclays has done anything  wrong  and 
it doesnt seem likely that funds are missing from Mr Ls account. So I wont  be asking 
Barclays to do anything  further.
Mr L also complains about  problems he experienced when his card wouldnt work  due to 
Barclays being unable  to provide details of his PIN over the phone.  He also complains that 
Barclays didnt reactivate his debit card when it said it would do so. Unfortunately Im not 
able to consider  these  issues as these are new points that werent included  as part of Mr Ls 
original complaint to Barclays. If Mr L remains concerned about these problems Im afraid  
hell have  to complain  to Barclays first to give it the chance to investigate and respond.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7036608