K820x#14Complaint
Mr F, who is represented  by a claims management company (CMC), complains that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 in respect of mis-sold timeshare points.
Background
In August  2009  Mr and Mrs F bought  timeshare  points at a cost of £11,200 funded by a fixed  
sum loan taken out by Mr F. The loan was repaid on 15 November 2010.  
In May 2018  the CMC  made a claim under s 75. It said that Mr and Mrs F were  pressurised 
to sit through  a presentation with forceful sales representatives.  They  had been misled  and 
were told they could have more  than one holiday a year.  They found availability of 
accommodation to be an issue.  They had not been made aware of maintenance fees which  
had substantially increased, nor that their children would be liable for these after their death. 
 
The claim and subsequent complaint were rejected by Clydesdale which  issued a 
comprehensive rebuttal.  It said that Mr and Mrs F were given an adequate explanation of 
what they were buying and the CMC had provided  little evidence in support of its claims. It 
denied there  was an unfair relationship  between  it and Mr F and didnt accept there  had 
been undue  pressure placed on Mr and Mrs F. It also said the complaint had been made out 
of time.
The CMC brought  the complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said that the complaint could be 
considered by this service  as it fell within our time limits as set out in DISP 2.8.2(2). This 
says that we cannot look at a complaint if it has been referred to us more  than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of, - or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
She explained the event which gave rise to the complaint was the rejection of the s 75 claim 
and so the matter  was within our jurisdiction. 
She also addressed  a point made  by the bank that the debtor-creditor-supplier  chain  had 
bene broken as the payment had been  made  to an intermediary. She concluded the 
intermediary had been acting as a payment processor  and the required chain had not been 
broken.
However, she also reviewed the claim in the light of the Limitation Act and concluded that it 
was out of time. The CMC didnt agree and asked that the matter  be referred to an 
ombudsman. It said it would supply  a full substantive response,  but nothing  has been 
received. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79493192When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, the bank is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services 
for any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, you have  a like 
claim against Clydesdale just as you would have  against the supplier. So, if a claim against 
the supplier of the timeshare has likely  expired under  the Limitation Act, then that is 
something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. The CMC 
has said the timeshare  Mr and Mrs F bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr F would have six years  from the date upon which he suffered a 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring  his claim. 
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  to work 
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly  against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case,  given the nature of 
the complaint,  I think damage occurred when you suffered a financial loss as a result  of 
purchasing the timeshare.  Ill explain  why below.
 
The CMC says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation,  Mr F paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused  him to suffer a loss. It says that but for the misrepresentation, 
Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid any 
money to the supplier.
So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in April 2009.  Thats the moment when they accepted any potential benefit under the 
contract, and it was also the moment they accepted  the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr F 
needed to raise his claim no later than April 2015. As I understand it, he raised  his claim in 
May 2018, which is just over nine years after the loss occurred.
He may say that he wasnt  aware  he could raise  concerns about the misrepresentation until 
much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such  as his, start to run 
from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date he became aware that something  
might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
your complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement  if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power  to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
Ref: DRN79493193The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, consumers 
would have six years  from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the 
information I have,  the finance agreement ended in November 2010  so a s.140A claim 
needed to be raised no later than November 2016.  As I understand it, Mr F raised his claim 
in May 2018,  which is nearly eight years after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim you may have  against  the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that the misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more  than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would  not be unreasonable for Clydesdale  to take 
this into account  when considering your s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that the claim now is more than likely  time barred under the Limitation Act, I think  
Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 July 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7949319