K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wrongly  allowed his wife to withdraw money  
from their joint bond account.
background
Mr H had a joint bond account with his wife. When they separated, the account mandate was 
changed so that withdrawals could  only be made  with the signatures  of both account 
holders.
But Barclays  allowed  Mr Hs wife to withdraw the account balance  without his knowledge.
Barclays accepted  it had made a mistake, but said that the matter  was a civil dispute  
between Mr H and his wife. It considered  it appropriate for the monies to be settled  between  
them as part of their divorce. It offered £300 for the inconvenience caused  by its mistake, but 
it wasnt willing to refund the money that had been withdrawn.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He concluded it was 
more appropriate  for the money to be taken into account by a court as part of the divorce  
settlement. So he didnt think it was necessary for Barclays to refund the money.
The investigator considered that Barclays offer of £300 was fair and reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint  was passed to me. I 
wrote to Mr Hs representative and asked whether there had been any changes  in Mr Hs 
situation. I also asked  Mr H to give more detail on why he disagreed  with our investigator 
and what he wanted  to put things  right here. 
Mr Hs representative replied to say that they had never been given a reason as to why we 
are dismissing his complaint. So I will now reach a final decision here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts that it made  a mistake in allowing Mr Hs wife to withdraw the account 
balance without his knowledge. Mr H made  Barclays aware that he was in dispute with his 
wife, and took steps to protect the joint account.  The account mandate  was changed so that 
withdrawals couldnt  be made without both signatures. 
It seems  clear  to me that Barclays was on notice  of the dispute  between Mr H and his wife. 
That means it shouldve  taken care to make sure the account was maintained in the same 
position. But Barclays didnt do this.
So while Barclays has made  a mistake here, this doesnt necessarily mean  that itd be right 
for this service to recommend that Mr H should get the money that Mrs H withdrew back.
Ref: DRN74508662Barclays was told that Mr and Mrs H were  divorcing. So it considered allocation of the 
money as a matter  for the couple to resolve as part of the divorce settlement. Thats  a point I 
have to consider  here too. While I dont know the current position of the divorce proceedings, 
I know that they were  ongoing at the point of the complaint and I havent been  told that they 
have stopped, or been concluded. 
That means that ultimately,  I only know one side of the story here. So while  theres been a 
mistake, I think the entitlement to the funds  here is better addressed  as a part of the divorce  
proceedings. Were a dispute resolution service and my role here is limited to considering  
the circumstances of this individual complaint  from Mr H. But this was an account that was 
held jointly  and we dont have Mrs Hs consent  to consider the complaint. In the 
circumstances I dont  think  its very likely shed consent to us looking at this matter.
So by saying  that Mr H should get this money  back, Id be in effect deciding that hes entitled 
to it over Mrs H. But I dont know that. And this would be commenting  on something that, in 
my view, is better  addressed by a court,  given  what we know about the situation here. This 
wouldnt be appropriate in my view.
But, Barclays should acknowledge  this mistakes impact on Mr H. I think this will have clearly 
been upsetting and worrying  for him. Thats especially true where Mr H was proactive and 
tried to stop an issue like this happening.  So Barclays  should  compensate  him for that. Its 
offered £300 and I think thats a fair amount in the circumstances. It should pay that to him if 
it hasnt done  so already.
I realise this wont go as far as Mr H thinks it should  and that hell likely be disappointed  by 
this as an outcome.  But I hope he understands why I cant ask Barclays to do any more than 
its already offered here.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr H £300  to resolve his 
complaint, if it hasnt done so already.
  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7450866