K820x#14complaint
Miss S says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading at the time of the sale as Egg, mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit card, in 2001. She 
says she doesnt  ever remember asking for PPI and had no idea she had it. Miss S also said 
she didnt need  the cover and probably wasnt eligible  for it. She provided  numerous other 
reasons why the policy wasnt right for her.
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to CSOL  because its now responsible for the sale.
background
I can see one of our adjudicators has looked at this case comprehensively and said they 
didnt think Miss Ss complaint should be upheld.  They specifically said that they thought she 
was eligible for the policy  and they had also told her the pre-existing  medical  condition  she 
said shed been  suffering  from was actually from long after the sale.  So it wasnt  something 
that affected Miss Ss decision to buy the cover back in 2001.
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicator  and the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Miss S cant remember how the policy was sold to her. However,  it was a long time ago so I 
can understand that remembering  what happened isnt easy. CSOLs  computer  records say 
Miss S applied for a credit card on-line and bought the PPI during the same application 
process. 
Weve been asked to look at a number of very similar PPI sales  in relation to CSOL trading 
as Egg and as a result of this weve  obtained a lot of information about  how it normally  sold 
PPI over the internet. It isnt unusual that we dont  have access to the original paperwork 
after such  a long time, but we asked to see screen shots of the web-based  form that Miss 
S would have used  when  completing her application in 2001.  Ive looked at these images  
and they correspond with the many others that Ive seen. 
I think when she was completing her on-line  application,  Miss S would have been  given  two 
choices in relation  to the PPI. I think she would  have had to make a choice  before  being 
allowed to progress to the next stage of the form. Consumers were usually given two 
options - one choosing to buy PPI, the other choosing not to.
Theres no dispute she was sold PPI so I believe that Miss S selected the yes option  for the 
PPI to be added and I therefore think that she made an active  selection  to buy the policy.
Ref: DRN78786182In addition to this I think she would have been  sent a welcome  letter  about the PPI and I 
was sent an example of the type of letter that consumers were sent out. Again, this 
corresponds with many  similar sales Ive seen.
Finally, I can see from Miss Ss monthly credit card statements that she began to have 
charges on the card for credit card repayment protector. I think this strongly  shows  that she 
asked to have  the cover  and would have been able to see it had been added after her credit  
card application.  I think if she hadnt  ever asked for the PPI she would have wanted to know 
what these charges were  for.
So I think the evidence  shows  Miss S asked for the PPI policy  to be added.
This was an internet application and so I think Miss S wouldve made  her way through  the 
on-line process without any advice from CSOL. But it still needed to provide information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading so Miss S could make her own decision about  whether  or 
not to go ahead and buy the PPI.
I note that before making the on-line selection, the application web-page  contained brief 
details about the cost of the cover. I also think there was a link to view the policys  terms 
and conditions. I acknowledge CSOL  couldve possibly provided more information  at the 
point of sale, but I dont think this would have changed anything Miss S actually did.
This is because Ive looked at Miss Ss situation. I think she was eligible for the cover  and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types  of policy.  She told 
us that she was entitled to sickness cover and some  other  benefits  through her job. And she 
also said her family wouldve helped her, implying  the PPI wasnt  something she needed.
Ive thought carefully about these things  but this wasnt  an advised sale so the decision to 
buy PPI was Miss Ss. The PPI would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card 
balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim and this wouldve been  in addition  to any 
other means  she had at that time. And although  I certainly dont doubt her family may have 
wished to help,  their ability to do that would depend  on their finances over time. 
Ive also considered what shes said about  being  on maternity  leave that year, but I dont 
think the dates  are relevant to the sale. I think the PPI policy  was of use.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss S but the evidence shows she chose the policy and she would 
have seen it was in place. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint  and I dont require 
Canada Square  Operations Limited to do anything to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7878618