K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC trading  as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) wont 
refund disputed transactions made from her credit card.
background
Miss S says that fraudulent transactions totalling  £7,197.97 were made from her Barclaycard 
credit card between 20 December 2017 and 26 December 2017 in Sri Lanka.
Miss S contacted Barclaycard disputing these transactions. She said that the last time she 
used her credit card through  chip and PIN was on 15 November 2017. She explained that 
she couldnt have  made the disputed transactions, as she was unable  to travel to Sri Lanka 
during the period in which they happened. Miss S also explained  that during this period her 
credit card was always in her possession  within her purse. 
Barclaycard investigated and decided  not to refund the disputed transactions. They  said 
there was no evidence of fraudulent activity. They thought  Miss S had authorised the 
transactions because:
Miss S said that her credit card never  left her possession and that her PIN was only 
known to her.
However:
There was no evidence to suggest  that a clone of Miss Ss credit card was used to 
carry out the transactions;
There were  no declined  attempts  due to incorrect  PIN being entered;  and
So, whoever  used Miss Ss credit card mustve known the PIN and had access  to the 
card for it to be used.
Unhappy with Barclaycards decision, Miss S referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt uphold the complaint.  In broad summary, he felt unable  to 
conclude that the transactions had been  made fraudulently and was persuaded that Miss S 
likely authorised a third party to make  them. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators  findings,  so she asked for an ombudsman to 
consider her case.  She said she didnt give her credit card to a third party and maintained  
that it was with her (in the UK) when the disputed transactions were  made.
Miss S has since instructed solicitors to be her representative in this case. Theyve reiterated 
Miss Ss submissions  to our service and added  that the last time Miss S used her credit  card 
was at a pawnbroker on 15 November 2017.  They  say that Miss S suspects that her credit  
card mayve  been cloned at this time and that she mayve  been filmed whilst entering  her 
PIN.
Before an ombudsman considered the matter, the investigator sent Miss Ss solicitors  
Barclaycards evidence  showing  that the genuine  card was used to make the disputed 
transactions. The solicitors responded and re-iterated their position. They  provided  evidence 
that a third party who both Barclaycard and our investigator thought might have made  the 
transactions, had left Sri Lanka prior to some of them taking place.  They also questioned the 
Ref: DRN76809692correct functioning  of the merchants terminals and the ability of Barclaycard to identify non-
genuine transactions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it, for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Generally, Barclaycard can hold Miss S liable for the disputed  transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself.
Im satisfied by Barclaycards technical evidence that Miss Ss genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. Ive not seen evidence  to suggest that there were 
faults with either Barclaycards systems  nor those of the various merchants concerned.  But, 
the regulations  relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough  to enable 
Barclaycard to hold Miss S liable.  So, I also need  to think about  whether the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that Miss S consented to the transactions  being made.
I think it would be sensible if I first deal with the assertion that Miss Ss credit card mightve 
been cloned. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that this has happened in this case.  
Moreover, although its possible for cards to be cloned  its generally accepted  that there 
isnt any technology  that exists which can clone  the actual chip of a card.  The evidence in 
this case shows that all the disputed transactions were made by the chip of Miss Ss credit 
card being  read. For these reasons, Im not satisfied  that Miss Ss credit  card was cloned.
With this in mind, I think there  are three  main  possible  explanations as to how the disputed 
transactions were  made:
Miss S made them herself;
A third party took Miss Ss credit  card without her knowledge  and made them; or
Miss S authorised a third party to make them.
I will deal with each of these possibilities in turn below.
Miss S made the disputed  transactions
The disputed transactions took place in Sri Lanka  between 20 December 2017 and 
26 December 2017. Miss S has said she was in the United  Kingdom during this period. She 
has said that she wouldnt have  been  able to travel to Sri Lanka  at the time because she 
didnt have the necessary travel documents. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this 
is untrue  and Barclaycard themselves havent  disputed this. So, for these reasons, Im 
satisfied that Miss S didnt make the disputed transactions herself.
A third party  took Miss Ss credit  card without her knowledge
Miss S has maintained that her credit card was in her possession when the disputed 
transactions were  made. That is, it was in her purse  during this period.  
Ive carefully thought  about this. In doing so, I think its unlikely that someone  couldve taken 
Miss Ss credit card from her purse in the United  Kingdom, travel to Sri Lanka, use the card 
Ref: DRN76809693to make the disputed transactions,  return to the United Kingdom and then put the card back  
into Miss Ss purse  all done without her knowledge.  
To my mind,  it doesnt seem plausible that a third party   who effectively took the risk to 
steal Miss Ss credit card  would use it in another country  and then take a further risk by 
trying to return the card in the United Kingdom.  It seems more likely that such  a person 
would continue using  the card until they no longer could, and then discard it.
Miss S authorised a third party to make the disputed  transactions
As Im satisfied that Miss Ss credit card wasnt cloned; wasnt used  by her to make the 
disputed transactions;  or taken and used  by another without  her knowledge  to my mind, 
this only leaves one other possible  explanation. That is, Miss S authorised a third party to 
make the disputed transactions.
From the evidence Ive seen, all the disputed transactions that took place between  
20 December 2017 and 26 December 2017, involved the chip of Miss Ss credit card being 
read by various  merchants in Sri Lanka.
This means  Miss Ss genuine  card was used to make these transactions. So, Im persuaded 
that its more likely than not that Miss S provided her credit card to a third party.  Im 
particularly persuaded by the fact that  based  on the evidence available  there were no 
declined PIN attempts during the period of the disputed transactions.  To my mind,  this 
suggests that the third party knew Miss Ss PIN, which I think its likely she provided to the 
third party along  with her card.
In the investigators  findings, he, amongst other things, identified who he thought was the 
likely third party Miss S authorised to make the disputed transactions.  Ive considered this 
point and in doing so, I dont think its necessary  for me to make such  a finding. Im only 
required to determine  whether Miss S authorised another to make the disputed  transactions  
 not the actual identity of the third party.
So, taking all the above points together  I find, on balance, that Miss S authorised  a third 
party to make the disputed transactions. It follows that Barclaycard is entitled to hold her 
liable for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7680969