K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with how St Andrews  Insurance Plc has handled her claim for repairs 
following subsidence at her property.
For ease of reading, any reference to St Andrews  also includes its agents.
background
Mrs Ms property  was found to be suffering from subsidence a number of years  ago. In 
October 2018 St Andrews arranged for major  works to be completed which required Mrs M 
and her family to leave  their home for a few weeks. When  they returned,  Mrs M said that 
some of the repairs were  outstanding, others were not completed correctly,  and materials  
and rubbish had been  left in their home.  In addition, she said that there wasnt  kitchen and 
bathroom facilities available on the day they came back. She complained to St Andrews 
about this issue  and asked them to pay her for the loss of earnings  suffered as a result  of 
this ongoing matter.
St Andrews  agreed  that it had not done what it should have. It offered Mrs M £650 for the 
inconvenience caused, along with an additional  payment for an item broken  during the 
repairs. However, it didnt  agree to pay for the loss of earnings.
Unhappy with this response,  Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. This was reviewed  
by our investigator who initially didnt uphold the complaint, finding that the main works had 
been completed and that those that were left didnt relate to the initial subsidence  claim.  
After more information was provided  by both sides, it was found that some of the outstanding 
repairs were in fact related to the subsidence  claim and, as of August 2019, these had still 
not been fixed. Our investigator therefore  recommended that St Andrews fix these repairs, 
pay Mrs Ms loss of earnings from December 2018 and also increase  the compensation 
award by an additional £1000.
St Andrews  didnt agree with our investigator but did put forward  its own settlement offer. It 
said that it would consider  a claim for the loss of earnings suffered  by Mrs M. And it would 
also look at whether additional  compensation was due as a result  of this aspect of the 
complaint. But it didnt think a payment of £1000  for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs M 
from December 2018 (when it offered £650 for the problems from October 2018) was fair. It 
said it had already provided  an additional sum of £100 to her following a complaint 
considered in March  2019  and so it would agree to pay a further sum of £250.
Our investigator put St Andrews proposals  to Mrs M, but she rejected  the offer. She said 
she considered  the offer of £250 to be unacceptable.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important  to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service,  set up as a free 
alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused  on what I consider to be the 
heart of the matter  rather than commenting on every  issue  or point made in turn. This isnt 
Ref: DRN72217732intended as a discourtesy to Mrs M. Rather it reflects  the informal nature of our service, its 
remit and my role in it.
Everyone appears to be in agreement that the issues raised in the report  in May 2019 show  
repairs still needed to be completed that related to the subsidence claim and for the 
bathroom which, although St Andrews have said wasnt specifically  subsidence related, it 
had agreed to cover. Its clear that Mrs M and her family have been put through a lot of 
upheaval as a result of this claim and understandably they would like to be compensated for 
this. With any insurance claim there  is an element of inconvenience and, unfortunately with 
claims relating to subsidence, the time taken to deal with the matter  can be quite lengthy. 
That being  said,  I think Mrs M has had to deal with a number of ongoing problems which  
should have been resolved in a much  more timely manner. 
In relation to the complaint which was answered by St Andrews in December  2018,  Mrs M 
and her family came back to a home which had not been finished to a standard they 
expected. And they were put to even more inconvenience as a result of not having  the 
bathroom or kitchen  fitted. I can understand why this was frustrating for Mrs M, especially as 
no one had contacted her to let her know this wasnt the case. As there were still areas of 
the property which hadnt been  completed, such as the kitchen and bathroom, along with her 
home being left littered with materials and rubbish, I think it was right that St Andrews looked 
to compensate her. St Andrews offered Mrs M a sum of £650 for the poor workmanship, 
communication issues and delays.  I think this was a fair offer for what  had happened at that 
point.
Following on from that, St Andrews agreed  to complete those repairs that it felt related to the 
subsidence claim. I can see that more work  was scheduled to be finished  in January 2019, 
however, Mrs M was unhappy  with the quality  of the repairs. She made a further complaint 
about the ongoing delay  in February 2019. St Andrews provided an additional £100 in April 
2019 as compensation for the delay in completing these works. 
Another site visit took place  in May 2019 during which it was agreed that work was still 
outstanding. St Andrews  has said it agreed  to complete these works. St Andrews new offer 
of £250 is as compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mrs M and her family  as a 
result of this continued delay.
Ive thought about this matter very carefully and I can see why St Andrews may think  this 
offer is fair based on previous payments. And I understand  that there will inevitably be 
snagging issues which need to be rectified  following repairs so I wouldnt normally consider it 
fair to award compensation for such matters. But in Mrs Ms case  this has been ongoing for 
what I consider to be far too long. Mrs M and her family have been put through  a lot of 
inconvenience and stress, especially with Mrs M being  unable to work fully during this 
period. She has also told us that she felt her concerns were largely ignored or disregarded. 
And she has incurred  financial worries  during the course of this time period, including at one 
point being unable to meet her mortgage repayments and having  to make alternative 
arrangements so she didnt lose her home.  I think the longer this issue  has continued  it has 
caused greater  distress. Im not persuaded that an additional £250  is enough  here. 
The most important part of this complaint relates  to Mrs Ms loss of earnings. Mrs M looks  
after children  at home and therefore  it is vital that the property is safe. Mrs M has told us that 
the property failed an inspection by the relevant authorities which  was due to a complaint 
that was made  this was a direct  result of the work that was outstanding. Whilst she has 
been able to return to offering childcare services  for older children, this is limited to before 
Ref: DRN72217733and after school care.  She hasnt been  able to look after children that fall into the early  years 
category.
I think it is accepted  that dealing  with such an insurance claim may cause disruption to work 
commitments  often time off is required for inspections or to meet contractors  and so I 
wouldnt ordinarily agree it would  be necessary  to compensate for this. And the fact Mrs Ms 
place of work is also her home does mean that she would have to accept an additional level 
of disruption that I wouldnt  consider St Andrews to be responsible for. But Mrs M has been 
unable to commence  her full childminding services for quite  some  time as a direct result of 
the delays in completing the repairs on her property   which  have been ongoing for months 
and far beyond the initial timeframe set which was November 2018.  This is above and 
beyond what I would  consider general inconvenience and it has clearly impacted her 
livelihood. 
Mrs M has suffered financially as a result  of these lengthy delays and so St Andrews now 
needs to pay Mrs M for the loss of income she incurred until such time the property would be 
considered suitable by the local authorities  to enable her to recommence offering a full 
childminding service. St Andrews will understandably require evidence  of her income and 
Mrs M will need to provide these details  to it. I would ask St Andrews to act as quickly as 
possible to conclude this matter as she has clearly been without  this income for some time. 
Taking into account all that has happened over this period, and the distress that has been 
caused to Mrs M and her family, including the financial worries that this has brought  to them, 
I do think that the overall compensation figure  should be in excess of £250. Mrs M has 
continually had to point out issues with several areas of her home and has made numerous 
complaints to St Andrews in order to get these problems resolved. Mrs M has also suffered 
the embarrassment of having a complaint made  against her for failing  to provide a safe 
environment and then failed an inspection which no doubt has also impacted on her 
reputation as a childminder. This will have caused  additional distress. Considering  the 
repairs to her home should have been  completed  in early November 2018, Im satisfied that 
an additional  sum of £1000  for the upset caused  since that time is a reasonable figure. 
I contacted both parties to let them how I intended to resolve this complaint. St Andrews 
responded to say it agreed to paying  an additional £1000 in compensation but said that the 
loss of earnings issue had been  passed to its claims  team for investigation. It said it would 
require documentation  from Mrs M to assess this further. I dont think it is unreasonable  for 
St Andrews  to request evidence to substantiate the level of income  she has likely  lost as a 
result. 
Mrs M also replied. She commented that she was concerned St Andrews had said 
previously it was considering her loss of earnings claim but that didnt  make  it clear if it was 
the amount it was paying that was under consideration  or whether it thought no loss of 
earnings were due. She also stated that she felt the compensation amount of £1000  was 
inadequate  she referred to the financial impact which will stay on her credit file for years,  
along with the impact  to her health  as a result  of these delays.
I appreciate Mrs Ms comments about her loss of earnings. It wouldnt be fair for me to 
instruct St Andrews to pay an amount for her lost income without allowing it to seek 
evidence. But to be clear,  once documentation  has been provided which substantiates the 
amount Mrs M would usually expect  to have earned  during this time, St Andrews needs  to 
settle this claim. As I mentioned previously, I would ask that it resolves this aspect as quickly 
and as pragmatically as possible. 
Ref: DRN72217734Turning to the award, I do understand that Mrs M and her family have been placed under a 
lot of stress, both emotionally and financially as a result of this issue. And I have thought  
about that when deciding  on whether the sum recommended by our investigator was fair. 
When deciding on an appropriate level of compensation, I am looking into several factors;  
the period of any delays, the upset  that has been  caused and any detriment that may have 
had. Taking everything  into account  Im of the opinion that this sum of £1000,  in addition to 
the £750 Mrs M has already received from St Andrews, is fair compensation for what  has 
happened.
putting things right
 
St Andrews  needs  to do the following:
Upon receipt of suitable evidence from Mrs M of her expected  income during this 
period, St Andrews  should pay for her loss of earnings from December 2018  until 
such time as her home is considered suitable by the relevant authorities to enable 
her to recommence  offering her previous  full childminding services.  
Pay compensation of £1000 to Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, Im upholding this complaint.
St Andrews  Insurance plc must put things  right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before .
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7221773