K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2011, Mr T applied  for, and took out, a mortgage through  Countrywide  during a meeting. 
At the same he took Countrywides  advice to buy PPI to protect  his mortgage payments if 
he became unemployed. He paid for the policy by regular  premium.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr T disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here 
in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see Mr Ts main  complaint point  is that he says he was led to believe he had to 
have PPI if he wanted the mortgage. He suggests he felt pressured  into buying it.
Countrywides provided a copy  of a Keyfacts about this mortgage  document  produced for 
Mr T at the time. I can see here it set out the details of the mortgage Mr T was applying  for. 
And it also contained a section  titled  Insurance which  said: You  are not required  to buy 
any insurance through Countrywide. It also said that the only insurance required  as a 
condition of the mortgage was buildings insurance,  albeit  this didnt need to be bought  
through Countrywide. It didnt suggest PPI was compulsory or a condition of the mortgage.
I accept in an advised environment the adviser  most likely  would have  encouraged  Mr T to 
take out the cover  he was, after all, recommending it to him as something he might  find 
useful. But Ive not seen enough  evidence to say the adviser went  further than that and 
pressured Mr T into taking out the cover.
Mr T says the adviser also recommended life and critical  illness  cover, which  he declined. I 
take this as further evidence to support that he was likely made aware  he had a choice 
about taking PPI too and that, on balance, he wasnt placed under undue  pressure  overall. 
As this was an advised sale, among  other things, Countrywide had to ensure the policy was 
right for Mr T given  his needs and circumstances at the time. 
I can see the adviser  went  through some  questions with Mr T to understand his 
circumstances and this information is set out in a Mortgage Planner document. Here, 
information about Mr Ts job, existing means including  savings,  and his requirements for 
mortgage protection, scored in terms of priority, were recorded.
Ref: DRN71108272So it seems  that the adviser  took some  steps  to establish if PPI was suitable for Mr T. I 
accept its possible the adviser didnt take all reasonable steps but, in any event, I think  the 
policy was ultimately suitable for Mr T. I say this because:
he was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have  been caught  by the significant 
exclusions or limitations that applied to it.
Mr Ts told us he had some savings at the time. But these  would have quickly run 
out if he found himself  unemployed with a mortgage to pay. The PPI would have 
paid out regardless  of any savings and for up to 12 months  per claim. This would 
have allowed Mr T to protect  those savings to meet other ongoing household 
expenditure while he found  work. So I think he had a need for cover  and it would  
have helped him out financially  especially as it would have helped him protect 
his home.
 the cover  appears to have been affordable,  so its cost didnt make it unsuitable for 
him. And the PPI was flexible  to the extent  that Mr T could have cancelled  it at 
any time if he no longer wanted it.
Countrywide also had to give Mr T enough  clear information about the cover so he could 
decide for himself  whether to go ahead with the recommendation or not. In this case,  I 
accept its possible the adviser might  not have told Mr T everything he needed to know 
about the cover. But, for the same reasons I think the policy  was right for Mr T, I dont 
believe better information would have put him off buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr Ts lost out because of how Countrywide 
sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7110827