K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are the executors of the estate of a family member. They complain that 
Barclays Bank UK plc returned unpaid two cheques  issued to beneficiaries,  even though it 
paid six further  cheques issued in the same manner and on the same  day. 
background
Mr M was one of the executors of an estate of a family member, Mrs M being  the other. They 
opened an executors account  with Barclays. The estate was issued with a cheque book, 
and Mr M was to be the sole signatory. Barclays kept his signature on its files in the usual 
way.
In February 2019  the executors were in a position  to pay legacies under the will, and Mr M 
signed eight cheques, four each  for two different amounts. 
Six of the cheques  were paid, four of those  after the bank called Mr M to check  he had 
authorised the payments, but two werent. Barclays said it had tried to contact Mr M about 
those cheques as well, but hadnt been able to reach him. 
Mr M, on behalf  of the estate, sought  an explanation and an apology   in part at least  so he 
could demonstrate to the family  members  who should have received payment that he wasnt 
at fault.
Barclays however said it had done  nothing  wrong.  There were issues with the signature on 
the cheques, and it needed to check that they were  genuine. It had managed to contact Mr 
M about  some of the cheques, but not all of them. That was because they werent  all 
processed at the same  time, so different  people  would  have  been  making  the calls at 
different times. It explained that, if its unable to make contact with the customer in such 
circumstances, it wont keep trying; it said too that it only had one contact number on file.  
Mr M didnt  accept the banks explanation for what had happened and referred  the matter  to 
this service, on behalf of the estate. Our investigator was, however, broadly in agreement 
with what the bank had said. The executors didnt accept the investigators conclusions  and 
asked that an ombudsman review things  as the final stage in our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I should say first of all that I have some sympathy  for the executors,  and in particular for Mr 
M, who signed the cheques. It must have been  frustrating, and embarrassing, to find out that 
some beneficiaries had received their payments,  while others hadnt, even though  theyd all 
received the cheques. The problems here were not of the executors making. 
But what  I have to consider is whether the problems were the fault of Barclays and, if so, 
what, if anything,  it should  do to put things right. 
The cheques were  all for fairly  significant amounts, so its unsurprising  that some triggered 
additional checks. The bank says that those checks indicated a slight mis-match in the 
signature from that which the bank held on file. Ive looked  very carefully  at the signatures on 
Ref: DRN71493062all the cheques (both those that were paid and those that werent), and can see that there 
were slight  differences   but no more than I would consider normal. And the signatures on 
the cheques that werent paid differ no more than the signatures on the cheques that were 
paid. I can see then why Mr M thinks Barclays has been inconsistent. 
However, what the bank  was doing  here was managing the risk that cheques  had not in fact 
been drawn in accordance with the mandate. In fact they all had, but if that hadnt  been the 
case, Barclays would have had to reimburse the estate, having also paid the cheques. It was 
primarily for Barclays  to decide  how to manage  that risk. It did so here through  a 
combination of physical checks  and telephone calls to Mr M. Its unfortunate that not all the 
calls were successful, but its not really  for me to tell Barclays that it should then have made  
further attempts  to contact one or both executors. As I say, it was primarily for the bank to 
decide how to manage the risk that the cheques might not be genuine. I dont believe that 
the steps it took were unreasonable. 
As Ive said,  its unfortunate that two of the cheques were returned unpaid,  and that 
happened through no fault of the executors. But I dont  believe Barclays  acted unfairly either,  
for the reasons Ive explained.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
the estates complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mr M and Mrs M (on behalf  of the estate)  to accept or reject my decision before 
24 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7149306