K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2004.
The policy cost was £1.50 per £100  Mrs L owed on her store card. The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs L couldnt work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs L that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs L says she wasnt aware  that she had PPI on her 
account and so it was added without  her knowledge  or consent.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name  used by FICL for PPI. In 
this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. Mrs L has 
signed the section to confirm she wanted the cover. If Mrs L didnt want to take out the PPI 
she could have left this section blank. And Mrs L has signed the overall application form 
which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs L 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mrs L. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it 
gave Mrs L clear enough  information  about the policy to enable  her to decide  for herself  if 
she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs L 
Ref: DRN79820962was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
And it looks like this policy could  have been  of benefit to her. From what Mrs L has told us, 
she wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work and she didnt 
have any other means with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt earning. So by 
having this policy it could have given her reassurance  that her card payments would be met 
if something was to go wrong.
Ive thought about what Mrs L has said about being  able to ask her partner to help pay her 
store card if she wasnt working.  While  I appreciate her partner would  have wanted  to help, 
support from others cant be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also change,  meaning  
they are unable to provide such financial assistance. So this point doesnt change my 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7982096