K821x#15complaint
Mr A says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mr As credit  card account when he applied for the card by filling in a postal application.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  because 
Mr A said he was self-employed  when he took out the PPI our adjudicator thought  he 
would've found it particularly difficult to make  a successful unemployment claim on the 
policy. Our adjudicator  said this shouldve been brought to Mr As attention before he agreed 
to buy the policy.  As our adjudicator  couldnt  see that this had happened,  and didnt think 
that Mr A wouldve bought  the policy if AMEX had given  him clearer  information  about the 
policy terms, she recommended upholding the complaint.
AMEX disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that there  had been  some 
discrepancy in Mr As employment  details and it wanted to see some further clarification and 
details of his self employment.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
AMEX didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr A so it didnt  have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it still shouldve given  Mr A enough  information  to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for him. And if AMEX did do something wrong  when selling the policy, then 
I need to decide whether Mr A would  have done anything differently if AMEX  had done 
things properly.
Ive provisionally  decided to uphold Mr As complaint because:
on the credit card application  form that Mr A signed, he didnt indicate if he was 
employed or self-employed  those boxes are both left blank.  
Mr A did identify his employer at the time by filling in the employers name  on the 
application form - and hes consistently  told us that when he worked for this particular  
employer he was self-employed.
Ive seen some information that Mr A has sent me from a government  website  
showing that in the tax year when he took out the PPI he was self-employed  for 
45 weeks.
On balance, I feel I've seen enough  information for me fairly to say that its likely Mr A 
was self-employed  when  he applied for this PPI. 
Ref: DRN70050302For Mr A to be able to claim unemployment  benefits from the policy  he wouldve 
needed to cease trading because of the financial insolvency of his business  and he 
wouldve needed to inform the Inland  Revenue that was the case. So I think  Mr A 
wouldve found it significantly  more  difficult to claim unemployment  benefits  from the 
policy than an employed person. The significant benefits and limitations of the policy, 
including the terms under  which  a self-employed person  could claim unemployment  
benefits, ought to have  been made clear to Mr A before he decided to take out the 
policy.
On the basis of the evidence Ive seen, I am not persuaded  that the significant 
features and limitations of the policy were  made  clear to Mr A. I cant  see anywhere 
on the application where the terms relating to self-employed people  were highlighted 
or any other way that this information was communicated to Mr A before he agreed to 
take out PPI.  
If the unemployment terms for self-employed people  had been  made  clear  to Mr A, 
I think its unlikely that he wouldve  wanted to take out the policy, knowing that it was 
his choice whether  to have PPI and that hed be paying for some  benefits for which 
he was unlikely to be able to claim.
Overall, I currently consider that AMEX failed to provide  enough clear information  for Mr A to 
be able to decide if the PPI was right for him. And I think Mr A is now worse off as a result of 
this as hes paid for a policy  that I dont I think its likely  he wouldve agreed to take out if he 
had been properly informed.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr A hasnt sent me any further comments.   
AMEX has told me that it has nothing  further it wishes  to add to the information it has already 
sent us. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about  this case, I still think  its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right
AMEX should  put Mr A in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. 
I understand that the PPI has been  cancelled already so: 
AAMEX should  find out how much  Mr A would owe on his credit card account  if the policy 
hadnt been added (or how much he wouldve owed if the credit card has already been  
cancelled).
Ref: DRN70050303So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
AMEX should  then refund the difference between  what Mr A owes and what he would 
have owed or, if the credit card has already been cancelled,  AMEX should refund the 
difference between  what  Mr A owed when he closed his account and what  he would 
have owed if he hadnt had PPI, plus interest from the closure  date  the rate should be 
8% a year.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, AMEX  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
BIf  when AMEX works  out what Mr A would have  owed each  month without PPI Mr A 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, AMEX should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr A 
wouldve owed AMEX  something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C    AMEX  should  tell Mr A what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AMEX to take off tax from this interest.  AMEX  must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr A as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7005030