K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc wont refund money  that he transferred from his 
account to another Barclays account. 
background
Mr R arranged for some building work to be carried out by someone who Ill call Mr D. He 
made a payment of £920 from his account  at Barclays  to another  Barclays  account, in line 
with the instructions Mr D had given him. It appears however that Mr D didnt carry out the 
work as agreed, and Mr R started court  action  against him to recover  what hed paid. He 
obtained a County Court  judgment in April 2016.  
The judgment wasnt paid and in July 2017 Mr R sought to enforce it by obtaining a third 
party debt order against Barclays,  as (he thought) Mr Ds bank account  provider. That order  
required Barclays to pay any money  it held to the credit of Mr D (effectively, money  it owed 
him) to Mr R, up to a total of £1,400. (The debt had by then increased  because of interest, 
court fees and costs.)  That order wasnt effective, however, because by the time Mr R had 
obtained it, the money had been  removed from the account; in addition, the account name 
and number didnt  match. 
Mr R complained about the banks actions, but our adjudicator didnt think hed been treated 
unfairly. The bank  had processed  the payment to Mr D in line with Mr Rs instructions and, 
by the time it was made  aware of any issue between Mr R and Mr D, the money  had been  
removed from the account. Mr R didnt accept what the adjudicator  said and asked  that an 
ombudsman review the case.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did. 
Ill discuss first of all our powers to consider  Mr Rs complaint. At the time of the events 
leading to the complaint, this service could  consider  complaints  brought  by and arising from 
matters connected  with the complainant  being a customer of a bank. But we couldnt 
consider a complaint about a bank receiving money  where that complaint was brought by the 
person who had sent the money  to it. Our rules have since been changed so that we can 
now consider some  complaints made by a sender of money about the receiving  bank. 
In this case Mr R, as the sender of money, was Barclays customer. But, although the money 
was being sent to another Barclays customer,  I take the view that its actions were sufficiently 
closely linked to Mr Rs relationship as a customer that I can consider them.  Im not limited to 
looking at what the bank did in sending the money;  I can look at what  it did in receiving it as 
well. 
Ill deal first with what Barclays did when it sent the money. It sent the money to the account 
Mr R asked it to send  the money to, identified by sort code  and account  number.  Those 
details were given  to Mr R by Mr D, and to Barclays by Mr R. 
Banks, when sending funds, should tell customers that payments will be applied  by 
reference to sort code  and account number  only. Its not clear if Barclays  did that here, but it 
Ref: DRN74661292would have prompted Mr R to do no more than check the account details hed been given. 
Had he done that, its likely he would have sent the money to the same account.  
In receiving the money, Barclays had no specific duty to Mr R to do anything other than 
apply it in line with his instructions. It didnt need to check, for example, that the account 
name matched the name on his payment instructions  which  was primarily for his own 
reference. The account was not, in fact, in Mr Ds name; but he might have directed 
customers to pay money  to a different account, for perfectly legitimate reasons. 
Barclays wasnt aware of any problem until some time later.  Im satisfied that, by the time it 
was, there  was no prospect of recovering any money for Mr R. 
As Ive explained in the background, the court order Mr R obtained wasnt  successful in 
recovering money from the account  to which hed sent the money. In part, thats  because  the 
account wasnt Mr Ds, so any money in it wasnt a debt that Barclays  owed to him. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained, the bank wasnt obliged to tell Mr R that. Its unfortunate that Mr 
R sought an order in respect of an account  that wasnt in Mr Ds name,  but the responsibility 
for that lies with Mr D, not with Barclays. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont require  Barclays Bank UK 
plc to do anything  further to resolve  Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R accept or reject my decision 
before 8 November  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7466129