K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the service she received from RAC  Insurance  Limited when she 
broke down  in France, and that her van was damaged while being repatriated to the UK.
background
Mrs D has European breakdown cover, provided  by RAC, as an add-on to her motor 
insurance policy. On 4 March 2019 her van broke down  on a French  motorway.  
Mrs D contacted RAC for assistance. As only approved French  motorway rescue services 
can recover vehicles from a motorway Mrs D was given the number to allow  her to call the 
relevant service. 
Mrs D is unhappy that she was left alone  in her van for some hours before the recovery 
vehicle arrived, and in this time no one from RAC  called to check  on her. Shes  also unhappy 
about the service  she received from RAC while she remained in France,  the arrangements 
they made regarding  her return  to the UK, the delay in repatriating her van and the poor 
condition of the van when it finally arrived back in the UK
Once Mrs Ds van had been recovered  from the motorway, she called RAC and they 
arranged for it to be taken  to a local garage. Shes  unhappy  that she had to call RAC, rather 
than them contacting her. By the time the van was off the motorway it was late so RAC 
arranged a hotel  for Mrs D. During her conversation with RAC  she was asked  whether  shed  
like them to arrange  for the hotel to prepare a salad for her as the restaurant was closing. 
She agreed  to this but is unhappy that she wasnt told shed be charged for the salad.
Mrs Ds van was assessed at the local garage  the following  day and Mrs D was quoted  over 
2,000 Euros for repairs. She only wanted the minimum amount of work done  to make the 
van roadworthy, as she said could arrange  the repairs for far less in the UK. But the garage 
told RAC there was substantial damage  to the van and a partial repair wasnt  possible. So 
Mrs D told RAC she wanted the van repatriated. 
RAC booked  Mrs D a train to Calais. When she arrived in Calais, she took a taxi to the port. 
Shes unhappy that RAC hadnt  arranged this for her. RAC have said they were waiting for 
Mrs D to ring them  to confirm shed arrived so they could book her a taxi. Mrs D paid for her 
ferry crossing. She asked  RAC to book  her an hotel in Dover, for one night, and this was 
arranged for her, but she paid for it. From Dover  Mrs D made her own travel arrangements  
for her onward journey  home. Shes not happy as she feels she was abandoned by RAC  in 
Calais. RAC have agreed to cover her travel  expenses  for her onward journey, subject to 
production of receipts.
The repatriation of Mrs Ds van was authorised on 8 March 2019, but it wasnt  delivered to 
her until 1 April 2019.  RAC  say the delay was caused by industrial action at the port in Calais  
which started on 4 March 2019.  Mrs D doesnt  accept  the delay was caused by industrial 
action. She believes  that RAC were responsible for the delay.
When Mrs Ds van was delivered  to her it was badly  damaged and was written off by her 
insurers. Mrs D believes that the damage occurred during the repatriation and is therefore 
the responsibility of RAC. RAC say the van was collected by their agents from the garage in 
France, in the condition  it was delivered to her in, and theyre not responsible for any 
damage caused by the garage, who werent  acting  as their agents.
Ref: DRN79832972Mrs D complained to RAC about the following: -
The level of customer service she received
That shed had to make her own travel  arrangements  to the port in Calais  and for her 
onward journey home
The cost of the salad RAC ordered  for her on 4 March 2019
The delay in repatriating her van
The damage cause  to her van during the repatriation process
RAC didnt  uphold Mrs Ds complaint. They  said they couldnt make  any arrangements until 
the van was recovered from the motorway. Once this was done and Mrs D notified  them,  
they arranged  for the van to be taken to a garage  and overnight accommodation for her. 
Theyd asked her if she wanted  them to get the hotel to prepare  a salad for her as it was 
late, and the restaurant was closing. But she should have been aware that her policy didnt 
cover the cost of food,  and they never agreed to pay for this.
They arranged a train for Mrs D to Calais and had she called them  when she arrived,  theyd 
have arranged a taxi for her to the port. They booked her a hotel in Dover, as she requested, 
and later agreed to refund  her further travel costs  on production of receipts.
They didnt accept  they were responsible for the delay in the van being  repatriated as this 
was due to industrial action at the port in Calais. They  dont accept any responsibility for 
damage caused while her van was at the garage  in France, and say it was delivered  to her 
in the same condition  it was collected  from the garage.
Mrs D was unhappy with the response received from RAC and complained to our service. 
Our investigator considered the case  and didnt recommend Mrs Ds complaint be upheld.  
He said that the damage to Mrs Ds van was probably the most  important of the issues  shed 
raised. And while her policy stated  that RAC couldnt be held responsible for damage caused  
to the van during the recovery, the actual term was very broad, and this is something  we 
dont normally consider to be fair.  So, he didnt think RAC could simply rely on the policy  
terms to absolve  themselves of liability. 
He said there wasnt any evidence to suggest  the van had been damaged while  being 
recovered from the motorway. So, what he had to consider  was when did the damage occur  
and who caused  it. If the repairing garage  was responsible for the damage,  he didnt  think  
RAC could  fairly be held liable. As once  the van was delivered  to them  Mrs D was largely in 
control of what happened, as no repairs could be carried  out without her agreement. He felt 
RACs potential liability started  when they instructed  recovery agents to collect  and repatriate 
the van. 
But he wasnt convinced the evidence showed  theyd caused  the damage. He said the agent  
who picked up the van for repatriation confirmed  there was damage to the van and its 
condition was described as below average.  And there were photos  of the van taken before 
collection, and after delivery to Mrs D, which showed the same damage.  He accepted the 
damage was unlikely to have  been caused  by the repatriation agent, so he felt RAC couldnt  
be held responsible for it. 
When the van was delivered to Mrs D the detached wheel was missing, but our investigator 
thought this might have  been disposed of by the garage and he didnt think  it was significant, 
in monetary terms, when  the van was already a write-off.
Ref: DRN79832973Our investigator accepted that the breakdown and the aftermath would have  been  very 
stressful for Mrs D, and he acknowledged that she felt let down as RAC didnt call her to see 
how she was. But he said they had texted her at 19.03 to advise her to contact the French  
emergency services, and by 20.55 a taxi had been arranged, and a hotel booked shortly 
after that. Although  he agreed this may have seemed a very long time to Mrs D, he thought 
the time scale wasnt unreasonable for a UK based  company making  arrangements in 
France.
It was originally estimated  that Mrs Ds van would be returned to her on 25 March 2019, but 
it arrived on 1 April 2019. Our investigator didnt think  this was unreasonable given the 
significant ongoing disruption  at French ports at the time.
He also considered Mrs Ds outstanding  expenses  which related to her taxi fare to the port in 
Calais; the ferry fare from Calais to Dover; the cost of an overnight hotel in Dover  and her 
train fare home from Dover. RAC had agreed to refund these, subject  to production  of 
receipts, which Mrs D hadnt kept. He said the policy made it clear all expenses  had to be 
substantiated, although he felt some  proof  of payment was all that should be required.  But in 
the absence of this he didnt feel he could  ask RAC  to cover these expenses. 
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators opinion that the repatriation agent  hadnt caused the 
damage to her van. She believes  the damage  was caused when the van, which was missing  
its rear nearside wheel, was winched onto the back of the recovery  vehicle. She said RAC 
told her theyd cover her expenses travelling  home,  so she didnt realise she needed to keep  
her receipts. And although she accepts a breakdown was always  going to be stressful,  it was 
the actions of RAC, their failure to update her and make the necessary  arrangements  for her 
journey home, that made this a particularly difficult experience. 
She also said that her van shouldnt  have been moved before the inspection  report was 
completed, so the report was invalid. She provided  a copy of a call shed made to the 
recovery agents in support  of this. And she said she was £444 out of pocket as shed had to 
pay her policy excess  of £350, and £94 for travelling expenses.
Our investigator reviewed  the case again having considered Mrs Ds further comments but 
didnt change his opinion. He said that while  Mrs D believed the damage to her van was 
caused when  it was being loaded  onto the truck, there was no clear evidence that this was 
the case. Hed listened to the call she made to the company who collected  and transported  
the van, and all they agreed was that photographs of the van were taken after it was loaded. 
There was still no evidence of how it was loaded, or the condition  it was in before loading. 
He also made the point  that the van was on three  wheels, in the garage for a month,  and its 
likely it would have been moved in this time.  
He also considered Mrs Ds further comments about  her expenses and said that although  he 
appreciated, she felt abandoned by RAC in Calais, it wasnt unreasonable  for her to cover 
her expenses from there, and for these to be refunded later.  He wouldnt expect RAC to 
cover these expenses without proof of payment. And he said RAC  had paid Mrs D £250 
towards her expenses in the UK due to the delay in repatriation, which werent strictly  
covered by the policy, so he felt shed recovered some of her expenses.
Since our investigator considered the case,  weve asked RAC whether they had any further 
evidence of the condition of the van when it was collected, and how it was loaded onto the 
recovery truck. Theyve told us the following: -
Ref: DRN79832974The vehicle was loaded with a slide bed and was transferred from the slide bed on to our 
truck by being winched across from one to the other.  On arrival at  we placed a skate  
under the already flattened stub axle and damaged  rear bumper and unloaded,  then when it 
was loaded for onward delivery to the final destination, as you will see from the various 
pictures the axle and bumper  were already damaged prior to loading  on to the .truck. 
Weve also asked Mrs Ds insurers, who wrote off the van, for details of the damage,  and 
theyve provided  a copy of their engineers  report. This details the following damage: -
Rear door  back bumper is dented, back panel is really  dented,  bumper is dented 
and hanging  off.
NSR  scratched.
NSF door  cant open door, can see inside, scratched, dented  and alignment 
jammed into van.
Frontal  number  plate is hanging  off, bumper  is dented and hanging off.
Vehicle immobile  -wheel missing,  cant open  door.
NS side  scratched.
Wheel damage  wheel is missing  axle snapped.
As Mrs D didnt  accept our investigators opinion the case  has come  to me for a decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue of Mrs Ds complaint is the damage to her van. I intend to deal with the 
other elements of her complaint first and then go on to consider the damage.  
I appreciate that Mrs D felt vulnerable when her van broke down at night on a French  
motorway, and that it seemed she was there  alone for a long time.  When she rang RAC  they 
directed her to the authorised recovery agents. At that point the recovery was out of their 
hands until Mrs D was off the motorway. While I accept that shed have liked them to keep in 
touch, once she notified them her van had been recovered from the motorway, 
arrangements were made quite quickly. So overall,  I dont think  I can say RAC did anything  
wrong.
Mrs Ds policy clearly sets out what it doesnt  cover  and that includes the cost of food. As it 
was late when Mrs Ds hotel was booked,  RAC arranged, with her agreement for the hotel to 
make her a salad. I accept that she wasnt told shed have to pay for this, but her policy 
makes it clear that the cost of food isnt covered. I think  RAC were just trying to ensure 
Mrs D had something to eat, and as shes told us this was all she had to eat, due to her 
rushed journey the following day, I dont think RAC  need to refund the money  she paid for 
the salad.
Its clear that Mrs Ds journey home didnt go as smoothly as she would have liked,  and she 
had to make  some of her own arrangements. RAC  have said they were waiting for Mrs D to 
confirm shed arrived in Calais  so they could  arrange a taxi to take her to the ferry terminal, 
which seems perfectly reasonable. I can see she requested an overnight stay was booked  
for her in Dover, and RAC arranged  this. She then made her own arrangements  to complete 
her journey  home, and RAC confirmed theyd refund her expenses  subject to sight of 
Ref: DRN79832975receipts. And its quite  usual for a policyholder  to have  to cover certain expenses and then 
reclaim these later.
Its a standard  term of most insurance  policies that expenses  will only be refunded with proof 
of payment,  and I think Mrs D should  have realised she needed to keep her receipts. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for RAC to need  to see these before refunding the 
outstanding expenses. 
I accept that RAC could  have kept Mrs D updated  a bit more,  but at the same time she could 
also have contacted them.
Mrs D was told her van was due to be delivered  to her on 25 March  2019. But it arrived on
1 April 2019, as RAC  say it was delayed due to industrial  action  in the northern French ports. 
The industrial action  in France in the run-up  to the original date for the UK to leave  the EU 
on 29 March 2019, was well publicised. It involved French customs workers and officers 
working-to-rule, carrying out longer and more  rigorous  checks,  which caused chaos and long 
delays at Calais, and other ports. Against this background I cant  hold RAC responsible for 
the short delay  in repatriating Mrs Ds van.  
Turning now to the damage  to Mrs Ds van. Ive seen the photographs  shes  provided  of the 
van before  the breakdown in France. From these  it appears the bodywork was in good 
condition, given the vehicles age. And its apparent from the later photographs  that the van 
was returned to her in a poor condition.  Ive set out above the damage noted by the engineer 
who inspected the van on behalf of Mrs Ds insurers.
Mrs D was with the van when it was being recovered from the motorway  and taken  to the 
garage. Shes happy that it was delivered to the garage in the condition  it was in when it 
broke down.  So, I dont need  to consider this part of its journey any further.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ds policy say RAC  cant be held responsible  for any 
damage occurring  during  the recovery. The policy says: -
We are not responsible and cannot accept  a claim for Losses resulting from delays, acts 
or failures  of someone other than us, for example, a garage, hotel, car hire company or 
carrier (when we instruct a garage, hotel, car hire company or other similar company, we do 
not accept liability  for their acts or failures and it should not be interpreted  that they are 
acting as agents for us.
This is a very wide term and I dont accept that it absolves RAC from liability  for damage 
caused by agents theyve  instructed.
Mrs Ds policy covered  her for transporting her van to the nearest garage, if the van couldnt 
be repaired  at the roadside, and a contribution towards labour  charges, but not the cost of 
parts, and only when  this enabled her to continue her journey  the same  day. Although RAC 
chose the garage, once it was there, Mrs D was responsible for arranging the repairs. I dont 
think I can say RAC  took away Mrs Ds choice, as the policy provides for the vehicle to be 
taken to the nearest garage, which is what happened. And once the van was at the garage  it 
was out of RACs control, so I cant hold them responsible for any damage that occurred 
there. But RAC directly  instructed the recovery agents who collected Mrs Ds van and 
transported it back  to the UK, so RAC would be responsible for any damage they caused.
Ref: DRN79832976Repatriation of Mrs Ds van was agreed  by RAC  on 8 March  2019. But it wasnt  collected 
from the garage until the end of March, and it had been there since 5 March  2019. The 
garage had removed the rear nearside  wheel when  preparing  their estimate, and the van 
was still on three wheels when collected  by the recovery  agents.  
Mrs D thinks its suspicious that photographs of the van werent taken  until it was on the 
back of the recovery  vehicle. She thinks this proves  the damage was caused when the van 
was being loaded. But I dont agree. The recovery agents have provided details of how the 
van was loaded. I have  no reason  to doubt  that this information is correct. And based on this 
I dont see how this damage could have been  caused during loading onto the back  of the 
recovery vehicle. The van had been  at the garage for almost four weeks,  and looking at the 
damage, I think the scratches and dents  noted,  and shown clearly  in the photographs, are 
more likely to have  been caused  by it being moved  around carelessly within  the garage,  
rather than when it was being loaded.
Mrs D reported the cause of the breakdown to be a blown rear nearside wheel bearing. The 
garage which inspected  the van the day after the breakdown and said they needed  to 
replace the hubs, bearings, disc pads,  one rim, 2 tyres and a brake calliper. The estimate for 
this work  was 2,048 Euros, which Mrs D said she couldnt afford. Mrs Ds insurers have said 
the damage was enough  to write off the van. 
So, we know  there was fairly extensive damage around the rear nearside wheel. We also 
know that the garage removed the wheel to carry out their inspection,  and that the wheel 
was still missing when  the van was collected.  This means that while the van was in the 
garage it was on three wheels. Ive said I think it the damage to the vans  bodywork is likely 
to have been caused when it was being  moved around while at the garage.  And I think, on 
balance, with a missing wheel, and given  the damage caused by the blown  wheel bearing,  
its more likely than not that the damage to the axle was caused in the same  way. And the 
information provided by the recovery agents,  about  how the van was loaded, notes a 
flattened stub axle,  and damaged rear bumper.
The description of the damage to the front bumper and number  plate, noted  by the insurers 
engineer doesnt appear to be consistent with the photographs the insurers have provided. 
The photographs show the bumper to be scuffed, theres  some  damage which could  be 
caused by stone chips, and the number plate, although still in place,  is at a slight  angle. But 
this isnt the same as number plate is hanging off, bumper is dented and hanging  off. And 
apart from the angle of the number  plate, the front bumper appears to be in the same 
condition, when inspected, as it was when it was collected in France.  
While I accept there may have been damage  to the front bumper which  isnt obvious from 
the photographs, I dont think I have any evidence which allows  me to conclude that the 
recovery agents caused any damage to the front of the van. Simply needing to straighten  the 
number plate, which may have been  loose and moved during transit,  isnt evidence  that the 
recovery agent caused any damage.
I understand that Mrs D believes  very strongly that her van was damaged while  being  
repatriated. But based on the evidence Im not persuaded that this was the case. I think  its 
more likely it was damaged while it was in the garage in France, waiting to be collected.
Mrs D also complains that a wheel was missing  when  the van arrived  in the UK and the 
spare wheel was on the front passenger seat, which needed  to be cleaned.  The wheel was 
removed for the repair estimate to be prepared, it appears to have been missing when the 
Ref: DRN79832977van was collected.  Given the damage  to the wheel, I think  its likely this was disposed of by 
the garage. The photographs show the spare wheel on the passenger seat when  the van 
was loaded. I cant say, with any certainty, that it was placed  there  by the recovery  agents, 
so I cant say that RAC should pay for the cost of cleaning. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Ds complaint 
against RAC Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7983297