K820x#14complaint
Ms F is unhappy that Zenith  Insurance plc avoided her car insurance policy  (which  means  
they cancelled  it as though it had never existed)  when she attempted to make a claim.  And 
shes unhappy they havent  covered the claim.  
Ms F is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all actions and comments  as 
being those of Ms F. 
background
Ms F took out a car insurance policy with Zenith which she applied for through  a comparison 
website. She had a collision in May 2017  and wanted  to claim on her policy.  
Ms F owned one property  where she was registered  on the electoral role and paid council 
tax (address one). Ms F said she also rented this out to students in term time. When  
reporting the collision she initially gave  this as her address. But she then said she lived at 
her mothers  address (address two) as she was her carer. This is the address that was on 
the policy. She provided a driving  licence,  vehicle log book  and bank statement showing 
address two on them. 
Zenith said theyd offered  Ms F a policy based on incorrect information, as they believed  the 
evidence suggested  she lived at address one. They said they wouldnt have insured her 
had they known she was living at that address. So they told her they were avoiding  the 
policy and refunding the premium. This meant they wouldnt assess the claim shed made as 
she didnt have a policy. 
Ms F wasnt happy, so she complained to Zenith. Zenith thought  there was evidence  that 
Ms F had manipulated the answers given when  applying for the policy to get cheaper 
insurance. Zenith said that the comparison website Ms F bought her insurance  through  had 
shown shed got a variety  of quotes switching between address one and address two. 
They say she also changed  a number of other answers too. 
Ms F maintained that she didnt misrepresent her address so she brought  her complaint to 
our service.  Our investigator didnt think that Zenith  hadnt done anything  wrong. They  felt 
there was compelling  evidence that Ms F had misrepresented  her address to obtain  cheaper 
insurance, so felt it was fair and reasonable for Zenith to avoid Ms Fs policy. Ms F didnt 
agree, so its come to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am not upholding Ms Fs complaint and 
Ill explain  why. 
When buying her policy  Ms F had a responsibility  under the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And for Zenith to take any action at all they need  to show  Ms F didnt do 
this and that she made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Its not in dispute  that Ms F stays at both addresses. Like many  insurance forms, this didnt 
include an option to provide a secondary address so Ms F would be expected to enter her 
Ref: DRN74054152main address where the car was kept most  of the time. So my key consideration is to 
determine where I think it is most likely  Ms F stores her car for the majority  of the time as this 
is the address  Zenith would consider the risk address. I appreciate there  is no evidence to 
conclusively show which address this was. Ive had to think  whether Zenith have provided 
sufficient information  to show it would be fair and reasonable to say, on balance, that the 
primary address where Ms F kept her car was address one rather than address two. 
Theres evidence that links Ms F to both properties, as Ive already outlined. But I think it was 
fair for Zenith to find her primary address  was address one. While theres evidence that she 
spent time with and cared for her mother,  such as the fact her mother  was in the vehicle  
when the accident took place, this hasnt been enough to convince me she lives at address 
two the majority of the time. Particularly  as shes on the electoral roll and pays council tax at 
address one. 
Ms F provided  evidence  shes been having  students  staying  at address one. It appears they 
stay for short  periods  of time when visiting from abroad to study.  From reviewing the 
documentation and a linked website, Ive seen  the students would stay with hosts such  as 
Ms F when they opt for a home stay through a local college. There  was one student coming 
at the end of April so it is likely they were  staying with Ms F at the time of the crash. 
However, from reviewing the website  of the college group  it is clear  that students  staying 
with host families are told they can expect to spend time and eat meals with their hosts, and 
spend time having discussions with them to assist with their English language skills. I 
appreciate Ms F has told me that after settling in theyd also spend  time with their peers  and 
I dont doubt this. But on balance I do still think the students living there actually supports, 
though doesnt conclusively prove, that she lived at address one.
Ms F rightly pointed  out that in some correspondence Zenith said she lived at address  one 
three days per week, and address two four days per week.  I have considered this and 
believe this isnt Zeniths position when  taking account of their decision,  submissions and 
other statements. But regardless  of this, it is now for me to decide  which  address I think  
most likely was the correct risk address when taking account  of all the evidence provided  by 
both parties and I dont  consider this statement from Zenith as conclusive. 
Zenith have given us copies  of quotes  Ms F ran on the day she bought  her policy.  The 
quotes show she first said she lived at the address  one and then at address two. There  
were a number of quotes where shed alternated between the addresses. I think  its most 
likely that the first address Ms F entered, address one,  would  be the address she actually 
lived at.  Ms F told us that the information she entered changed because different insurance  
sites worded questions  slightly  differently after she clicked on them  to obtain  more details of 
the quotes. She explained she went back and amended the details she was inputting as the 
website insurers asked  the questions differently. I do accept insurance websites may pose 
questions differently. However, having  reviewed the data input for quotes there are some  
differences in the data Ms F input that wouldnt be asked in different  or unambiguous ways 
such as how many years of no-claim discount Ms F had, or the value of the vehicle. But 
these were something that also changed  between quotes. So I find that it is most likely Ms F 
was indeed manipulating answers to try and get a cheaper quote for his insurance, including  
her address.  
Ive also listened  to the telephone calls Ms F had with Zenith. The accounts conflicted a 
number of times, even  within the same call and including  statements that her sister  owned 
the property Ms F owns. I also note that she again  said first of all that she lived at address 
one. I appreciate that Ms F was distressed  following the accident. But I do think its 
Ref: DRN74054153reasonable for Zenith  to rely on her first statement that her main  address  was address one. 
Particularly as further investigation showed clear  ties to this property, and this address  being 
entered first for quotations. So I think all of this suggests that Ms F didnt take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation.
Having decided that on balance I think Ms F made  a misrepresentation, I have gone on to 
consider whether this was a qualifying  misrepresentation.  
To show Ms Fs misrepresentation  was a qualifying one, under CIDRA  Zenith  need  to show 
they would  either not have offered the policy at all if Ms F hadnt  made  the 
misrepresentation, or that they would have offered it on different terms. 
CIDRA says a misrepresentation is deemed reckless if Ms F didnt care that the information 
was untrue or misleading and didnt  care whether it was relevant  to the insurer. Given  Ms F 
changed the address a number of time when getting  quotes, I dont think  she cared  whether  
the information she gave the insurer was true or not. And was most likely looking for the 
cheapest premium.
Zenith have provided  us with information that persuades me they wouldnt have insured 
Ms F if shed said she lived at address one. So, even if Ms Fs misrepresentation was 
careless it was fair for Zenith avoid the policy. Its also refunded  the premium Ms F paid. So I 
think its actions are fair.
Given this, Im satisfied that Zenith acted fairly and reasonably in deciding to avoid the 
policy. And, as that means there was no policy in place at the time of the accident, it follows 
that Zeniths entitled  to refuse  to pay her claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7405415