K820x#14Complaint
Miss X complains  PayPal  Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) should refund her all the 
transactions which took place involving PayPal accounts she says she didnt apply for.
Background
Miss X has brought several  complaints  to our service in the past, some of which have been 
subject to final decisions. I think its important to highlight them in order to be clear on what  I 
am considering for this decision.
Previous Complaints
In 2015 Miss X brought a complaint against PayPal  and part of what  she complained about 
were transactions she said she didnt  make.  The complaint  was brought  jointly with a person 
who at that time she said she ran a business  with.  And at that time,  she said she and the 
other person had been subject to fraud  over a significant number of years which had caused 
their business substantial losses. The ombudsman who considered their complaint decided 
not to uphold it. They found  the transactions in dispute represented payments for goods 
which both Miss X and the other person  likely received. 
In 2016 Miss X brought a complaint about an account she held with a bank. Part of what  she 
complained about related to transactions she says she didnt make, and the person 
responsible for making them was her former carer. This was the same person who was the 
joint complainant  on her previous PayPal complaint. The ombudsman decided they didnt 
think her former bank needed  to do anything more than it had done in regard to the 
payments she was disputing  although  the complaint  was upheld for a different reason.
So, in view of the above, I will not be re-considering the actions of PayPal that were subject 
to the final decision  made by an ombudsman on Miss Xs previous PayPal complaint, nor the 
PayPal account  to which that decision pertained. Neither will I be reconsidering the 
resolutions and decisions  that were  reached  on her other complaints, including  the complaint 
she brought against her former bank. 
What I will be considering  is PayPals  decision not to refund Miss X for transactions she 
disputes making under PayPal accounts created  in her name or using her details, which 
have not otherwise been considered by an ombudsman.
This Complaint
In June 2016 a PayPal  account was set up using  Miss Xs details and registered to a bank 
account in her name. And in December 2016, another  PayPal account was set up using her 
details but without a bank  account being  registered  to it. Multiple payments were then made 
using the accounts.
Miss X says she didnt  set up any PayPal accounts.  She says her former carer made the 
payments and shes the victim of fraud. Shes  told us she suffers from a number of serious 
Ref: DRN71923652health conditions,  which have caused  her to be in hospital for long periods, and her former 
carer took advantage of this. Many of the PayPal payments  were  for goods she says she 
never received.
PayPal think Miss X agreed  to the payments  she disputes. Theyve  provided records to show  
a lot of the purchases had a delivery address which corresponded to her residential  address. 
They did refund a transaction and say this was because it wasnt consistent with the other 
purchases that were  made.
An investigator at our service considered Miss Xs complaint and decided  not to uphold it. In 
summary they thought it was reasonable for PayPal to conclude  Miss X had agreed to the 
transactions. The nature of the transactions  usually for small low value items - werent 
what theyd expect someone trying to defraud her would purchase.  And some items  
wouldve been hard not to have noticed  being  delivered, such  as a sofa. 
The investigator also said some purchases  had a hospital as the delivery address and this 
likely corresponded  to the hospital  where  Miss X had said shed stayed during the time she 
said shed been  admitted.  It was unlikely a fraudster would choose to use the address of the 
person they were trying to defraud, particularly  the bed where that person was staying, when  
they could more easily use another address to intercept the goods.
Miss X disagreed with the findings of the investigator. She said her former banks statements 
and police crime numbers  demonstrate  shes been the victim of fraud by her former  carer. 
She says her former  carer was interviewed  under caution for cashing her late fathers 
inheritance. And she says when she returned from hospital at the end of May 2016, she 
came home to piles of brand-new clothes  likely the goods which her former career  had 
purchased without her permission. The police  were called to witness this, and the items were  
then returned  to the respective merchants.
Miss X has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to
uphold Miss Xs complaint for very much  the same reasons  our investigator gave.
It seems  to me the central thing  I need  to consider here is whether I think Miss X agreed to 
PayPal accounts  being set up in her name and the subsequent  transactions  that took place 
on them
I acknowledge that what Miss X says happened is possible. Her former carer  may have 
exploited her vulnerability and set up PayPal  accounts and other  accounts  in her name to 
make purchases she didnt agree to or benefit from. Simply put, I cant know for certain what  
happened between  her and her former carer. But when facts  are unclear, I need to decide 
what I think is more likely  than not to have happened. And, despite what  Miss X says,  I think 
its much  more likely  the accounts were  set up by her or by someone  with her permission. 
And I think the subsequent transactions made using the accounts were likely  done with her 
agreement. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN71923653Miss X told the investigator who answered her complaint that she has only ever had one 
email account  the one she used to refer her complaints to us. But I dont think what Miss X 
says on this point  is plausible. I see she communicated with PayPal from another email 
address quite regularly, and this is the email  that was used to set up both PayPal accounts. I 
think this is telling, as I dont think someone attempting  to defraud  her would risk using an 
email address to which Miss X had access. I also see the accounts were set up using her 
mobile phone number, the same  one she gave to our service when she brought her 
complaint.
PayPal has provided  the purchase details for each transaction Miss X disputes. And in many  
instances the delivery address given  to the merchant was the address where Miss X resided.  
The address  was changed to where Miss X moved  to, and this would make sense if Miss Xs 
former carer  did live with her. But considering  the sheer number of purchases,  I think its 
very unlikely  this person wouldve been able to intercept each package without Miss X 
noticing, particularly  when some of the items purchased were  sizeable, including  a sofa.
I agree  too with what the investigator  said - that it would  be very unusual  for someone trying 
to defraud Miss X to use a hospital  address as the address for delivery;  particularly the 
hospital where Miss X told us she had been  admitted, during the time she stayed there. So, 
again I think its very likely  this purchase  was something Miss X made herself or got 
someone else to do for her.
I understand PayPal  decided  to refund one transaction and Miss X received refunds from 
another website.  But while these are relevant considerations,  a businesss decision to refund 
her transactions doesnt mean  I must  conclude Miss X didnt authorise those transactions. 
Indeed, I doubt  I would ask PayPal to refund the transaction they did refund had they not 
already done so. So, based on the evidence  Ive seen Im satisfied PayPal need not refund 
Miss X the transactions for which she didnt receive a refund.
Miss X says she has sent in numerous reports from the National Fraud  Intelligence  Bureau  
(NFIB). Ive looked carefully at what she sent in, and I think her evidence  shows  she 
reported the transactions. But I dont think the reports  themselves establish that Miss X didnt 
authorise them. Neither do I find the fact that Miss X contacted the NFIB as particularly 
persuasive or that it adds weight to her version  of events.  
Miss X has also referenced her former banks statements, which  she says show fraud on her 
account. But I must make clear her complaint about  her former bank and her account with 
them was decided by another ombudsman. So, I am not reconsidering it here, except  to 
repeat that the ombudsman didnt direct  her former bank  to refund her any more 
transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Xs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Ref: DRN71923654Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7192365