K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a claim she made 
under her home insurance  policy for water damage. 
Mrs Ps husband brought this complaint to our service.  But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs P directly.
background
In July 2018 Mrs P made a claim under her AXA home insurance  policy  for water  damage to 
her property which had been caused by a damaged external drain  pipe. She said this 
caused water ingress into the propertys cellar and subsequent damage to the lounge  
located above it. 
Mrs P said she didnt  notice the water  damage in the second lounge  before the date she 
reported it to AXA.  She lives in a large  property and says the second  lounge, where the 
damage has occurred,  is a room she doesnt use. Her house has two other reception rooms,  
which she said she prefers to regularly use.
Mrs P also said that the layout of the second  lounge meant the water  damage wouldnt be 
visible just on entering the room. The damage  was concealed with furniture and there was a 
corroded plug socket, which was hidden  by a chair in the corner  of the room. 
Mrs P said she discovered the damage only on entering the lounge in question to search  for 
paperwork in a footstool, which is located in the corner of the room. At that point she says 
she noticed the floor was moving underneath her. She said she hadnt smelt damp before 
this point. And she thought the deterioration  must  have increased markedly  in recent times 
because when the windows had been replaced  within the last couple of years there was no 
evidence of this damage.
AXA instructed  two agents to inspect the damage  sustained to Mrs Ps property. Both 
provided a report to AXA.
When the first agent attended Mrs Ps property it noted that the main  area of damage was in 
the second lounge and that the damage was concealed by furniture.  Upon inspection  there  
was evidence of water ingress which had travelled up the wall and caused the floor to 
become unstable. Rotten skirting and a heavily corroded plug socket were seen during this 
inspection. Directly below  the second  lounge  was a cellar. There, the underside of the 
lounge floor consisted of rotten timber that required replacement.  
This agent thought the damage was pre-existing and due to long standing  rot, which had 
been ongoing for a minimum of two to three  years. It thought that, given the extent of the 
damp on the floor and walls, Mrs P ought  to have been aware of the problem for some time 
before she reported  it. 
When the second agent attended it undertook repairs  required to the outside drainage 
system. It felt this was allowing ingress of water  into the cellar area, which was causing 
damage to the second lounge. Part of its work  was to move a downpipe away  from the cellar  
to avoid recurrence  of the problem. It told AXA that, after speaking with Mrs P and inspecting  
the damage caused, it was satisfied with her explanation of what had happened.  It didnt 
Ref: DRN79096542think she had ignored damage to her property. So, it recommended  that AXA cover  the 
internal damage  that the water ingress had caused. 
Mrs P was initially  advised AXA would cover repairs relating  to the internal  damage her 
property had sustained. But it later told her it was declining that part of her claim because its 
view was that the damage was pre-existing and due to longstanding rot, which had been 
ongoing for a minimum of two to three years. AXA thought Mrs P shouldve been aware the 
cellar let water in and, so, ought to have  noticed  the damage sooner. It said it had made an 
error in telling her that it was prepared to agree  to the remedial work and it apologised for 
giving incorrect information.  To recognise the trouble and upset this caused AXA sent Mrs P 
a cheque for £50.
Mrs P was dissatisfied with AXAs refusal to cover the internal damage to her property  and 
referred her complaint  to our service.  Our investigator looked into what had happened and 
upheld Mrs Ps complaint.  She didnt think AXA had acted fairly and felt AXA should have 
honoured the claim for the internal damage. She recommended  that it refund Mrs P the 
balance of the invoices she had paid to repair her property plus interest. But AXA disagreed 
and asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that water damage  occurred to Mrs Ps property and that the cellar and 
second lounge  incurred substantial damage. However, theres a dispute between  Mrs P, 
AXA and its appointed agents about the correct  outcome of this claim. 
Damage from an escape of water is covered by Mrs Ps policy,  but the crux of this complaint 
is whether Mrs P ought to have noticed  the damage  to her property before she reported it to 
AXA. In determining this issue Ive carefully  considered the evidence from Mrs P, AXA and 
its two agents.  
Ive seen photographs of the lounge that sustained water  damage. The furniture  concealing 
the damage is matching. So, I dont think it has been  placed in the room after the damage 
was discovered. And its clear to me that the layout is as Mrs P has described from the 
outset. I accept that this would make it difficult to see the damage on just entering  the room.  
As the damage  was concealed  by furniture it could only be seen if furniture was moved.  This 
explains why Mrs P only became aware  of the damage when retrieving paperwork from the 
corner of the room, which caused her to notice that the floor was moving  underneath  her. 
AXA thinks  there were opportunities to notice the damage while the lounge was being  
cleaned or while curtains  were being  drawn. But a room that isnt in regular use wouldnt 
require much cleaning.  And Ive no reason  to doubt Mrs P when she says she didnt use this 
room regularly. Ive already  mentioned  that she lives in a large property, which has two other 
reception rooms she prefers to regularly use instead. I think,  given the size of Mrs Ps 
property, its reasonable  that there  are rooms she doesnt use regularly.
Bearing in mind the damage was concealed by furniture, Im not persuaded its reasonable 
for AXA to expect consumers to move furniture regularly  especially in a room thats not in 
regular use. And Im persuaded that Mrs P had no opportunity to observe the damage before 
Ref: DRN79096543the point she did. Overall, I think the account  shes given about the circumstances in which 
she came  to notice the damage is credible.
Im mindful, of course, that the water damage  is likely to have been more  obvious in the 
cellar underneath the lounge. The cellar  is damp  but theres a pump to remove  water.  And 
Mrs P has explained why she hadnt  been  into the cellar. She says the cellar isnt used, so, 
she has no need to go down there.  And bearing in mind what shes said here I think  shes 
provided a plausible and credible explanation as to why she wouldnt have had opportunity 
to notice the escape of water into the cellar. 
Ive carefully thought  about whether the action  Mrs P took after discovering the damage is 
consistent with someone  who was acting  promptly. Having done so, Im satisfied she didnt 
ignore the damage to her property. I also think she dealt with the claim proactively after 
noticing the damage. Ill explain why.
After she noticed  the water damage  Mrs P asked a local damp proof  company to look at the 
damage. This was before AXA instructed its first agent to undertake an inspection  of the 
property. Mrs P shared  the report this company had compiled with AXA and paid for the 
drain pipe to be directed away from the property  as was recommended. I think  this 
demonstrates she was keen to resolve  the issue quickly and that she acted proactively.
Mrs P also paid herself to put matters right and remedy the damage after AXA refused to 
honour her claim. By the time this happened  the problem had worsened. So, the remedial  
costs had increased substantially. And Im not persuaded that someone who had ignored  the 
damage or been  aware of it earlier  would  have taken action in this way. This, in my view,  
corroborates what Mrs P has told our service  and AXA.
The terms of Mrs Ps policy  outline  the circumstances in which  loss or damage caused by an 
escape of water will be covered. AXA seek to rely on a general exclusion that avoids it 
covering Loss or damage arising  from gradually operating  causes including  deterioration,  
wear and tear, corrosion,  rot or similar cause  It also says a consumer must  do all that [they] 
can reasonably  do to avoid injury,  loss or damage and protect [their]  property. 
I can see our investigator has already told AXA that our approach here would  be to 
determine whether  the consumer ought to have been aware  of the damage happening 
gradually and took reasonable action  once they became  aware. 
Ive already explained why Im not persuaded Mrs P knew about  the damage  before she 
reported it. She couldnt have told AXA or have  taken any steps  to prevent the damage 
becoming worse until she became aware  of it. As the internal damage hasnt come back 
since it was repaired,  I believe it was caused by the damaged external drain  pipe. As stated 
above, Im satisfied Mrs P took proactive steps  to report and remedy  the damage  once  she 
became aware  of it. It follows that it wouldnt be fair for AXA to rely on this exclusion here. 
I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Mrs P. She thought  at the start the claim 
was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss. But, after AXAs agents attended her 
property, her claim was declined. There was a communication  error which  AXA has already  
recognised by sending Mrs P a cheque for £50. I think  AXA was right to make that payment 
and I think £50 is fair compensation for the distress  this error caused.
Ref: DRN79096544my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to: 
refund  the balance  of the invoices  Mrs P paid to have the internal remedial works 
already completed  in connection with the water damage to her home;
pay simple  interest at a rate of 8% per annum on this balance from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement*.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA Insurance UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off it 
she asks for one.
Ref: DRN7909654