K820x#14Complaint
Mrs E has complained that she was mis-sold a whole of life assurance policy  by a 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited (Legal & General).
Background
Mrs E purchased an Over  50s life insurance policy  through  a representative  of Legal & 
General in February 2014. Mrs E said she took out the policy to provide a pay out for her 
children and to cover  her funeral costs.
In 2018 Mrs E cancelled  the policy due to affordability concerns. She also raised a complaint 
as she didnt think the policy was fit for purpose. Mrs E explained the sum assured was 
around £3,000  and this wouldnt cover funeral costs and provide a lump  sum for her children. 
She also said the representative  had pressured  her to sign the paperwork even though she 
told them  she wanted some time to discuss the cover with an adviser first. Mrs E said shed 
since found a cheaper policy that met her needs.
Legal & General didnt think the policy had been  mis-sold. It said the representative hadnt 
provided any advice  so it as up to Mrs E to decide  whether the policy met her needs.
Unhappy with Legal & Generals response, Mrs E referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Mrs E had signed  the application form, 
which showed the amount the policy would pay out in the event of her death. So, she 
thought Mrs E shouldve  questioned this at the time if shed wanted more cover  than this.
Mrs E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Legal & General has told us this policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means that 
the representative didnt recommend the policy  to Mrs E. Instead, he provided Mrs E with 
information about a policy that would meet the needs of someone looking for insurance  to 
cover funeral  expenses  and leave a lump-sum to their children. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest the sale of the policy was advised. So, Ive considered the obligations of the 
representative when  selling the policy on a non-advised basis.
Under the relevant regulations, the representative  was required to give Mrs E enough 
information to decide whether the policy  met her needs.
The policy Mrs E purchased was an Over 50s life insurance plan. This type of policy  has no 
fixed term; instead it runs for the duration of the policyholders life as long as the premiums 
are paid. This type of policy is generally  suitable  for someone looking to provide a lump sum 
and cover funeral  expenses on death.  The features of the policy wouldve been explained in 
the policy summary  Mrs E signed a declaration on the application form confirming shed 
seen and read the policy summary.
The application form shows that Mrs E could choose  the premium  she wanted to pay  this 
effectively determined how much  cover would be provided in turn. The application  form 
Ref: DRN71071772shows that Mrs E wanted to pay £10 per month  this provided her with cover of £2,992, 
which was clearly written on the form. The application form also shows  that Mrs E hadnt 
chosen a fixed  plan. This meant the sum assured of £2,992 and premium would increase 
each year. If Mrs E didnt think the sum assured was high enough to meet her needs, I think 
she had the opportunity to say so at that point.
I know Mrs E said she was pressured to sign the paperwork  and that she was vulnerable at 
the time,  having  lost her mother a couple of years  beforehand. Im really sorry to hear that 
Mrs E was going through a tough  time then  I hope she is doing better now.
Its difficult for me to make a finding on whether  Mrs E was pressured by the representative 
when the policy was sold to her. The sale took place  in person, so there isnt anything like a 
call recording  which would help shed light on things. But even if I could say that Mrs E felt 
pressured to agree to take the policy there  and then, she wouldve been sent the policy  
documents by Legal & General afterwards.  Mrs E wouldve been prompted  to review the 
cover carefully, to ensure she was happy  with it. She wouldve also been  sent her 
cancellation rights  if, on reflection, she didnt think the policy met her needs.  Mrs E didnt 
cancel the policy until September 2018,  when she raised concerns about its affordability. So 
it seems to me Mrs E was happy  with the policy at the time it was sold to her.
Overall, I think Mrs E was given enough  information about how the policy worked and the 
amount of cover it would provide her with at the time she decided  to proceed with it. So, 
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7107177