K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about CIGNA  Life Insurance Company  of Europe SA-NVs decision to 
decline part of his claim under his employers  group  private  medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr P was a member of his employers group private  medical insurance policy, held with 
CIGNA. He required some treatment and made  a claim under the policy.
CIGNA paid part of the claim. However,  it declined Mr Ps claim for the cost of certain 
medication. It said the policy covered only the cost of prescribed medication and that Mr P 
had claimed for non-prescribed medication. Mr P complained  to CIGNA but it wouldnt 
change its decision.
Mr P was unhappy at CIGNAs stance. He referred  his complaint to us. He said that the 
medicines had been medically necessary  and were recommended by his doctor. He 
therefore thought CIGNA should  pay his claim,  particularly as it had covered the cost when 
he had claimed  under  similar circumstances previously.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that CIGNA had applied  the terms of the policy correctly. He noted  that CIGNA had 
apparently paid a previous claim in error but he said this didnt bind it to accept future  similar 
claims.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings.  He continued to feel that CIGNA had acted 
unfairly.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
In a list of the outpatient benefits, the policy states that prescribed  medicines,  drugs  and 
dressings are paid in full. I consider it is implicit from this that there is no cover  for the cost 
of medicines which are not prescribed.
When Mr P made his claim, it included some medicines which his doctor had prescribed and 
other medicines which his doctor had simply recommended.  CIGNA agreed to cover  the cost 
of the former but not the latter. I consider this to be fair.
Mr P says that all the medicines were medically  necessary and that the distinction between  
prescribed and recommended is simply bureaucratic and not important.  However, I consider 
that the policy is clear, that there  is a difference between prescribed and non-prescribed 
medication, and that unless the medicines were  prescribed there  is no obligation on CIGNA 
to cover the cost. It appears that Mr P didnt need  a prescription for the medicines in dispute  
because they were available over-the-counter.  But unless his doctor  wrote  a prescription for 
these medicines, I consider it was fair for CIGNA to say it wouldnt cover their cost.
Ref: DRN72065492Mr P has drawn attention  to a previous claim where CIGNA paid for the cost of over-the-
counter medication  which had been recommended by his doctor. CIGNA accepts it did this 
but says it was an error and the claim shouldnt  have been paid. Im satisfied that this was 
the case. Mr P says that CIGNA should have  informed  him that it had made this error  
because he could have  then ensured he obtained a prescription  for the over-the-counter 
medication before he made his later claim.  However, it appears to me that CIGNA wasnt 
aware of its error until Mr P drew attention to the earlier payment. CIGNA has said that, in 
view of its low value, it wont seek to receiver the cost of the payment made  in error. Im 
satisfied that this is fair and that the fact it paid the earlier claim in error  doesnt mean CIGNA 
is obliged to accept  future  claims from Mr P for non-prescribed medication.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7206549