K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N and Mr S complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc recorded information about 
them on a fraud  prevention  database  when they applied  for a further advance on their 
mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs N, and Mrs Ns father  Mr S, are all parties to a mortgage with BoI, though only 
Mr and Mrs N live in the property. Mr and Mrs N wanted to carry out some home 
improvements so applied for further borrowing.
The application was made via a series of phone calls, two with Mrs N and one with Mr N. BoI 
refused the application. 
Mr N later applied for business banking  facilities  with another bank   the application  was 
declined. He carried out a subject access request and learned that BoI had put an entry 
against his name with a fraud  prevention database known as CIFAS.
BoI has since confirmed that it recorded  entries against all three  of Mr N, Mrs N and Mr S. It 
said this was of because of information  it had found during its underwriting checks. It said 
they hadnt declared their other  credit  commitments - apart  from one loan  during the 
application process.
Our investigator said that BoI should  remove the entries against  Mr S and Mr N. It had no 
contact with Mr S at all during the application process, so he hadnt misled the bank. And 
she didnt think Mr N was asked clear  questions during his call  but Mrs N was. So she 
didnt think she could  fairly ask BoI to remove the entry on her record. BoI didnt agree, so 
the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fraud prevention  agency publishes principles for its members, including  BoI, that it 
expects them to abide by in making  entries on its database.  One of the principles says that 
an entry  shouldnt be made unless, following an investigation, the relevant standard of proof  
is met.
The issue  in this case is that an application  was made for a further advance on the joint 
mortgage. In the course of the application, BoI was told that Mr and Mrs N and Mr S had a 
single personal  loan  but its standard underwriting checks  revealed several  other regular 
credit commitments  that hadnt  been disclosed as part of the application.
In the case of Mr S, he had no contact with BoI during the application process. He didnt 
actively tell BoI anything. BoI says he signed to acknowledge receipt of the suitability report, 
confirming it was accurate. Ive looked at the report and I can see it says net monthly 
liabilities: £158. Theres no further  information to explain what this means. I dont think,  on 
its own, that this is enough  to fairly  say that Mr S misled BoI to the relevant standard of 
proof.
Ref: DRN71513302Mr N had one call with BoI as well as confirming the suitability report. That call was a follow 
up to an earlier one between the bank and Mrs N. In the call, Mr N was asked if he had any 
other mortgages, and replied, accurately, no. Then  the agent asked the only thing is the 
loan that your partner  has with [another bank] for £158?  Or is it joint? Mr N replied yeah 
yeah. The call handler then asked No other  commitments? However, this was said very 
quietly, Mr N made no reply and, on balance, Im not satisfied that he clearly heard the 
question. I therefore dont  think  I can fairly say its been shown,  to the relevant standard of 
proof, that Mr N misled BoI either.
Mrs N dealt with the first two calls.  I think Mrs N was asked clearly about her commitments  
and only declared  the loan referred to above   though she had several other  credit  
commitments at the time.  Mrs N has said she was pregnant at the time and this made her 
forgetful. But I havent seen any medical evidence of that. And she was clearly asked about  
her credit commitments on two separate calls and both times accurately  declared  one loan  
but not her other commitments. On balance, I dont  think I can fairly ask BoI to remove  the 
entry it has recorded against her name.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint, in part, and direct 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc to remove any entries it has made  on fraud prevention  databases in 
respect of Mr N and Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N and 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7151330