K820x#14Complaint
Mr D is a director of a limited company, M. Hes complained on Ms behalf that IFS Risk 
Solutions (UK) Limited (IFS) mis-sold M a freight  liability insurance policy which  resulted in 
an insurance claim being declined.
Background
M appointed IFS  a broker - to its existing freight liability insurance  policy  in April 2017. At 
the point of renewal  in 2018 the policy  was moved to a new insurer because IFS had 
obtained a more competitive quote. 
In September  2018, two loaded trailers containing goods in transit for one of Ms clients  were 
stolen from Ms haulage yard. The first trailer had incomplete delivery  paperwork so it was 
agreed that it should be stored at Ms haulage  yard until the delivery was rebooked. The 
second trailer was collected and brought to Ms yard as it was awaiting finalised delivery  
details. Both trailers were disconnected and parked in Ms yard without any security devices 
being applied.
Mr D realised the trailers were  missing on Friday 21 September when he was completing a 
trailer audit. He presumed a theft must have occurred and he reported it to the police. Both 
trailers had been stored on Ms site from 16 September  2018, but the exact date of the theft 
couldnt be identified.  
Mr D claimed  on Ms insurance policy for the theft. The insurer declined  the claim as it said 
that M didn't ensure the correct security  processes were  in place whilst the trailers were left 
unattended within the yard. 
Mr D complained to the broker, IFS, on the basis that they had mis-sold the insurance policy.  
Mr D said IFS had been negligent as they hadnt  disclosed  that a non-dropping clause had 
been introduced  in the changeover of insurer.
IFS responded to Mr Ds claims and said the following;
Cover for loaded containers dropped  in Ms yard were covered under the policy, 
subject to certain conditions being  met by the assured - particularly in relation to a 
vehicle/trailer being  left unattended  and compliance  with specific  security  
conditions.
The last three policies had been  reviewed and there was no significant change  in 
the new policy that wouldve needed  to be specifically highlighted to M. 
They made adequate provision  to ensure M was aware of the clause(s)  in relation 
to vehicles left in the yard and it was Ms responsibility to review the documentation 
and ensure  the policy was suitable for its needs.
Mr D was unhappy with IFSs response, so he referred Ms complaint to our service.
For various reasons,  two of our investigators looked  into matters, but neither thought this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr D didnt agree and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN77206902My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same reasons. So, I dont  think  IFS need 
to do anything more  to put things  right and Ive explained why below.
Advised sale
The sale of the policy was an advised sale and as such it was the role of IFS to ensure the 
demands and needs  of M were assessed , following which they would make personalised 
recommendations to it. In June 2018, IFS told Mr D that they had obtained a more  
competitive quote  for it from a different insurer. 
The demands and needs identified section of the proposal noted  that Mr D had asked 
for the following, gain favourable renewal terms.
IFS asked Mr D to read through the information they had provided and confirm that it met 
Ms requirements. There was a warning  in the covering  email  reminding Mr D to take 
particular note of any conditions precedent that appeared  in the policy.
A condition  precedent means that the policyholder (in this case  M) is required to do 
something before the insurer has any liability under the policy.  In this case It meant  that if M 
didnt adhere to the specific  security conditions relating to trailers left unattended,  then its 
insurer didnt need to pay its claim.  
From what  I have  seen, Mr D didnt ask any questions about the policy, including  the 
conditions precedent, nor ask for any changes to be made to Ms requirements  before  he 
returned the signed proposal to IFS in August  2018,  allowing the insurance  to commence 
with the new provider. 
So, I think it is fair to say that Mr D had the opportunity to query any changes  to the policy  
prior to accepting it, and as he didnt, its reasonable to assume that he didnt think  there 
were any significant  changes to it.
The terms of the policy  
   
Mr D said the policy was mis-sold because IFS hadnt disclosed that a non-dropping clause 
had been introduced in the changeover of insurer, meaning it wasnt  fully insured to drop 
loaded containers  in its haulage yard. IFS said this was not the case. 
They said cover for loaded containers dropped  in Ms yard was provided under the policy, 
subject to certain conditions being  met by the assured, particularly in relation to a 
vehicle/trailer being left unattended and compliance  with specific security  conditions.
I have reviewed and compared the new policy with the previous policy  and note the 
following.
The Conditions Precedent to Liability section of the new policy  specifically required 
unattached or detached trailers  to have an anti-hitching device attached  and in effect - but 
the previous policy  didnt  specify the term anti-hitching device. 
However, the previous policy stated that all protective appliances and locking devices are 
put into effect in accordance with the manufacturers'  recommendations  on any unattended 
Ref: DRN77206903vehicle owned  or operated by the assured. And it said the insurer  would not be liable under 
the policy unless  this specific obligation was adhered to.
As such,  I think its fair and reasonable to say that there was a requirement  in both policies 
for any protective  appliances or locking devices to be attached to the trailers and working. 
So, I cant see that there has been a significant  change in the policy  terms and I dont think 
its fair to say that IFS have mis-sold the policy.
What the insurer  said
The insurer  said that M had not adhered to the requirements under the policy  in relation  to 
the conditions  precedent  to liability. They declined the claim on the basis that M didn't 
ensure the correct security processes were in place  when the containers were left 
unattended within the yard. 
There was a five-day window during which the trailers were  unattended and during which the 
theft occurred. The meaning of unattended is outlined within the policy  directly  below clause  
4 which  the insurer  relied upon:
for the purposes of this clause,
unattended" shall mean all times  when the driver or other employee to whom goods  are 
entrusted does not have the vehicle, container  or goods  under direct  observation  and is 
not close enough and fit and able to have a reasonable  prospect of deterring or 
attempting to prevent any interference with or theft of the goods;
Ive looked at the written and photographic evidence that Mr D has provided,  including a 
copy of the signed witness statement he provided to the insurance  company. 
I have taken Mr Ds comments on board, but I havent seen the evidence  to support them.  
What I have seen  is:
 The gates  werent securely locked.  By Mr Ds own admission, they were open during
the week and closed at the weekend but without  the use of a padlock which makes it 
hard to argue that all access points have been  securely shut and locked.
 The family home was empty during the week the theft took place.
 There is a metal  fence around some of the perimeter of the site, but I dont  agree  that it 
is thoroughly contained  by it. From the aerial photograph provided,  the yard looks like it 
can be accessed on one side by crossing  a grassed area.
 The gates  werent securely locked.  By Mr Ds own admission, they were open during
the week and closed at the weekend but without  the use of a padlock which makes it 
hard to argue that all access points have been  securely shut and locked.
 It is unlikely that there was someone awake  all night acting as a security  guard. I say 
this as the date of the theft hasnt been identified  and given the size and weight  of the 
trailers, a vehicle wouldve  been  required to carry out the theft. So, it seems unlikely 
that no one wouldve  noticed the theft taking place  if there was always someone  
observing the site to deter interference. 
 There were no cctv cameras in use.
Ref: DRN77206904 Mr D has provided photographs of a damaged fence panel. However, I cant  see that 
these pictures show evidence of the type of forced  entry or exit to the site which wouldve 
been required to steal two loaded trailers from a secure locked compound.
 I think its fair and reasonable to say that the trailers were unattended  when the theft 
occurred, as no employee of M realised the trailers were missing  before Mr D completed  
his audit of the yard,  nor is anyone able to pinpoint exactly when or how the theft occurred.  
It is for all of these reasons that I think the insurer would have declined the claim even if the 
previous policy  had still been in place.
Conclusion
IFS asked Mr D to confirm  the policy met Ms requirements before accepting the new policy.  
Im not persuaded that the policy wording was significantly different that IFS needed  to bring  
anything specific to Ms attention or that it wouldve made a difference  to the outcome of Ms 
claim if they had. 
Im also not convinced that M wouldve done  anything differently if the changes to the 
conditions of the policy had been highlighted to it. M hadnt ensured it was adhering to the 
conditions of the previous policy, despite  knowing what those conditions were.  So, I think its 
unlikely the previous insurer  wouldve paid this particular claim in these particular 
circumstances. 
I appreciate how disappointing  this will be, but I dont agree that the policy has been mis-sold 
and I wont be asking  IFS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
M, to accept or reject my decision  before 26 March 2021.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7720690