K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T say CitiFinancial Europe  Limited (Citi)  mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy for a loan that Mr and Mrs T took out in 
1999. The PPIs  cost was added onto the loan and attracted interest.  Thats called a single 
premium policy.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Citi disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so the 
complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
I think Mr and Mrs Ts PPI policy was mis-sold,  for the same reasons as our adjudicator.
Citi recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs T, so it had to check  it was right for them. But 
I dont think it was right for them.
Firstly, the policy was very expensive for the benefit it provided. And it was unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs T could  have  ever claimed enough  to get back  what they paid for it. So I dont 
think Mr and Mrs T would  have found  that it was good value for money.
Secondly, the single  premium PPI was set up to be paid over the full 10 year loan term, 
racking up interest over the whole term. But it only covered Mr and Mrs T for the first five 
years. After those five years were up, Mr and Mrs T had to continue paying for a policy  that 
didnt give them any cover anymore,  plus interest, for another five years.  And for the 
remaining term of the loan, they wouldve been without cover. If theyd  then wanted  cover,  
they wouldve  had to pay for a second  policy on top of still paying for the expired one. So 
I dont think this was suitable for them. It also doesnt look like Mr and Mrs T were  given 
clear enough  information  about  the PPIs term and what would happen when it ran out.
Lastly, I think Mr and Mrs T wouldve needed a flexible arrangement,  given how long the 
loan was for. But the PPI only gave a limited  refund  if it was cancelled early. Again, I dont 
think this was suitable for them, and I cant see that they were given clear information about  
the policys cancellation terms. 
If Citi had given Mr and Mrs T suitable advice and explained that the PPI wasnt right for 
them, or if it had given them clear enough information about  the policys  benefits, its length 
of cover,  and its strict cancellation  terms, then I dont think theyd have  bought it. So I think  
Mr and Mrs T have  lost out because of what Citi did wrong. 
Ref: DRN79849192putting things right
Mr and Mrs T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. Mr and Mrs T paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more to 
repay the loan than it would have without PPI. So Mr and Mrs T need to get back the extra 
they paid.
So, Citi should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between what  they paid each month  
on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between what  it cost to pay off the 
loan and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs T paid, from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% simple  a year.
If Mr and Mrs T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citi can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citi to take off tax from this interest. Citi must give 
Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and 
Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
CitiFinancial Europe  Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7984919