K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Advantage  Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) has made  an offer of 
settlement under his motor insurance policy, thats  significantly less than the market  value of 
his car before  it was stolen.
background
Mr Bs car was stolen  in 2018. Advantage agreed to pay the claim for the car at a settlement  
amount of £20,686.  But Mr B thought this was too low and complained  to Advantage about 
this.
Advantage said they had valued  Mr Bs vehicle according to four recognised trade guides to 
determine a fair market  value for the car. They averaged the four guide prices, which 
resulted in a figure of £20,686.  They thought  this was fair in the circumstances, so didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B then bought his complaint to our service. He referenced  adverts  of similar  specification  
to his own car, which averaged £27,725.  Mr B believes his car could be called rare or classic 
and so the trade prices are not a true reflection of what it will cost him to replace it in the 
retail market.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. And, whilst she couldnt  agree the car was rare or 
classic, she didnt think the offer from Advantage fully reflected the car wasnt  usual in the 
marketplace. So she did further research and said £22,074 was a fair settlement figure  to 
offer Mr B.
Advantage didnt  agree  with this. They felt the trade guides were  generally fair and were 
concerned our investigator had seemed to prefer one particular guide over the other three. 
They also questioned the comparability of one of the vehicles found  during our investigators 
research. And they said the research had been  done two months after the claim was 
registered.
Advantage asked  for an ombudsman to make  a decision on this complaint. So this case  has 
been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator and Ill 
explain why.
My role isnt to value  Mr Bs car, but to make  sure Advantage has settled his claim fairly and 
reasonably in line with his policy terms. We normally give weight to the trade guides used for 
valuing motor vehicles,  as well as taking into account the evidence provided by both parties. 
This might include engineers reports, statements from dealers and, in some  cases,  adverts 
for similar cars.
Ref: DRN74493802Mr Bs policy  says if his car is stolen,  Advantage will pay the market  value  of his car 
immediately before the loss. They define market value as;
The cost of replacing  your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken  out. Your insurer may use 
publications such as Glasss Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
I can see Mr B has undertaken  significant  research into the market value of his car before it 
was stolen. And he said he couldnt find a car of similar specification for the sum Advantage 
have suggested.  So our investigator has also conducted research  and looked  at a number of 
vehicles she felt had similar specifications in order  to be fair to both parties.
Ive reviewed our investigators, Mr Bs and Advantages  research. And I can see a number 
of similar  specification cars on sale for considerably more than Advantages settlement 
figure. And, while it is appropriate  to take into account adverts  to some extent, the trade  
guides reflect the likely selling prices, taking into account the margins sellers get based on 
what they buy the cars in for or what theyre  likely  to knock  off in negotiations.  
So, in all the circumstances  of this case, Im satisfied to get to a fair and reasonable 
outcome, I should rely mainly on the trade  guides. But I think I need to bear in mind the 
adverts as a check of which guides are most likely  to be giving an accurate indication  of 
what it would  have  cost to buy a similar  car to Mr Bs at the time it was stolen.
So, looking  at the trade guide  valuations they range from £19,570 to £22,074. But the 
adverts suggest the higher end of this range is appropriate. And in the circumstances, I think  
its fair to go with the highest one of £22,074,  as our investigator suggested.
But I have considered what Advantage have said about us favouring one guide in preference  
to the other three. I dont  hold any of the guides in preference to any other,  but in the 
circumstances of this case,  I do think the additional evidence I have seen  particularly the 
adverts - suggests the guide giving  the highest  figure is most  likely to be right.  
Ive also thought about the point Advantage have  made about the comparability of one of the 
vehicles made during  our investigators  research.  But Ive looked at all the vehicles  she 
researched, together  with the research undertaken by Mr B and Advantage, as opposed to 
just one vehicle.  And, I think  what our investigator  has suggested is right.
Then Ive thought about the point Advantage make about our investigators  research being 
made two months  after the claim. And in all the circumstances I can see this might  have 
made a small difference to the outcome, as different cars might  have  been  available  at 
different prices. But her research was done within a reasonable  time and I dont feel this is a 
significant enough point to alter my view.
So, weighing everything up, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this case  is for the 
settlement of Mr Bs claim to be based  on a market value of £22,074. Im aware Advantage 
based its settlement  on £20,686 and after deducting the excess on his policy  of £195, 
actually paid Mr B £20,491.  So the outstanding  amount which  remains to be paid to Mr B is 
£1,388. And I think it should also add interest to this amount at our normal rate, as Mr B has 
been without this money. 
Ref: DRN74493803my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and order Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr B the following:
An additional amount of £1,388.
Interest on this amount at eight per cent per annum simple from the date it paid Mr B 
£20,491 to the date of actual payment*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Carl Robinson
ombudsman
*If Advantage Insurance  Company Limited  considers  it should  deduct income tax from any 
8% interest element of my award it may do so, but should give Mr B the necessary 
certificate.
Ref: DRN7449380