K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that the Specialist Care Handling Team (SCHT)  at Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC hasnt contacted  her despite assurances  that it would. 
background
In April 2017 Miss R contacted Barclays and asked it to write off her debts as she was 
experiencing financial difficulties as a result of her disability.  Barclays  didnt agree to write  off 
the debt but agreed to freeze payments for 12 months. Barclays  said it would contact Miss R 
at the end of the 12 months  to review her account.
Miss R contacted Barclays in October 2018  to complain  that she hadnt heard from them as 
promised. The payment freeze had remained in place throughout.
Barclays upheld Miss Rs complaint and paid compensation of £25 to Miss R. It told Miss R 
the SCHT would contact her by email, but this didnt happen.
Miss R complained again. Barclays said the account  was being reviewed and apologised for 
the delay in contacting  her. It confirmed the payment freeze would  continue. Barclays said 
that although it had told Miss R the SCHT would email her, it had made an error  as the 
SCHT was unable to correspond via email. The bank apologised for any inconvenience  
caused to Miss R. It said in order for the SCHT to consider a medical  write off of her 
account, Miss R would need to provide an up to date record  of income and expenditure and 
up to date medical information and records.
Miss R was unhappy with the banks response. She feels  that the SCHT hasnt made 
reasonable adjustments with regard  to her disability. Shes unhappy that she hasnt been 
contacted and says her disability is worsening  because of the stress caused.
To resolve  her complaint,  Miss R wants Barclays to write off the debt and pay compensation 
for the poor customer  service shes received.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said although Barclays  made  an error when 
it told Miss R the SCHT would contact her by email, it had apologised for this and had left 
the payment freeze in place which meant that Miss R hadnt been negatively financially  
impacted by the error. The investigator felt that the apology together  with the earlier  payment  
of compensation  was a fair response  by the bank. The investigator also said it was 
reasonable for the bank  to request further information from Miss R in order to reach a 
decision on whether  her debt could be written  off.
Miss R didnt agree. She said shed asked Barclays to write off her debts  because  of her 
disability. She was unhappy that shed been  asked to send personal information and said 
shed already sent evidence of her disability  in 2017  and that her diagnosis  hadnt changed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71629342I understand that Miss R wants the bank to write off her debt because of her disability. I also 
appreciate how frustrated Miss R must feel because she hasnt heard from the SCHT as she 
was expecting.
The bank has apologised for its failure to contact Miss R and has explained that the SCHT 
cant contact her by email. Miss R has told this service that shes  unable  to communicate by 
telephone due to a speech defect caused by her disability. Its not clear  from the information 
provided to me whether  the bank has been  made aware of the difficulties with telephone 
communication. Now that it is aware, I would expect the bank to make reasonable 
adjustments with regard  to Miss Rs disability, so if it isnt possible for the SCHT  to email 
Miss R then it should write to her.
I can see that Miss Rs account has been  subject to a review  for quite a long time. I 
appreciate that Miss Rs continuing financial difficulties have caused her worry and stress, 
which she says has made her disability worse.  Although the payment freeze  has remained in 
place, which  means  that the debt hasnt increased,  clearly it would be in Miss Rs interests  to 
receive a decision  on whether  the debt will be written off sooner rather than later.  In this 
respect, the bank says the SCHT needs  further  information from Miss R. I appreciate that 
Miss R doesnt want to provide personal  information  but in the circumstances, I dont think  
the bank is being unreasonable in requesting this.
I cant fairly ask the bank  to write off the debt before  financial  and medical evidence has 
been provided. I appreciate that Miss R says her disability hasnt changed since  she was 
first diagnosed. But the fact that Miss R is disabled doesnt mean that the bank should 
automatically write off the debt. 
In cases where consumers are experiencing financial difficulties, I would expect the bank to 
respond positively  and sympathetically. This may involve  options such  as freezing payments 
or repayment plans.  But I would  expect  the bank to ask for details of a consumers income  
and expenditure  before  it made any decisions.  In this case, I think Barclays has responded 
sympathetically to Miss R by freezing payments.
Once Miss R has provided  the information  which the bank  has asked for, and once the bank  
has reached its decision on whether to write  of the debt on medical grounds, if Miss R 
remains unhappy with the banks decision she can ask this service to look at the decision.
In the meantime, I dont  think  the bank has acted unreasonably in asking for information and 
I wont be asking it to write off the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7162934