K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he leased under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease  Ltd 
had numerous  faults which meant he needed  to return  it to the dealer on several occasions. 
He says this should have  been taken into account and offset against the end of lease excess  
mileage charge.
Background
Mr S entered into a three  year hire agreement with Lex Autolease  in September 2015. 
During the term of the agreement he experienced numerous issues  with the vehicle and had 
to return it to the dealer several times meaning he was without his vehicle for a combined 
total of eight weeks. He raised a complaint in 2016  which he says wasnt resolved and then 
raised another complaint  at the end of his lease term. Mr S says that Lex Autolease 
suggested the vehicle had been  returned five times,  but it was returned  many more times  
than this. He says Lex Autolease initially offered a £50 reduction in the mileage charge and 
then later a credit of £75 in recognition of the faults. 
The agreement had an annual  mileage  allowance of 15,000 miles. At the end of the lease 
Mr S vehicle had been driven over 64,000 miles and an excess  mileage charge was applied. 
Mr S says that the experience  he had with the vehicle should be taken into account when 
applying this charge and he should  be credited eight weeks of payment to reflect the time 
without the vehicle. 
Lex Autolease provided a final response  letter dated  25 October  2018.  In noted that Mr S 
needed to return  the car five times in the first year and said this was a considerable amount 
of times. It said it considered the mileage  involved  in this and offered to credit  Mr S account  
with £75 to reflect the inconvenience he had been caused. It said it only had records  of the 
visits it had noted,  and that Mr S was provided with alternative transport while  his car was in 
for repair. It also noted that it had provided  information on Mr S complaint to the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) and that the complaint had been 
investigated and not upheld.
Our investigator said that Mr S had raised his concerns about the excess mileage charge 
with the BVRLA  and this had been investigated and findings made. He explained that under 
our rules  set out by the Financial Conduct Authority it says: DISP  3.3.4a explains we wont  
be able to consider  complaints where  the subject matter of the complaint has been dealt 
with, or is being dealt  with, by a comparable  ADR  entity' and so he couldnt consider  this part 
of Mr S complaint further.
Our investigator noted that Mr S had raised a number of issues with the vehicle and while  
this had been considered  by BVRLA in the context  of whether it was fair to apply  the charges 
he didnt think the BVRLA  had investigated whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality 
and therefore  he considered this part of Mr S complaint.  He said that the vehicle was new 
when Mr S entered the hire agreement and so it should have been free from faults including 
minor defects. This wasnt the case and Mr S had to return  the vehicle several times in the 
first year. 
Given the issues raised within the first year, he thought it likely these issues were linked to 
the point of supply and felt Mr S had been caused  significant inconvenience by needing to 
return the vehicle  so many times. He said without further evidence he couldnt  establish the 
cause for the later issues with the vehicle  and couldnt rule out wear and tear. Because  of 
Ref: DRN78367842the issues experienced in the first year he thought that the offer of £75 compensation should 
be increased, and recommended Lex Autolease  pay compensation of £250.
Lex Autolease didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that Mr S entered the 
agreement in 2015 and most of the issues were in the first year. It said it wasnt  fair that a 
complaint was then raised at the end of the agreement  and it was expected  to compensate  
for the issues then.  It said Mr S was kept fully mobile while  repairs  took place and thought its 
offer of £75 was reasonable. It said any settlement amount should  be offset against the 
outstanding balance on Mr S account. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complaint is about the quality of the vehicle he leased  under a hire agreement  with Lex 
Autolease. He asked  that this be taken into account when he received an invoice for the 
excess mileage at the end of his hire agreement. The issue of the application of the excess 
mileage charge has been investigated by the BVRLA and findings issued and so I havent 
considered this further. I have considered the issue Mr S raised about the quality of the 
vehicle he hired.
Mr S hired a new vehicle  in September 2015  and therefore it would  be reasonable to expect 
it to be free from faults including  minor defects for a reasonable amount of time. However,  
Mr S has provided evidence of issues with the vehicle that resulted in him needing to return 
to the dealer for repairs.  Lex Autolease accepted that Mr S needed to return the vehicle  five 
times in the first year.  
Mr S has provided further information about the issues experienced in the first year and 
these include the fuel pump needing  to be replaced in January 2016, number plates falling 
off and the boot struts failing. I do not have further details of the repairs undertaken but 
based on the nature of the issues and when they arose, I find it more likely than not that 
these issues were  due to faults  that were present or developing at the point of supply, or that 
the parts that failed werent  sufficiently durable.  It was also identified that the vehicle had the 
wrong registration plates and so this had to be remedied. The issues  were remedied, and I 
understand that Mr S was provided with alternative  transport  while  his vehicle was in for 
repair. 
Mr S continued to experience issues with the car through the lease  term but given the 
mileage he had driven  I note he had driven  almost  50,000  miles by October  2017  - and the 
issues raised, I do not find without further  evidence I can say the subsequent issues were  
due to faults rather than wear  and tear.
Given the number  of issues Mr S experienced in the first year,  I find it reasonable that Mr S 
is compensated for the distress  and inconvenience  he was caused.  Lex Autolease offered 
£75 compensation  but given the number of issues, the times Mr S needed to return the car 
and the inconvenience dealing with these issues would have caused him, I find £75 isnt 
enough. I understand that Mr S was kept mobile while the repairs  were being  carried out, but 
I still find he would have  needed to spend a significant amount of time dealing  with a range 
of issues which shouldnt  have been experienced on a new vehicle. Given this I find the 
recommendation made by our investigator  of £250 is reasonable.
Ref: DRN78367843If Mr S still has an outstanding balance with Lex Autolease I find it reasonable that this 
amount is offset  against that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I find that Mr S was caused  significant 
inconvenience by the issues he experienced in the first year of hiring the vehicle and that 
total compensation of £250  is fair to reflect this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7836784