K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the valuation  report prepared for their mortgage 
lender, Santander  UK Plc, on a new-build  property.  Mr P has dealt  with the complaint 
throughout. He is asking  for compensation for the loss  of valuation.
background
In 2016 Mr and Mrs P bought a new-build property from a developer. The purchase price 
was £600,000 and, on the advice of a mortgage  broker, Mr and Mrs P borrowed £325,995  
(including fees) towards the purchase  price from Santander. Mr and Mrs P also had the 
benefit of a Government Help to Buy (HTB)  loan of £240,000 arranged through the 
developer. The purchase (and the mortgage to Santander) completed in June 2017.
In February 2019  Mr P contacted Santander  because he was unhappy about the valuation of 
his property. He thought  it was incorrect and that the property had been  over-valued to 
support a HTB scandal which  Mr P claims to have identified.
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that he believes  there has been  a conspiracy between  the 
developer, the HTB agency and surveyors acting for various mortgage lenders to fix an 
artificial price for the properties in the development in order that the developer can loot 
government funding . His basis for saying  this is that other properties which he says are 
different from his, and which were  sold on different  dates, are all valued at the same price  he 
paid for his house. He describes it as a well-choreographed  scandal by lenders and 
developers to exploit  the taxpayer and to take advantage of first-time buyers.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint and so Mr P brought  it to us, where it was considered 
by an adjudicator. She didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong. It had appointed  an 
independent surveyor  to carry out the valuation and she was satisfied Santander was 
entitled to rely on his expertise.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators findings  and so the matter  is now with me for a review  
and final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  Ive condensed the background 
to this matter into somewhat less detail than the case put forward  by Mr P. No discourtesy is 
intended by this  it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service  and my 
role in it.
I confirm Ive read and considered everything Mr P and Santander have provided. If I dont 
mention something, its not because  Ive not thought about  it. Rather,  its that I dont consider 
it to be material to the complaint. 
In this regard, I will explain at the outset that the Financial Ombudsman Service  isnt a 
regulator. So although Ive noted all the points Mr P has made about what he perceives to be 
regulatory breaches by Santander, thats  a matter for the regulator  the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA)  rather  than us, the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
Ref: DRN74242852I will also explain here that the surveyor is not an employee of Santander but an independent 
professional. As such, he is not subject  to the jurisdiction  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Likewise, the developer and the HTB provider arent subject to our rules either.
We also dont investigation criminal  acts.  Whilst Ive noted the points Mr P has made about 
the Fraud Act, this isnt something which is covered by our rules. If Mr P thinks he and Mrs P 
have been the victims  of a crime, theyll need to refer that to the police.
So although  Ive noted Mr Ps questions  about  how the FCA adjudicator  reached her 
findings, I must clarify  that neither the adjudicator  nor I work for the FCA. Were also not 
required to answer  questions put to us by either a consumer or a business; we are 
independent and impartial and carry out our own investigations. If we were to allow either 
party to a complaint to be able to direct the course  of the investigation, our independence  
would be compromised.
I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling about  this matter, but I trust the above will explain why 
this decision is about the valuation prepared  for Santander, and not the wider issues about  
which Mr P is concerned  allegations of regulatory  breaches by Santander, or his concerns 
about third parties  who arent covered by our rules.
The property was offered for sale by the developer  at a price which Mr and Mrs P agreed to 
pay. Their mortgage broker told Santander on the mortgage application that they were 
paying £600,000 for the property and wanted  to borrow £325,995  so a loan-to-value  ratio 
of less than 55%
On 17 November 2016 the property  was valued  by an independent surveyor.  This was a 
basic valuation for mortgage  purposes. I am aware  that, at the time of the valuation the 
property was under construction and the surveyor was unable  to inspect the unit which 
Mr and Mrs P bought. But there is nothing sinister about this. The valuer was entitled to 
determine the future marketability of the property based on his knowledge and experience.
The valuer was required to determine  whether the property gave adequate security for the 
£325,000 Mr and Mrs P wanted  to borrow from the bank. He did not have to decide if the 
purchase price was fair. The surveyor was acting for Santander,  not for Mr and Mrs P. If they 
had wanted confirmation from a surveyor about  whether or not the property was worth what  
they were paying  for it, they would need  to have  instructed their own surveyor.
All Santander was required  to do was to appoint a suitably-qualified professional to carry out 
the valuation.  The surveyor is an Associate  of the Royal  Institution  of Chartered Surveyors 
and so Im satisfied he was suitably-qualified to undertake this valuation.  This means 
Santander was entitled to rely on his expertise.
There was no obligation, as Mr P argues, for Santander to instruct the surveyor  to carry out 
a re-valuation of the property after the original mortgage offer lapsed in May 2017.  
Im sorry  Mr P believes  he has paid more for his property than it was worth.  This is 
something hell need to take up with the developer,  which set the purchase price  Mr and 
Mrs P agreed to pay for it. But Im satisfied Santander has done nothing wrong here. It 
appointed a qualified surveyor to assess whether or not the property was worth  enough  to 
act as security for a mortgage loan of £325,995,  and it wasnt  required to do anything more 
than that.
Ref: DRN74242853I appreciate Mr P believes there has been a conspiracy  involving parties to this transaction 
other than Santander  This is something Mr P will need to pursue with those parties. For the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Santander has done anything  wrong in this case.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7424285