K820x#14Complaint
Ms J complains that she wasnt able to set up a direct debit or standing  order to pay her 
credit card with MBNA Limited which meant she lost the promotional interest rate. Ms J also 
complains that she wasnt  able to access account  information online and that MBNA 
defaulted her credit  card. 
Background
Ms J completed a balance  transfer  from another credit card to her MBNA  account in 
July 2017 on a 12 month interest free basis. Ms J says she completed the direct debit 
mandate and sent it back to MBNA. But the direct  debit  wasnt  set up. Ms J asked for direct 
debit mandates  to be sent to her on numerous  occasions but says they were either not 
received or, when  she sent them back to MBNA, not processed.  
Ms J also tried to set up a standing order from her bank account  with another  business.  But 
the standing order  payments  that were sent didnt have the correct reference  number. 
Ms J says shes  been unable to find the right reference number  as she cant  access  
information about her account and hasnt been sent statements. 
Ms J complained and MBNA issued several responses. MBNA said Ms J had been sent 
direct debit mandates on a number of occasions and given information about how to set a 
direct debit up over the phone. MBNAs  12 January 2018 final response said Ms J had 
correctly logged into her online  account on 2 September 2017  and gave details of her user 
name. MBNA asked  Ms J to get in touch if she still had problems accessing  her account 
online. 
On 28 March 2018 MBNA issued another response  to Ms Js complaint  and said that during 
a call on 26 September 2017  a call handler had offered to set up a direct debit. Ms J didnt  
have her bank details so didnt  complete the process. MBNA also said that it had tried to set 
up a fixed amount direct debit during  a call on 6 December 2017 but Ms J had declined to go 
ahead. MBNA gave  Ms J details of its bank  account and said she needed to use her sixteen 
digit account number  as a reference  in order to set up a standing  order. MBNA refused to 
reinstate the promotional  interest rate and said Ms Js missed payments would be reported 
to the credit  reference  agencies. 
Ms J referred her complaint to our service and it was reviewed by an investigator. She didnt 
uphold Ms Js complaint  and thought  MBNA had treated her fairly. Ms J asked to appeal so 
her complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms J had real problems when trying  to set up a direct debit payment and has had 
trouble with standing  order  payments she sent from her bank account. Ms J also says her 
online account access didnt work  which meant she wasnt able to find the necessary 
information required to set up a standing order. In addition,  Ms J has explained that the 
situation has negatively  impacted her credit file. 
Ref: DRN73664702Whilst I dont doubt  what Ms J tells us, I have to take the evidence provided  by both parties  
into account when  making a decision. In this case,  Ms J says she sent completed direct 
debit mandates  to MBNA but they were  never  acted on. MBNA says it didnt  receive 
completed direct debit mandates from Ms J so simply couldnt set one up for her. 
Where evidence is contradictory or the parties  to a complaint  give differing versions of what  
happened, Ill base my decision  on the balance of probability. That is, what  I consider most 
likely to have happened based on all the available information. In this case, I think  MBNA 
would have records of the direct  debit mandates Ms J sent if it had received  them.  Theres  
nothing to show MBNA received a completed direct debit mandate from Ms J. I dont  know 
what happened to the mandates Ms J sent but, on balance,  Im satisfied MBNA didnt 
receive them. As I dont  think MBNA received the completed mandates it stands to reason it 
couldnt use them to set up a direct debit  payment. 
MBNA can set up direct  debit mandates  over the phone. The call notes Ive seen show  that 
this has been  discussed at various  points. On one occasion Ms J said she didnt have her 
bank details and on another  she decided to set up a standing  order instead. I think  MBNA 
would have set up a direct debit over the phone. 
 
Ms J says she sent payments from her bank  via standing order  but they were  rejected by 
MBNA. Ms J has asked us to confirm this with her bank. I accept that Ms J did try to make 
standing order payments during the period in question. However, Ms J has confirmed that 
she didnt know what reference  to use or where  to find details of her account number. As a 
result, she says MBNA  rejected the payments. I appreciate Ms J has told us that she had 
trouble with her online access. But her 16 digit credit card number would have been shown 
on her card as well. And the standing order payment system is largely automated so 
payments that dont  contain the right reference  are rejected by the system and sent back.  I 
appreciate Ms J tried to set up a standing  order  but as she didnt use the correct reference  
MBNA was correct to reject the payments. 
MBNA has sent us systems information  to show Ms Js online access was never suspended. 
Ms J successfully registered online on 2 September 2017 and accessed  her account. Ms J 
tried to register again on 12 December 2017  but as she already had online account  access  
the process didnt  complete. MBNAs  call notes  show Ms J called on 12 December 2017 to 
complain and ask for her 0% promotional rate to be reinstated.  I understand Ms J feels  shes 
been trapped because  she cant access her online account information  in order to get the 
correct reference.  But the information Ive seen shows there was no issue with MBNAs  
online system  and that it didnt suspend or block Ms Js access.  
The credit card ultimately defaulted  because payments werent made. I can see Ms J had 
problems setting up automatic payments but she made several card payments  over the 
phone. I think  its reasonable to say there were other ways Ms J could pay while the 
problems she was experiencing setting  up automatic  payments was looked at. I also note 
that Ms Js monthly credit card statements were posted from July 2017 until 
September 2017, when the preference was switched to online.  MBNA started sending 
statements in the post from 12 December 2017  after talking to Ms J. Im satisfied MBNA has 
regularly sent statements  and clear information about how to make  payments. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms J but I havent found anything to show  MBNA has made a mistake 
or treated her unfairly. The adverse credit  information  MBNA has reported reflects the 
arrears and default. I havent  found that MBNA  received the mandates  Ms J sent or that it 
provided misleading information about how to set up a standing  order.  Im satisfied MBNAs 
Ref: DRN73664703decision to withdraw  the promotional  rate was reasonable and in line with the account terms. 
I know Ms J feels MBNA prevented her from accessing her online account, but I havent 
been persuaded thats the case.  Taking everything  Ive seen into account, Im satisfied 
MBNA has dealt with Ms Js complaint fairly so Im not telling it to do anything else.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7366470