K820x#14complaint
As part of his car insurance, Mr S has breakdown  assistance cover underwritten  by Acromas  
Insurance Company Limited. Hes unhappy with what happened following a breakdown.  
background
Mr Ss breakdown cover is underwritten by Acromas, but the breakdown  itself was dealt with 
by RAC  under  a delegated authority. So I will refer to both Acromas  and RAC  in my decision.
Mr S broke down on 14 May 2019  the pollution alert warning light and engine management 
light were lit up, and his car lost power. RAC  attended and cleaned the connection to the air 
flow sensor. They cleared  the fault codes so they could carry out a road test and see if the 
codes reappeared. The fault didnt  happen again  after the road test. RAC advised Mr S to 
take his car to a dealership for further  investigation  because they suspected there was a 
problem with the air flow sensor.
Mr S has complained that RAC deleted the fault codes  on his car, and these  were  needed to 
find out what repairs needed to be done to his car. Hes also complained  that the fault codes 
RAC provided to him are incomplete, as the codes for the ABS breaking system are missing.
RAC have  said they wouldnt  normally delete codes if a car was still under a manufacturers  
standard warranty. Mr S has said his car was under  warranty,  but RAC didnt ask him about 
this. Hes also complained  that RAC wouldnt tow his car to a garage  for repair.
Our investigator found RAC had acted fairly.  He thought it was reasonable the codes were 
cleared so a road test could be carried out. This way RAC could see if the car had been 
repaired at the roadside. He also though it was reasonable that RAC supplied  Mr S with the 
fault codes so he could give these to his garage. So he didnt recommend RAC should  do 
anything.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think it was fair and reasonable that the 
investigator had accepted  the word of RAC  and hadnt referred  the matter to an independent 
engineer. He also said RAC were negligent  in not asking him about any warranty  and they 
had no right to clear the fault codes without  his permission.
After receiving the investigators view, Mr S suffered a further breakdown  while driving  in 
Hungary. Because of this he had to extend  his stay and pay for repairs, at a total cost of 
around £900. He believes  that, if the fault codes hadnt been  cleared, his garage couldve 
repaired his car and this second breakdown wouldnt have happened. So he would like RAC  
to cover the costs he incurred because of the second breakdown.
The investigator updated his view because of this new information. He said it didnt change 
his mind that RAC had acted fairly during the first breakdown. But it was also agreed that 
these new concerns would be considered as part of this complaint. The investigator also 
said RAC would  review the situation if Mr S could  provide a report  from a dealership 
confirming that the removal of the codes impacted his car being repaired.
Ref: DRN70418882Mr S thinks  the investigator  has missed  his point  the fault codes shouldnt  have  been  
deleted by RAC regardless of the warranty, they should only have been deleted  by the 
repairer. Hes provided an email saying the fault codes should ideally have been  left in the 
car, but he cant provide a report from the dealership  because  they are currently  being  
investigated as well due to not doing  the fault check responsibly enough.
Mr S also has wider  concerns about  the RACs practices, and he understands that we cant 
investigate these. Hes been  advised he would need  to raise these issues  with the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also seen that Mr Ss concerns about 
the Financial Ombudsman Service not being  qualified engineers  was raised as a separate  
complaint to the Chief Ombudsman. This complaint has already been answered, so I wont  
address it further  within my decision.
The basic  facts of this complaint  arent  disputed  RAC attended a breakdown and, in trying 
to fix Mr Ss car at the roadside,  they deleted the fault codes. But they provided  Mr S with 
these codes so he could take them to his garage. 
Mr Ss car was under  an extended  warranty,  not a standard manufacturers warranty,  and 
Ive seen evidence  of this. Because of the age of his car (between 9 and 10 years old at the 
time of the breakdown)  it was reasonable for RAC  to conclude that there wasnt  a 
manufacturers standard warranty in place. Mr S says RAC never asked  him if there  was a 
warranty, but he also says he told them there  was.
But I agree  with Mr S. The existence  of a warranty or otherwise is not the point,  its whether  
RAC acted  reasonably in deleting the fault codes. And I think  they did.
Ive seen a copy  of RACs breakdown log, which confirms the fault they found and the 
actions they took.  They  cleaned the connection to the air flow sensor  and needed to reset 
the fault codes  to see if it had fixed the problem or if the fault reoccurred. I think  it was 
reasonable for them to do this as it was the only way to know if the roadside repair was 
effective. If RAC had explained  this to Mr S, and told him theyd recorded the fault codes so 
his garage could review  them, I think its likely Mr S wouldve agreed to this course of action 
as there  was no other way to assess whether the roadside repair  had been  successful.
Mr S has provided an email from his garage saying ideally [RAC] should have left the codes 
in memory. What this doesnt  say is that not doing  so would invalidate the warranty or would 
mean the car couldnt  be repaired even though the garage had a record  of the codes. Mr S 
has been given  the opportunity to provide something  from the garage  or from the warranty 
supplier to say the codes  being deleted meant that a repair  couldnt be done. But he hasnt 
supplied anything. So I dont think ideally  can be read to mean  must  have done otherwise 
the car cant  be repaired. 
Ref: DRN70418883Ive also seen an email  from the garage  dated 12 July 2019, saying ABS fault code seems 
not to be on there and yet I did have the light appear and warning alert on the screen. I think 
the engineer might  of [sic] removed this code. This email  is dated after the invoice for the 
repairs that were done in Hungary. So I cant say RAC definitely removed the ABS fault code 
and didnt give this to Mr S  the ABS fault code couldve been removed by the Hungarian 
garage when they completed the repairs to Mr Ss car.
Breakdown recovery is there to provide roadside  assistance. Its not there to provide a 
permanent fix to all faults. After attending Mr Ss car, RAC were able to get it driveable,  and 
offered to follow him to his garage in case the fault reoccurred. But Mr S didnt take them  up 
on this option.
RAC told Mr S he needed to go to a dealership to have the fault repaired. Mr S has also said 
that the engine management  light was almost always  lit, which would indicate a fault with his 
car. So Im satisfied Mr S was aware  his car had a fault that needed  repairing. These repairs  
were always  his responsibility, so I cant say RAC  should refund him for the cost of the 
repairs that took place in Hungary - if the repairs were covered by his warranty, he should 
take these costs up with the warranty supplier. If they werent covered, Mr S is responsible  
for the costs.
Also, Mr S chose to drive to Hungary even though he felt there  was a fault on his car. It was 
his risk to do this, and he wouldve been aware he could potentially  breakdown  during his 
journey. So I cant  say RAC should cover his additional accommodation costs  because he did 
breakdown again, and the repairs needed to be done before he could  drive  the car home.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Acromas  Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7041888