K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Miss M complain they were mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI)  by 
Leeds Building Society (LBS).
background
Mr F and Miss M took out a mortgage with LBS in 2002. At the same time they each took out 
a PPI policy which would have covered their mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months at a 
time if either  of them couldnt work.  The first six months of their cover was free.
Mr F and Miss M say they didnt realise  they had the PPI. They say they didnt know  theyd 
been given the PPI free for six months  or that they started paying for it afterwards. They say 
they didnt need the cover.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr F and Miss Ms complaint should be upheld.  Mr F and Miss M 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr F and 
Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached  this decision.
Over 17 years has passed since the sale of the mortgage and PPI, so  unsurprisingly   
neither party  has any of the original  documents used during the sales. 
LBS has provided sample copies of the paperwork which was in use at the time. This 
includes a separate  PPI application form. The form offers clear choices about  the PPI, 
including not to take it at all. It makes it clear  the PPI is free for the first six months and that 
there is a charge for it. The mortgage offer they would have received would also have 
included details of the policy selected. It also was included  in the completion statement sent 
later.
At the end of the six month free period Mr F and Miss M would have been sent a letter 
explaining that the free cover was ending. LBS has provided a sample copy of this letter.  It 
explains the cost of the policy and that it will be added to the mortgage repayments.  It also 
explains how to cancel  the policy if required.  
I think its likely that Mr F and Miss M received these documents.  Even  if one of the 
documents had gone astray in the post I think its unlikely that they all did.
So, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr F and Miss M bought  the PPI knowing they had a 
choice about it, even if they cant remember that now.
LBS gave Mr F and Miss M personal recommendations about the policy,  so it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for them. Looking  at Mr F and Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time I think that it was. I say this because:
Ref: DRN79398722Mr F and Miss M were  eligible for the policy  and wouldnt  have been affected by any 
terms which mightve made it more difficult for them to make a successful  claim,  such  
as those related  to existing medical  conditions  or self-employment;
Both Mr F and Miss M had sick pay entitlements from their employers. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition  to this and potentially for longer  than their full sick 
pay would have  lasted;
Mr F and Miss M were  likely entitled  to some redundancy pay. Again, the policy  
would have paid out in addition  to this and for up to a year at a time, leaving  any 
redundancy pay to cover other  uninsured expense;
Mr F and Miss M didnt have  any other  means  to meet their mortgage payments if 
they werent working;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. It was flexible  as it could be cancelled or amended at any time without a 
financial penalty.
Its possible LBS didnt  give Mr F and Miss M all the information they needed about the 
policy. But I dont think even if they had all the information they ideally should have had that 
theyd have made a different decision about buying  the policy,  because it was suitable for 
them in the way Ive already described.  
So I dont  think Mr F and Miss M lost out as a result of anything  LBS might have done wrong
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr F and Miss Ms complaint, so it follows  that Leeds Building  Society  
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7939872