K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2001. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Miss C says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss C has said she wouldnt  have taken  the cover  if shed known it was optional.  And shes  
said it was added without  her knowing or agreeing.  But her card application  had a separate  
section for the account cover and a box to sign if the cover was wanted.  And I think FICL 
likely only added the cover because Miss Cs application indicated  the cover  was wanted. 
With all this in mind, on balance I think its likely  FICL made it clear that Miss C didnt  have to 
take the cover and she chose to take it. But I can understand why she might not remember 
this now, given how long ago she took out her card.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt  have to check the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss C got the information  she needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take the cover - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of 
cover at the time. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances,  Miss C wasnt  affected by 
any of the likely exclusions to or limits  on the cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. And Miss C has told us she didnt have any savings to help with her 
card payments if she lost her job or was too sick to work. Taking everything into account,  I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Miss C off taking the cover.
Ive taken into account all Miss Cs points, including what shes  said about how she wouldnt 
have taken the PPI if it had been discussed  with her. But Ive explained above my reasons 
for thinking Miss C chose  to take the cover, and why I dont think better information wouldve 
changed the decision she made  about it. So for these reasons - and in the light of everything  
else Ive said above - these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
Ref: DRN78941522ombudsman
Ref: DRN7894152