K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed all his accounts 
without giving him a reason.
To settle matters Mr L wants to know why his accounts were  closed.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 27 November 2018, a copy  extract of which  is attached 
and which  forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to uphold  Mr Ls complaint in 
part. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
Neither party has submitted any further information  for my consideration.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for my consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and to resolve  matters  I direct The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay to Mr L £250  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
caused by its mistake.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2018.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75215472Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) closed  all his accounts without giving 
him a reason.
To settle  matters Mr L wants to know why his accounts were closed.
background
Mr L complained  to RBS about the closure  of his accounts. In its final response letter  RBS said 
there was no bank error. Following a review  of Mr Ls banking arrangements  RBS decided it 
would no longer  offer banking facilities to him. Mr L wasnt happy with RBSs  response so he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Following this services  involvement RBS confirmed  that after further investigation Mr Ls 
accounts shouldnt  have been closed and this was an error. So it invited  Mr L to provide 
evidence of the impact this had had on him.
The investigator explained that banks arent  obliged to disclose their reasons for closing  
accounts. But he thought RBSs error would  have caused Mr L quite a severe amount of 
distress and inconvenience  and taken time to resolve  matters. So he recommended that RBS 
should pay £250 compensation.  RBS agrees with this amount  but Mr L doesnt.
Mr L disagrees with the investigators recommendation  and says he should be paid 
compensation for:-
    his inability  to meet his basic needs for eight weeks  being the date his accounts were 
closed until when the investigator gave his opinion;
    one months loss of earnings;
    his time in having to arrange for his financial  obligations to be set up again with the first 
and then the second new bank;
    the impact on his credit rating from excellent to poor
To settle  matters Mr L would like £2,500 compensation so hes asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS accepts it shouldnt have closed Mr Ls accounts.  And I appreciate that this was distressing 
for Mr L and its taken time for him to set up two new accounts and put in place new payment 
arrangements.
We invited Mr L to show  how hed been impacted  by RBSs mistake. But Im not satisfied that 
hes demonstrated any additional financial loss, so I dont consider it appropriate to award any 
further compensation.
Im therefore  of the opinion that the £250 recommended by the investigator fairly 
compensates Mr L. I realise Mr L will be disappointed  by this so Ill explain why.
inability to meet basic needs
Ive not seen  anything  to suggest Mr L was unable  to meet his basic needs for eight  weeks.  Mr L has 
told us that after his first new account was closed  he was able to open a second new account  very 
Ref: DRN75215473quickly. And I can see this was before RBS had closed his existing accounts. Mr L was able to 
withdraw money from the first new account he opened and I can see he deposited  a fairly large 
amount in the second new account.  So I think he was able to access  his funds.
Nor have I seen any information to show  Mr L had to borrow money from his family to fund his 
immediate commitments.  Mr L says his mortgage, rent and phone  payments were all late as a result, 
and most payments had to be made manually using  his debit card. I can see that some payments 
were made by debit  card but I havent seen anything to show Mr L suffered any financial loss as a 
result of late payment.
loss of earnings
Mr L had been off work  for some time prior to his problems with RBS and he says his return  to work 
was delayed by one month due to the stress  caused by RBS closing his accounts.  Based on the 
information provided  by Mr L, he had health issues before RBS told him it was closing his accounts.  
So I cant consider  anything  that happened prior to Mr Ls account being closed  by RBS.
rearranging new financial obligations
I appreciate that setting  up new direct debits and standing orders will have been time consuming 
and, as Ive said above, I can see Mr L made some  payments using  his debit card.
impact on credit rating
Mr L has shown that his credit score was excellent before  the problems  with RBS. Since then I can 
see that theres  been  some downward movement  in Mr Ls credit score. However  the current  score 
has improved from the lowest score in July 2018. But again  I havent seen anything to show Mr L 
has been adversely impacted by this.
my provisional  decision
Unless anything changes my mind, for the reasons given  I intend to uphold this complaint in part. 
And I intend  to direct  The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc.to  pay Mr L £250 compensation  for the trouble 
and upset caused by its mistake.
Ref: DRN7521547