K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mrs B says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold to her with a credit card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs B has asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B says she cant remember  much about  getting  her credit card and she doesnt 
remember agreeing  to any insurance. But Lloyds  told us its computer  records  show Mrs B 
took out her card account in 1997, which is obviously now around 22 years ago. 
So its not surprising  that we no longer have access to Mrs Bs credit  card application form. 
Businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely, but Lloyds did send us an example 
of the type of form that was being  used to apply  for credit cards  around that time.  Ive seen 
quite a few of these  before and what Lloyds  has sent in corresponds with my experience.
Using what I know  and the example form  I think Mrs B would have been given a choice 
about PPI with her new card. I think she would have  ticked  the yes box and would have 
known she didnt have  to if she didnt want to. 
I can also see from copies of her monthly credit  card statements  that PPI was being charged 
on her account. I note these are referred to on the statements as Payments Insurance 
Premium and the costs were shown.  I think its likely that if Mrs B hadnt  agreed to the PPI 
she would  have wanted to know what the charges  were for. 
In short,  I think Mrs B agreed to the PPI and would  have  been able to see it had been  set up 
for her. After 22 years,  I can accept she genuinely doesnt remember this.
Lloyds concedes it may have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this means 
it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mrs Bs situation.  I looked at her 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I can see Mrs B says she was self-employed. We do sometimes  see situations where self-
employed people  have difficulties in making  a claim for unemployment. However Ive looked 
at the particular policy Mrs B was sold and I think she would have been able to make  a 
successful claim.
So I think that Mrs B was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  she would have been caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  The cost was around £0.59 - 
£0.79 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Bs card.  Ive seen nothing  that 
Ref: DRN78376742suggests she would have found these  monthly  charges  unaffordable  and they are broadly in 
line with similar PPI policies Ive seen  from that time. In the event of a successful claim, she 
wouldve been able to have her outstanding balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 
12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition to any other means she already had 
in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was suitable for her.
Lloyds also had to give Mrs B clear information.  After such  a long time I cant confirm  she 
was told everything she shouldve been  told. But for me to uphold  this complaint, Id need to 
think it was more likely that Mrs B didnt consent to the policy or there were other serious  
flaws in the way the policy  was sold. I simply dont have that evidence.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7837674