K820x#14complaint
Mrs Q complains that she was mis-sold  life cover by Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited.  
She says she already  had cover in place   provided by her employer  so didnt need 
additional cover.  
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
The policy was sold by a third party business acting on behalf  of Aviva.   
A potential customer could apply for the policy via telephone, online or in response  to 
postal marketing. Mrs Q completed  an application and sent it back  selecting her level 
of cover.  
The onus  was on Mrs Q to make  sure the cover was suitable   buying additional life 
cover doesnt necessarily mean its unsuitable. 
Neither Mrs Q nor the business  has supplied a copy of the policy  documentation 
thats likely to have  been sent but this was likely  to have explained the nature of the 
policy. Theres no reason  to think Mrs Q wouldnt have received this.  
Mrs Q disagreed with the adjudicators view and made a number of points which the 
adjudicator having considered wasnt persuaded to change his mind.  In  summary, he said:
The third party business  wasnt regulated  to provide advice. 
The product  provider has no record of any business responsible for the sale and Mrs 
Q confirms she completed the application  form and selected  the level of cover  
herself.  
This was a non-advised sale rather than an execution only sale,  and there  was no 
need to for Aviva  to get Mrs Q to sign any documentation  confirming  that advice 
wasnt given.  
The onus  was on Mrs Q to ensure the policy was suitable for her. 
Mrs Q disagreed with the adjudicators view. She maintained she was advised and has 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mrs Q says Im unable to safely conclude that she was advised. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Qs strength  of feeling about this matter.    
Ref: DRN74864922She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs Q and the business,  and reach what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not that the policy 
was taken out on a direct  basis. In other words, it was sold without financial advice.
I think its likely Mrs Q bought the policy of her own volition  in response to marketing 
material either online, in the post or over the telephone and as a result, Im unable to 
consider the suitability  of the policy. I believe the onus  was on her to make  sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances.  
I think its more likely (than not) Mrs Q wouldve received documentation from the business if 
not from the product provider that wouldve made  clear the nature and operation of the 
policy. I think its unlikely she wouldnt have received anything  form either business. So, I 
think its likely shed have been  given cancellation  rights, in case  she changed her mind.
Its not necessary  for Mrs Q to have signed a document confirming that no advice was given.  
Generally I would expect  to find a fact find and suitability letter  from the business where 
advice has been  given. But in this case their absence is another piece  of evidence that 
persuades me that advice was unlikely  to have been given. 
I appreciate Mrs Q will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give her what  
she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7486492