K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him two single premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr S took out a loan with Nationwide in 2002. He was sold a PPI policy in connection with 
this loan. In 2003 Mr S took out another loan. This loan refinanced  the previous loan. He was 
sold PPI again  in connection  with this loan.
The PPI would have  provided Mr S with a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim  if 
he lost his job and for the remaining term of the loan if he was off work sick.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr S complaint about  the policy being mis-sold should be 
upheld. Mr S didnt agree  with our adjudicator and so the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate this isnt the outcome 
Mr S was hoping for but it is of course  up to Mr S whether he chooses to accept or reject my 
decision. I will now explain why Ive reached  this outcome.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr S was eligible for the policies. And based on Mr S 
age, residence and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he would have been 
eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr S that the policies were optional  and needed  his 
consent before they could be applied to his account. Mr S says the policies were sold on the 
phone and that he was told he had to take them out.
Nationwide no longer have a call recording of the sales. However, this is understandable 
given the length of time since the sales. However, they have shown  us a copy of the sales  
script that the representative would have  used in the 2003 sale and this presents the policy 
as optional.
Ive also seen copies  of both of the loan agreements. These  describe PPI as being optional.  
Mr S signed  both of these  documents.
So while I appreciate what Mr S has told us, based  on the evidence available  to me, I cant  
say its more likely that Nationwide told Mr S that he had to take PPI or that it was added  to 
his account without his consent.
Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Mr S. This means they didnt  have to take into account 
Mr S circumstances when selling PPI. So for example, they didnt need  to consider whether 
Ref: DRN76283872the policies were affordable to Mr S or what other existing repayment provisions Mr S had in 
place. But they did have to provide Mr S with clear information about the PPI  in particular 
about the costs,  benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
I can see from the loan agreements that the cost of the policies was set out separately  to the 
loans. They provided Mr S with information about  how much he was borrowing to take PPI, 
the interest to be added to it as well as the monthly  and total cost of PPI. So I think the costs 
of the policies were  made clear to Mr S. I appreciate Mr S has told us that he ended up 
being in financial  difficulties because of Nationwide and has provided us with documents  to 
support he was in financial  difficulties. However, it would have been for Mr S to decide  
whether or not the policies were affordable to him based on the cost information available to 
him at the time of the sales  which as I have  mentioned, was presented clearly. 
I cant say whether Nationwide gave Mr S all of the other information about  benefits and 
exclusions as clearly  as they should have. This doesnt mean in itself that the policies were  
mis-sold as I have to go on and consider  whether better information about these would have 
put Mr S off taking PPI out. And I dont think it would have. 
This is because the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr S existing means and for the 
remaining term of the policy  if he was off work sick. As Nationwide  didnt provide a tailored 
recommendation to him, it would have been  for Mr S to decide whether or not to take out PPI 
despite his existing means and it appears  that he chose to do so. And I cant see that Mr S 
was affected by the exclusions and restrictions in the policies which would have made  it 
difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policies.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr S these 
PPI policies. Which  means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to  
Mr S.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI sold to Mr S in connection with the 
second loan (2003) because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nationwide got a high level of commission  and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  
Nationwide didnt  tell Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what Nationwide needs to do (in respect of the PPI taken out with the loan in 2003)
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr S any extra interest  
Mr S paid because of that.
Ref: DRN76283873Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr S the extra he paid each  month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr S paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide  should also pay Mr S 8%* simple  interest  
on the extra paid each month  (15% on payments before  April 1993). 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7628387