K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  taken out to protect a mortgage  with Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading  as Halifax.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2003, borrowing £23,000 over 25 years. 
They took out a further advance for £11,500  in 2004. In 2003,  when they first took out the 
mortgage, they took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments.  The policy paid 
out if either Mr or Mrs C were unable to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment for 
up to 24 months in any one claim. They cancelled the original PPI and took out a new policy 
at an increased level of cover in 2004 when they took out a further advance.
And in 2003 Mr and Mrs C were also sold some  other insurance policies by Halifax.  They  
were sold a life and critical illness cover (CIC)  policy that paid out £23,000 if they were 
either diagnosed  with certain illness or passed away.  This was a level term assurance 
(LTA) policy that paid out a set amount  during the period of cover.  In 2004  the level of 
cover was increased to £33,955.
Mr and Mrs C have said they felt pressured into taking out the policies and thought  they had 
to take them  to get the mortgage.  They  also said they had sufficient other ways to make  their 
loan repayments,  so they didnt need  PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  about  PPI should be upheld, but Mr 
and Mrs C disagreed. After then Halifax offered to pay something to them. It said it was 
prepared to offer the difference in price  on the life and CIC policies as if a decreasing term 
assurance (DTA) policies had been  set up instead  of a LTA policies  DTA policies paid out 
an amount that decreased over time as the mortgage was repaid. 
As Mr and Mrs C thought the policies were mis-sold the complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision.
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments, I issued a provisional decision 
as I wanted to give Mr and Mrs C the chance  to see my thoughts before I came to a final 
decision.
I first considered whether Mr and Mrs C were given a fair choice to take out the insurances.
I noted that Halifax said that Mr and Mrs C took out the insurances at the same  time that 
they applied for their mortgages in 2003  and 2004,  both of them in a branch. There wasnt  a 
recording of what was said or discussed,  so I thought it wasnt entirely  clear  what Mr and 
Mrs C were told about the insurances  at the time. I said I had to decide what I thought was 
most likely to have happened, based  on what both Mr and Mrs C and Halifax said happened  
as well as looking at all of the documents available from the time.
I hadnt seen a copy of the form Mr and Mrs C would have filled in to apply for the mortgage 
in 2003. But I had seen some of the documents that were prepared at the time.  I saw the 
mortgage instructions  that were sent to Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors in 2003  and noted that set 
out some  of the mortgage conditions. And I noted it wasnt said it was a condition of the 
mortgage to take out any insurance through Halifax.
Ref: DRN73130802I saw a copy of the offer for the further  advance in 2004. Again it wasnt  said that there was 
any specific insurances that Mr and Mrs C had to take out. And on the personalised 
illustration, prepared for Mr and Mrs C before the 2004 offer was made,  there was a section 
dealing with insurances. It said there were no insurances that Mr and Mrs C had to take out, 
but it described PPI as an optional insurance. 
On balance I thought the insurances  were  discussed and presented  as optional products. I 
said that because  the insurances  were described as optional in the personalised illustration 
and I couldnt  see that there was anything saying Mr and Mrs C had to take the insurances 
to get the mortgage. So I thought  Mr and Mrs C chose to take them out. This didnt fit with 
what they said but I wasnt surprised that their recollections werent clear as they took out 
the insurances several years ago and memories  naturally fade with time.
As Halifax said it advised Mr and Mrs C to take out PPI in both 2003 and 2004, it had to 
make sure the PPI policies were suitable  for their needs. Both sales took place relatively 
close in time to each  other and Mr and Mrs C hadnt  said their circumstances changed in the 
time between the sales. So I assumed their circumstances were broadly the same for both 
sales. I thought  the recommendations were  suitable  for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the PPI and didnt seem to be affected by any of the 
exclusions in the policies. 
Mr C told us he had discretionary sick pay from his employer, so it wasnt certain  he 
would have got anything if unable to work.  Mrs C said she had six months of full sick 
pay, followed by six months of half sick pay. But either way, the policies could have 
paid out for longer and I thought this could  have been a benefit when their sick pay 
reduced or ended.
Mr and Mrs C said they had some  savings, but PPI would  have paid out on top of any 
savings, so I thought  they could have been  used for other  living expenses at what  
could have been a difficult time.
Mr and Mrs C hadnt said that they had any other  ways  they could  have met the 
repayments, so I thought PPI gave them valuable  protection.
It appeared Mr and Mrs C could afford the policies at the time and I hadnt  seen 
anything showing that they had a need  to keep  their costs down.
I also considered whether  the life and CIC policies were suitable  for Mr and Mrs Cs needs 
as Halifax had recommended  they take these out. I noted that I couldnt  see that Mr and 
Mrs C had any existing cover in place that would have paid out a lump sum to pay off their 
mortgage if they passed away or suffered from a serious illness. I understood they had 
dependents at the time of the sale, so I thought they would have thought having life and CIC 
insurance could  have been  a benefit to their family  and each other.
But Mr and Mrs C were protecting the outstanding  balance of their mortgage  that went down 
over time. So I didnt think the recommendation to take a LTA policy was suitable. Instead I 
thought Mr and Mrs C should have been recommended  to take out DTA policies instead. 
That would have  been better  suited  to their needs and would have cost less.
I also thought  about whether Mr and Mrs C had been given information about the insurances 
that was clear, fair and not misleading.  That was because Halifax  had to give them enough  
information so that they could decide  for themselves whether to take out the insurances. 
I looked at the documentation that was provided and I couldnt be certain  they were given all 
the information about the policies they needed.  But I thought Mr and Mrs C would have 
Ref: DRN73130803bought the PPI policies  even if they had all of the information when they signed  up for them. 
And I thought they would have still bought life and CIC policies, albeit slightly  different ones.
I said that as they werent caught  by any restrictions in the PPI policy and would  have been  
eligible for the full benefits. I found that the PPI policy was suitable and affordable  for them 
and they chose to take it out. So I didnt think that knowing more about  the cost and benefit 
would have put Mr and Mrs C off taking it out.
But I thought Mr and Mrs C would  have taken out a different type of life and CIC policies if 
they knew more  about it. I thought they would have bought ones that paid out a reducing 
amount over time.  So I set out how I thought  Halifax needed to put right what  had gone  
wrong.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed with what I said and that it 
would pay Mr and Mrs C once the final decision  was accepted.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said they remember coming away from the meetings they 
had with Halifax feeling pressured  into taking  out policies they didnt want. They  also asked 
whether they should get back  any of the commission Halifax might have got when they sold 
the policies.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as I came  to in my provisional  decision.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C have  said they recall feeling  pressured into taking out the 
PPI. Ive thought  about this carefully  and Ive taken into account  that pressure is a very 
subjective thing.  Halifax recommended  the policies to them, so its just as likely they were 
told they should consider taking them out rather than they had to. But based on all the 
available evidence I cant say they werent given a real choice whether to take out the 
insurances.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs C some of the commission  
they paid back. They  have asked  whether  a Supreme Court  ruling  means they are entitled to 
anything more. The Supreme Court  ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
So Halifax  doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs C anything for the PPI policies they took out, but 
it does need to pay something for the life and CIC policies.
what Halifax needs to do put things right
Ref: DRN73130804Halifax needs to pay to Mr and Mrs C the different in cost between what  they paid for their 
LTA policies (for life and CIC cover) and what they would have paid for equivalent DTA 
policies set over the same  term. I think this would put them in the position, so far as is 
possible, that theyd be in now if theyd  been  appropriately advised.
To work out how much  compensation is payable, Halifax should work out the premiums Mr 
and Mrs C would have  needed to pay for decreasing  policies set up with the same starting 
level of cover over the same term. This should be based on their age and health  in 2003 and 
2004 and the premium  rates applicable  at the time.  I currently  think it should then pay 
compensation of A + B, where:
A = the cost of each overpayment,  calculated as the difference  between  the premium 
Mr and Mrs C paid and the premium for a decreasing policy, while  the policy  was in 
force; and
B = simple interest  at 8% per year on each overpayment from the date it was paid to 
the date compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable  on the interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc in part and I direct it pay the compensation described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7313080