K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has made a number  of errors in 
handling his pension. 
background 
Mr W has a pension account with Aviva and after it introduced a new computer system he 
says he has identified three issues.
when he views his transactions these dont  add up to the stated crystallisation  value,
it failed to allocate two dividend payments, 
it has miscalculated his lifetime allowance and based its calculations on an incorrect  
figure and
it has prevented him from seeing  historic documentation.
Aviva replied and said that it acknowledged  the potential discrepancies  around  the amounts 
and percentages  and it asked the platform provider to issue a corrected statement. It also 
commented on the dividends without addressing his complaint and it paid him £150 to reflect 
any inconvenience he may have been  caused. 
Mr W brought his complaint to this service  and it was considered by one of our investigators 
who recommend it be upheld in part. Aviva said it had reviewed Mr Ws transaction history 
and it confirmed the figures it used were correct. It said that one dividend hadnt  been paid 
on time and agreed  to pay him interest  of £0.91. Aviva  also said that a second payment was 
outstanding, but as this resulted in added units rather  than cash he hadnt  lost out. 
It agreed to pay him an additional £150 compensation and to talk him through his transaction 
history.
Mr W spoke with a representative of Aviva and says he was told that the information  it had 
provided to this service  addressed only income and not crystallisation issues.  He also asked 
that his query regarding  the calculation of the lifetime allowances  be addressed.  
subsequently it issued a further statement which was incorrect.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I noted that Mr W had asked that Aviva admits it had serious issues  with the new software it 
introduced, set out what it is doing  to address those issues  and commit to demonstrate  the 
current value of his investments  has not been  adversely affected by errors  in its software. 
I made  it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual 
complaints and to award redress where  appropriate. I do not perform  the role of the industry 
regulator and I do not have the power  to make rules for financial businesses. Therefore I 
explained I was only able to address the specifics of Mr Ws complaint and not any wider 
ramifications. Such  matters fall within the remit of the regulator.
In essence Mr W wanted  certainty that Aviva would carry out the basic  calculations correctly  
and that it identify any previous errors  and rectified these. For simplicity I addressed  each of 
the issues separately, but I recognised the cumulative effect on Mr Ws trust in Aviva
Ref: DRN71693232Dividends
I saw one of the dividend  payments which should  have  been paid on 5 May 2018 was 
delayed until 29 June  2018. A second was also delayed, but as this was an accumulation  
payment and was added to Mr Ws units so he didnt suffer  any loss. Mr W accepted Avivas 
explanations, but I appreciated his concerns  that the payments were late and that 
undermined his confidence in Avivas  ability to mange his funds properly.
Crystallisation Event Transactions
Mr W was unable to reconcile the individual sales and the proceeds they generated with the 
monthly sum he received. It became clear in a phone call with an Aviva official that the 
information Mr W saw online was different from that available internally  to Aviva staff. Aviva  
agreed to examine this and let him know what had been happening.
Calculation of the Lifetime Allowance
Aviva had made two sets of errors in its calculations of Mr Ws allowance. His annual 
allowance was £1,250,000,  but Aviva had used  a reduced figure  of £1,000,000  on occasions 
and even after our involvement it has perpetuated  the error.  I presumed it to be a relatively 
straightforward matter to ensure the correct  lifetime allowance figure was allocated to Mr W 
and once this was done for it to be maintained. I said this is a key element of any pension 
calculations and could  cause Mr W issues in years to come.
It has also recorded that his regular monthly drawdowns, each of the same  amount, as either 
0.66% or 0.64% of his lifetime allowance. He has asked  how this could be and had received 
no answer. In realty  as a percentage  of £1,250,000 he has identified that the correct  figure  is 
0.53%.
Historic Documentation
After the introduction of the new system Mr W was unable  to view documents and 
correspondence which took place previously. He asked for copies of these documents  for his 
records, but Aviva failed to provide them. It has told this service that these documents  can 
no longer be viewed online,  but it would be possible to retrieve them from historical files.
I asked Aviva to address  the key points set out above and it repeatedly  offered  to do so, but 
was unable to obtain the co-operation of the relevant team. Therefore apart  from offering  to 
supply the historic documentation  it hadnt  properly addressed the crystallisation event 
transactions or the lifetime allowance calculations. Nor had it given any assurances that it 
has addressed the errors such that Mr W could rely on the information in the future. 
I decided to issue a provisional decision and I trusted that Aviva  would  co-operate  in 
resolving the complaint  without further  delay.
I believed it was within Avivas powers  to answer  Mr Ws queries and explain how the errors 
had occurred. However, if it was unable to do so I thought it only reasonable that it appoint  
and pay for an independent expert to carry out investigations in the disputed  issues and that 
he or she report to Mr W. I trusted this would not be necessary, but given Avivas  approach  
so far I thought  such a backstop  was necessary.
Ref: DRN71693233I concluded that I was minded to direct  Aviva to supply a written explanation to Mr W within  
30 working days of the following:
Set out how the crystallisation  sums which make up his monthly payment of 
£6,666.65 are calculated and how the individual disposal  figures  are reconciled with 
each payment of £6,666.65
Recalculate Mr Ws lifetime allowance for each month from the date the new software 
system was installed up to the most  recent payment.
Set out how much  of his lifetime  allowance he has used and how much is left.
Supply paper copies of all archived historic documentation relating to his pension.
Pay Mr W compensation of £500  in total to reflect  the trouble and upset he has 
suffered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I had hoped Aviva would ensure it delivered all that was asked of it and that it would ensure 
the information it used in its calculations  and in the statements sent to Mr W was corrected. 
Mr W expressed his doubts about  Avivas  ability to get his pension details correct. 
Aviva agreed to the payment  of £500  compensation. It also told this service that it was 
working on a solution  and it was having  to undertake a manual recalculation,  but wanted to 
find a permanent solution. It also asked what documentation Mr W wanted.
Subsequently it said that it appeared that the LTA rates were not correct for each  month and 
it had referred the matter  to a technical  colleague.  That was on 28 June and I have received 
no further communication from Aviva and I dont think it fair to Mr W to defer issuing a final 
decision.
I had hoped Aviva would deliver all that was asked of it and that it would ensure the 
information it used  in its calculations and in the statements sent to Mr W was corrected. I 
believe it is within Avivas power  to meet the requirement of my provisional decision if it was 
so minded. It hasnt  responded  to say otherwise, so I can only assume it agrees. Therefore I 
consider my provisional  decision should  stand.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  
to supply a written explanation to Mr W within  30 working  days of his acceptance of this 
decision of the following:
Set out how the crystallisation  sums which make up his monthly payment of 
£6,666.65 are calculated and how the individual disposal  figures  are reconciled with 
each payment of £6,666.65
Recalculate Mr Ws lifetime allowance for each month from the date the new software 
system was installed up to the most  recent payment.
Set out how much  of his lifetime  allowance he has used and how much is left.
Supply paper copies of all archived historic documentation relating to his pension.
Ref: DRN71693234Pay Mr W compensation of £500  in total to reflect  the trouble and upset he has 
suffered.
If it fails to meet the above  direction Aviva  must  appoint and pay for an independent expert 
to carry out investigations in the disputed issues bulleted above  and that he or she report to 
Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7169323