K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Countrywide Principal  Services Limited (Countrywide) mis-sold 
them an interest  only mortgage.
background
In 2006, Mr and Mrs T took out an interest only mortgage for £210,000, for a term of twenty 
years. The mortgage was sold by Countrywide, which  provided  Mr and Mrs T with advice.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs T complain that the mortgage was unsuitable for them because 
they didnt have a repayment vehicle in place and Countrywide didnt give them  any advice 
about one. They think Countrywide should  have advised they take out a capital and interest 
repayment mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T made their complaint after switching their mortgage to capital and interest 
repayment. They say their lender informed them an interest only mortgage was unsuitable 
for them, and they should have had a capital  and interest repayment  mortgage from the 
start.
Countrywide said that it thought Mr and Mrs Ts complaint wasnt one we could consider as it 
thought it had been brought to our service  outside  the time limits set by the regulator.
Another ombudsman  previously issued a decision about our jurisdiction to consider 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. She concluded  that the complaint was one we could consider.
Our investigator then considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and didnt uphold it.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Theres  only limited information available  
to me about the sale of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage,  which is understandable, due to the 
passage of time since the mortgage was taken  out. But it means Ive had to do the best I can 
with the information available  and, where its incomplete or the evidence is contradictory,  
Ive decided what I think is more  likely  than not to have happened. 
Firstly, Ive thought about the time limits  set out by the financial services regulator. Im 
satisfied, in line with the decision made by the previous ombudsman, that Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint is one our service can consider.
As this was an advised sale, Countrywides  adviser needed to give Mr and Mrs T a suitable 
recommendation based on their needs  and circumstances at the time. For me to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, I would need to be able to say that Countrywides  
recommendation was unsuitable for them in their individual circumstances, either because 
some other mortgage would have been  more  suitable  or because they shouldnt have 
gone ahead  at all.
On balance, taking  everything into account,  I dont think that Countrywides recommendation 
was unsuitable.  Ill now explain  why.
Ref: DRN72958382The Mortgage Planner the adviser  completed at the time shows Mr and Mrs T were  renting 
before taking out the mortgage,  so I agree with our investigator its likely they were first time 
buyers. The Mortgage Planner also notes  that Mr and Mrs T didnt wish to use a repayment 
vehicle, and says that the adviser  discussed  all repayment methods with them. Mrs T also 
told our investigator they have now switched to a capital and interest  repayment  basis   so 
the mortgage will be repaid at the end of the term.
On balance, I think its likely there was some discussion at the time between  Mr and Mrs T 
and the adviser  about both interest only and capital repayment mortgages. That such  a 
discussion happened is recorded in the planner. Mrs T doesnt  recall having that discussion, 
but fourteen  years later thats not surprising  and I dont think that means it didnt happen.
The planner also records that Mr and Mrs T didnt want to use a repayment vehicle  which  I 
take to mean a formal vehicle such as an endowment  or other  investment. That doesnt 
mean they had no plans  at all for repaying  the mortgage  such  as switching to repayment 
later. Unfortunately  the more detailed  recommendation letter,  which may have set things out 
in more details  and which they would  have been given at the time, doesnt survive.
Our investigator thought it was likely a capital and interest repayment  mortgage could have 
been affordable  for Mr and Mrs T, based on the information they gave at the time about their 
income and expenditure. And I agree  that may have been the case. But that doesnt mean it 
was the only suitable option for them, nor that an interest only mortgage was unsuitable for 
them. The advisers  recommendation needed  to be based on what  Mr and Mrs T wanted and 
needed at the time,  as well as their circumstances.
Our investigator asked  Mrs T what she could recall about the meeting, and her and Mr Ts 
aims at the time. She said she couldnt  recall much, which is understandable, given the time 
thats passed and the nature of human memory.  Mrs T said she recalled they werent sure 
what they wanted, and would have  wanted  the product an expert  thought was best suited to 
them  so they sought advice from a mortgage adviser. 
The Mortgage Planner showed  Mr and Mrs Ts rent at the time was roughly the same  as the 
monthly payment  on the mortgage  they took out. A capital  and interest repayment mortgage  
would likely  have cost a few hundred pounds a month more.
Given the added costs of home ownership  over renting, such as insurance and 
maintenance, its not unusual for first time buyers to want to keep their mortgage  costs as 
low as possible. Its also not uncommon  for borrowers circumstances to change  during the 
term of a mortgage  its likely their salaries  will rise over time, for instance.
A recommendation for an interest only mortgage,  with the plan of switching to capital and 
interest repayment when  its comfortable to do so isnt inherently unsuitable. And, based  on 
the limited information  available to me, Im unable to say it was unsuitable  based  on Mr and 
Mrs Ts individual circumstances at the time. And so I dont think I can fairly uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN72958383Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  date.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7295838