K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Alliance  Trust Savings  Limited. He says that it delayed  the 
completion of his pension transfer which caused him losses.  
background
Mr L held a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) with Alliance Trust. He sent a request to 
encash his investments which  Alliance Trust received on 19 March  2018. Mr L wished to 
make a cash transfer to another provider.  Ill refer to the new provider as X. 
Alliance Trust  began to sell his investments on the following day and settled them  on 23 
March 2018. Alliance Trust says that funds were drawn from Mr Ls SIPP account on 18 April 
2018 and following authorization, they should have reached X by 25 April 2018.  Alliance 
Trust issued the transfer confirmation letter to X on 27 April 2018.
On 4 May 2018  Mr L complained to Alliance Trust as he felt it had not provided X with all the 
details X required  in order to invest his money. So he felt that his money was out of the 
markets and not invested from 23 April until 15 May 2018. As a result he says he has lost 
out on growth of around £6,600. 
Alliance Trust  responded to the complaint with a final response  letter explaining that the 
transfer was completied  in 29 working days.  It said that this was inside its normal  timescale 
of 90 working days. Alliance Trust also explained  that they had sent X the drawdown  details 
on 1 May 2018.  However, X had asked them for the details again  and so they reissued them  
on 14 May 2018. Alliance  Trust  didnt  uphold the complaint  but sent Mr L a £25 voucher as a 
gesture of goodwill.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it shouldnt be upheld. He 
explained that pension transfers  can be complicated and take varying  times to complete 
depending on the nature  of the transfer.  In this case, as the money was initially  invested, 
Alliance Trust  had to encash  Mr Ls investments before they could transfer the monies  to X. 
Alliance Trust  received the transfer  request on 19 March 2018 and the funds were sent to X, 
which reached them on 23 April 2018.  Although  some information was missing,  Alliance 
Trust sent X the final paperwork which arrived  on 14 May 2018.  X could invest  Mr Ls money 
from that point. 
The adjudicator added  that the pension transfer commenced on 19 March  2018 and it was 
completed on 14 May 2018.  The process took 8 weeks, or around 37 working days. Alliance 
Trust said that this was within industry guidelines and the adjudicator  agreed.  
The adjudicator noted that Mr Ls wife had a similar  complaint. He noted in that case Alliance 
Trust had offered to compensate for investment loss but he explained that he could not 
comment on those facts  and had considered this complaint on its own merit and no two 
complaints are identical.
Mr L didnt agree and felt that Alliance Trust should compensate him for the loss he feels  he 
has suffered.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
.
Ref: DRN73101092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  the evidence, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as the adjudicator. I dont uphold  this complaint.
Im satisfied that when  the transaction is considered as a whole, it was completed in a 
reasonable time period.  
Its true that there was some deficiency with the information Alliance Trust provided to X 
initially. X raised a query for detailed information  about the history  of Mr Ls pension. In 
particular, it needed  to have the dates of crystallisation of his pension.  It appears that 
Alliance Trust  didnt  have  the full details of the crystallizing events and it had to contact the 
previous pension provider. 
This additional action does  appear to have  delayed matters a little and I have considered  Mr 
Ls point that had Alliance  Trust completed the original  transfer  correctly,  and completely 
when it received his pension  it wouldnt have  been necessary for it to make this additional 
enquiry. There is some  strength to his point, but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to uphold this complaint  just because one step in the actual transfer  ought  to have been 
unnecessary which  may have reduced  the time taken overall. Thats  because  Im satisfied 
the transfer as a whole  was completed  in a reasonable time.  A transaction  like this will 
always comprise of a number of individual steps or tasks. I dont think its appropriate to 
consider each and every  step thats  been taken and uphold a complaint  if there  is any 
unavoidable delay in any single step.  I think its fair to take a broader view and consider the 
transaction as a whole.
I do note that Alliance Trust upheld a similar complaint by Mr Ls wife. I can only echo what 
the adjudicator  said and repeat that we have not considered that complaint, and every 
complaint has to be assessed  on its own facts  and on its own merits.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7310109