K821x#15complaint
Mrs O has complained  that Timothy  James  and Partners  Ltd (referred  to from now on 
as Timothy  James  or the business)  gave  her unsuitable  advice  in 2009  to invest  part of 
her pension  provision  into two Unregulated  Collective  Investment  Schemes.  These  
were  EEA Life Settlements  ("EEA")  and Quadris  Environmental  ("Quadris")  funds.
Mrs Os husband has also brought a complaint about advice he received to invest in the same 
funds, which  I am dealing with separately, although I have  referred to Mr O occasionally in this 
decision for context.
Mrs O has not complained  about  the advice  that she received  to transfer  her existing  
pension  provision  to a new Self-Invested  Personal  Pension  (SIPP).
background 
The background to the complaint is set out in detail in my provisional  decision issued  on     
27 November 2019. A copy  of the provisional  decision is attached  to, and forms part of, this 
my final decision.
Mrs O responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted my findings  and had 
nothing further  to add.
The business did not agree with my findings  and made a significant detailed submission on       
18 December 2019.
In its response the business made  three main points:
The suitability of the UCIS investments  should be considered  in light of Mr and      
Mrs Os overall  financial  position.
The suitability and risk rating of the funds at the time. 
The business referred to the fact that the advice letter had been headed Retirement and 
Investment Planning. It said the advice covered much more than the investment of a small 
portion of the Mr and Mrs O pension  provisions into UCIS. The letter  and advice set out 
various ways that £500,000 of Mr and Mrs Os £750,000 cash could be used.  Each of the 
options was part of an overall retirement  planning  piece that included pensions.
The business says the advice took into account  the overall finances of Mrs O and her 
pension provision of £74,550. The investment in the UCIS funds of about £15,000 was a 
very small  percentage  of her overall  wealth even if it was 20% of her pension provision.
The business says that the cash held on deposit by Mr and Mrs O should  therefore be 
taken into account  when assessing the percentage of Mrs Os assets that were to be 
invested in UCIS funds.  It says assuming £500,000  on deposit was split equally between Mr 
and Mrs O and the cash  ISA investment of £50,000 was also split equally  Mrs O would 
have held total assets of around £275,000. She also had ISA investments  that were  worth 
£51,900 and had pension provision of £74,550. The £14,916 investment in UCIS funds 
would represent  3.7%  of Mrs Os available assets of £401,450.  The business argues this 
would have been a suitable  investment  for her.
Ref: DRN77800882The business referred to other decisions that have been  issued  by this service that refer to 
the whole  of the individuals assets being taken into account and not just the monies  held in 
the SIPP. 
The business noted that our adjudicator  had agreed with it and had concluded that the 
investments in UCIS funds were not unsuitable.  It was only when I looked at the complaint  
after Mrs O had rejected  the adjudicators view that I stated I was minded to uphold the 
complaint.
The proposed investments  in the two UCIS  funds were recommended  to ensure the SIPP  
held a diverse range of investments. It believed at the time of advice  that the EEA 
investment was marginally riskier than investing  in cash. At the time of advice it was not a 
fund thought to have  a high degree  of volatility, illiquidity or both. It also believed  that the 
problems with the Quadris Fund  were not foreseeable.
The business has argued that it is very difficult to find investments that are not correlated 
with the market and the two UCIS funds it recommended did just that at the time the 
investments were made.  
The two funds selected were thought to meet the requirements of Mrs O at the time they 
were recommended.
The business still believes  that the complaint from Mrs O should be rejected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I considered that this complaint should be upheld.  A 
copy of this document is attached to, and forms part of, this my final decision.
In particular I set out that UCIS  are unregulated. This, and the fact that they cant  be freely 
promoted, shows that UCIS,  by their very nature, are thought of as having a higher risk. I 
stated that the regulators  view is that UCIS are generally regarded as being  characterised 
by a high degree  of volatility, illiquidity or both. This means theyre usually thought  of as 
speculative investments. In practice  UCIS are rarely considered as suitable for more than a 
small percentage of an investors  portfolio.
Mrs O accepted my provisional  decision.
The business did not accept the provisional decision and has made two key arguments in 
its response to Mrs Os complaints. I will address these points in turn.
1.The investments  that should be taken into account when considering  the suitability 
of the EEA and the Quadris investment
In my provisional decision I stated that these investments should be considered  as a 
percentage of the assets that had been  invested in the SIPP. The £14,916 invested in the 
SIPP is around 20% of the approximately £74,550 that was transferred to the SIPP. I thought  
that was a high proportion  of her overall investment,  invested in high-risk  funds and was not 
suitable for her, given her attitude to risk. The business disagreed and argued that the 
Ref: DRN77800883investments should  be considered as, either a percentage of Mrs Os total pension provision, 
or her total assets, in which case the percentage figure would be much  lower than the 20% 
figure that I had suggested.
I have therefore  looked at the initial advice that was given to Mrs O in 2009.  The letter 
containing the recommendation, dated 25 October 2009, indicates the adviser was asked to 
look at Mr and Mrs Os pension provision and the possibility of investing £500,000  of their 
cash. The advice  was divided into two main sections, the advice about  the pension  provision 
for Mr and Mrs O and a section about  what to do with the £500,000 cash  that was available 
to invest. There was some indication  that the remaining cash, other than the £500,000 
available to invest, was earmarked for other  projects. So I dont think its likely  that the 
remainder of Mr and Mrs Os cash was specifically considered when the adviser made his 
recommendations. That is, while the adviser  was aware of this cash, knowing it was likely  to 
be used for other projects means  its unlikely he made his recommendations thinking that 
this cash would still be on deposit and could be considered a low-risk asset, the holding of 
which could mean  Mrs O was willing to take a greater risk with the remainder of her money. 
Mrs O hadnt asked  for advice about this money and the adviser acknowledged  it was 
earmarked elsewhere  and there  is no indication in the recommendation letter that it factored 
in the advisers  thoughts when constructing a portfolio for Mrs Os other money.  As such,  I 
think it would  be artificial  to consider whether  the recommendation was suitable, by importing  
other assets into my consideration,  when they do not appear to have been part of the 
advisers thinking at the time.  
Mrs O did ask for advice on what to do with her pension  provisions, which  had a total value 
of around £74,550  and she asked  for advice  about how to invest  her share  of the £500,000  
she held in cash with her husband. In the section dealing with how to invest  the £500,000 
cash, the adviser made various  suggestions,  including investing the whole £500,000 into a 
portfolio similar to the one proposed for Mr Os pension  investments. As the adviser  was 
considering options to invest this money, including into a similar portfolio to the pension  
provision, I think its unlikely the business  is correct when it suggests the adviser  made the 
recommendations for the pension provision  thinking  that Mr and Mrs O would be retaining a 
large amount of cash on deposit and this would lessen the overall risk of the portfolio he was 
recommending. Nothing  in the recommendation letter dated 25 October 2009 suggests  to 
me the adviser  was recommending a pension portfolio  where the overall risk of the 
investments in it was considered to be lessened  by holding  large  amounts of cash,  or other  
assets. Nor does it seem  the adviser  understood that Mr and Mrs O would be likely to retain 
large cash holdings,  since the adviser  was being  asked to find somewhere to invest  
£500,000 and the remaining cash was earmarked  for other projects.
In its response to the Financial Ombudsman Service dated  18 December 2019 the 
business noted that if 50% of the cash in deposit (or £250,000) plus 50% of the investment  
in ISAs plus £51,900 Mrs O held in ISAs plus the retirement provision of £74,550 were  
allowed for as potential retirement  provision the £14,916 invested in UCIS would represent 
just 3.7%  of Mrs Os provisions. The business did not consider that this was unreasonable  
given Mrs Os recorded attitude to risk.
The business has argued that when  looking at the investments  that were made by the 
SIPP, I should  take into account the overall  wealth of Mrs O. 

I do understand the point the business is making and it is right that the adviser should have 
been aware of Mr and Mrs Os overall circumstances when making his recommendation. I 
accept that, as part of Mrs Os overall assets, the UCIS investments were relatively small 
Ref: DRN77800884and Mrs O probably did have the capacity to accept the risk they posed.  But I also need to 
consider that Mr and Mrs O werent  seeking advice about what  to do with all this money and 
it doesnt seem to have  been envisaged that they would continue  to hold all this cash.
Nothing in the recommendation letter explained  that the adviser was recommending  a 
portfolio of investments that would represent  a greater risk than Mrs O said she was willing 
to accept, but that would  be offset by Mrs O having substantial assets elsewhere. I think  if 
that was the approach the adviser was taking,  he ought to have made that very clear to     
Mrs O. So, for the reasons given, I dont think I should consider the suitability of the UCIS  
investments solely  on the basis  that they formed a small  part of Mrs Os overall wealth that 
she could afford to take a risk with. 
Even if I accepted that the adviser  was considering Mrs Os overall position when 
recommending these UCIS investments  and that Mrs O had the capacity  to take the risk 
posed by the two UCIS, I do not think the evidence shows that Mrs O wanted to take the 
level of risk posed by those investments.
Mrs Os attitude  to risk was recorded  as being  5 on a scale  of 1-10, which was defined as 
cautious to realistic  e.g. managed funds, property funds, with profits.  The investment in 
UCIS represented a greater risk than this. 
I do not consider  the advice to invest 20%, or 12%,  of her SIPP in high risk UCIS funds was 
in line with Mrs Os recorded attitude  to risk of  5 on a scale  of 1-10, where  5 suggested 
investments in managed, property or with profits funds. These are much less risky than 
UCIS investments. These were not the only high-risk investments held in the SIPP  either. 
The adviser recommended, what he described as, a high-risk  investment and said because 
it was high-risk he was limiting the recommendation to 5% of the funds to be invested  in the 
SIPP. I think if he had properly taken  account  of Mrs Os attitude  to risk and the degree  of 
risk associated with the EEA and Quadris  funds, he might well have recommended  
investment in smaller proportions, or not at all. 
I note that the adviser said, in relation to the Quadris fund On our risk scale  of 1-10 we 
would rate this as a six . This suggests the adviser equated the risk of investing in this 
fund with managed  and balanced  funds,  index-tracking  and income  funds, protected 
stockmarket bonds . I do not agree that this accurately reflects the level of risk posed  by an 
investment in one niche  area (timber plantations) in one country, which  could reasonably be 
described as an emerging  economy. According  to the business own risk scale, it would have 
considered investments in commodity funds, funds in specialised markets  and individual 
countries with low market capitalisation, which appears the most likely  category for this 
investment, as being 9/10 on its risk scale. 
I think this is important because if the adviser  was tailoring investments and a portfolio to suit         
Mrs Os risk profile,  but he didnt appreciate the extent of the risks,  or misrepresented them, 
he might  not have recommended that investment if he had understood it, might  have  
recommended a smaller  proportion be invested,  or Mrs O might not have agreed to invest  if 
the extent of the risks had been  highlighted correctly. 
Using the businesss own risk scale, none  of the funds in the portfolio recommended by the 
business would appear to be less than 6/10 on its risk scale.  I dont think it can be said that 
this recommendation  matched her attitude to risk. The two high-risk UCIS investments 
werent offset by anything  low risk. It seems the adviser recommended them  because he 
Ref: DRN77800885didnt think they were high-risk investments and thought they broadly fitted in with the other  
investments, which even then, were  slightly higher  than Mrs Os recorded attitude to risk. 
2.Suitability and Risk Rating of the funds at the time of advice
As I set out in my provisional  decision I consider  that the business  should have been aware 
that the EEA Life Settlements Fund was unusual. It invested in second-hand life assurance  
policies and relied on being  able to sell the life policies that it had bought as investments for 
a good price when  it needed to. The life policies might need to be sold so that the fund 
could satisfy the demands for repayments  from investors. In my opinion, the business 
should have realised that there was always a risk that there would be no buyers at the 
prices that the fund manager wanted at the relevant time and the fund could be forced to 
suspend redemptions. (This is indeed  what  happened to the fund after the regulator  issued  
a report saying that the EEA fund was not a low risk investment but was in fact a high risk 
investment).
If the fund could not sell its life policies then it would have to wait for the policyholders to die 
to receive the monies due. As a result of policyholders living longer than expected  (by the 
actuaries at the EEA Fund) these claim payments were not being  received  as early as had 
been anticipated by the manager. This also meant  that the premiums  due on the policies 
would be payable for longer. As a result the returns to investors  would be lower than had 
been forecast at the time that the fund was set up.
In my opinion the business should have carried out its own due diligence  on the EEA Life 
Settlements Fund and, that if it had done  so, it would have realised that this was not a low 
risk or even a medium risk investment and that it was unsuitable  for Mrs O who was aged 
65 at the time that the investment was made  in 2009. There  was no certainty that any of the 
life policies could  be sold in eight years time at a good price when her husband  would be 
aged 75 and she would  be aged 73. I consider that proper due diligence would have  
reached the conclusion, reached  by the regulator, that the EEA fund was not low risk.
Once the regulator had announced that the EEA Fund was not a low risk investment but 
was in fact a high-risk investment many of the investors tried to withdraw their investments. 
As at the time there was insufficient cash in the fund and the policies could not be sold at a 
fair price, withdrawals from the fund were suspended.  I do however agree that since then 
the fund has managed to sell some of its life policies  and some of the policies  have become 
claims. As a result there have been a number  of on-account payments to investors  such  as 
Mrs O. 
 
I note the Quadris  fund invested in tree plantations in Brazil. The literature that the fund 
provided showed that it was promising investors:
Low volatility;
Uncorrelated to the performance of stocks and shares;
Consistent absolute  returns;
Asset backed investment.
The prospectus for the fund showed that the returns achieved in the past had been steady 
and apart  from minor drop in 2007, had been positive. The fund price had not suffered  the 
drop that the stockmarkets had over the same  time frame,
Ref: DRN77800886In my opinion the business should have also realised that investments in the Quadris Fund  
could only be sold when  a new investor was found  or the new trees planted had become 
fully mature. 
However the trees would take a long time to reach maturity.  This fund ran a very high risk 
that an investor would  not be able to sell their investment for many years  when the trees 
that had been planted  were harvested. In the meantime the fund would be incurring costs 
that would  need to be met by the investors.
I consider that if the business had done its own due diligence on the Quadris fund it would 
have realised that the investment was unsuitable  for Mrs O. 
In its response to my provisional decision the business has referred  to an apparently similar 
complaint made by a different person where  the complaint was not upheld  by the 
ombudsman. That ombudsman considered that the proposed high-risk investment was 
modest when looked at as a percentage of the complainants overall  investment portfolio.  I 
have looked at this complaint in more  detail and note that it was about  a further investment 
of £75,000 into a UCIS fund, in which there was already an investment. The ombudsman  
noted that the policyholder had an investment  portfolio that was worth around  £3 million and 
that the proportion of the assets  in the investment portfolio invested in UCIS was around 
10% with around  3% being invested in the fund where the additional  £75,000 was being 
invested.
There is no indication in this decision as to how old the other  investor was or whether they 
had significant  separate  pension benefits  or whether they had no pension benefits at all. 
These factors and others  will all have  an impact on what  risks the other investor  was 
prepared to take with the investment funds that they had. 
 
It is important  to realise that each case is looked  on its merits and I do not consider that the 
position of the other individual and Mr and Mrs O are comparable.
Summary
In summary,  Mrs O was investing part of her SIPP in high risk assets  that did not match her 
attitude to risk and those  risks werent  balanced  by investments into lower  risk assets.  In fact 
the overall risk presented  by the other investments in the SIPP  appears  to be greater than 
the level of risk she was willing to take, looking at the advisers description of the funds and 
based on the business own risk scale.
I understand the business  argument for saying her overall pension  provisions, or wealth in 
general, were much  greater and that it could be argued she was only taking a high risk with 
around 3.7%  of her total wealth/pension provision.  That argument  might be more  persuasive 
if the adviser had consciously  done  that and explained it to Mrs O. Instead, he told Mr and 
Mrs O that one of these high-risk funds was a medium risk, or 6/10. We dont know  what was 
specifically said about the EEA fund, but it also is out of step with Mrs Os attitude to risk and 
in my view constituted a high risk. The one fund where the adviser did acknowledge it was a 
high risk, he recommended an investment of just 5% of the SIPP  be invested there. Had he 
done things properly, he might only have recommended 5% be invested in these UCIS. I am 
satisfied there were errors  and I think its likely but for those  errors  the adviser would have 
recommended a lower  holding  in those funds, or he would have decided  against 
recommending investing  in those  funds altogether, or Mrs O would have been reluctant  to 
invest in funds that were  well above  her stated tolerance for risk. I think  Mrs O would have 
Ref: DRN77800887still invested the same amount of money  and so the fair thing to do seems  to me to put her in 
the position she would have been  in if she had been  advised to invest this £14,916 in funds 
that matched  her attitude to risk.
As I am still of the opinion that both of the UCIS  investments proposed  for Mrs O were  
unsuitable I uphold  this complaint and I award redress as set out in my earlier provisional 
decision.
redress
As I do not know  where  Mrs O would  have  invested  the funds  that were  invested  in the 
Quadris  Fund  and the EEA Fund  I have  assumed  that the monies  would  have  been  
invested  In line with a cautious  to realistic  attitude  to risk index.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs O, as far as possible,  into the position  she would  probably  now be 
in if shed  been  given  suitable  advice.  I think  Mrs O would  not have  invested  in the two 
UCIS  funds  that she did and would  have  invested  differently.  Its not possible  to say 
precisely  what  she would  have  done  differently.  But Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out 
below  is fair and reasonable  given  Mrs Os circumstances  and objectives  when  she 
invested.
what  should  Timothy  James  do?
To compensate  Mrs O fairly,  the business  must:
Compare  the performance  of each  of Mrs Os investments  with that of the benchmark  
shown  below.
A separate  calculation  should  be carried  out for each  investment.  The losses  should  be 
combined  and the total is the amount  of compensation  payable.  The business  should  
add interest  as set out below.
If there  is a loss,  the business  should  pay into Mrs Os pension  plan to increase  its 
value  by the total amount  of the compensation  and any interest.  The amount  paid 
should  allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available  tax relief.
Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any 
existing  protection  or allowance.
If the business  is unable  to pay the total amount  into Mrs Os pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount  direct  to her. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan,  it would  
have  provided  a taxable  income.  Therefore,  the total amount  should  be reduced  to 
notionally  allow  for any income  tax that would  otherwise  have  been  paid.  The notional  
allowance  should  be calculated  using  Mrs Os actual  or expected  marginal  rate of tax in 
retirement.
Mrs O is likely  to be a basic  rate taxpayer  in retirement.  The reduction  should  equal  the 
current  basic  rate of tax. However,  as Mrs O would  have  been  able to take a tax free 
lump  sum,  the reduction  should  be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN77800888In addition,  the business  should  pay Mrs O £250  for the disruption  caused  to her 
retirement  planning.  The business  should  also provide  details  of the calculation  to Mrs 
O in a clear,  simple  format.
Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  paid.  If the business  deducts  income  tax 
from the interest  it should  tell Mrs O how much  has been  taken  off. The business  
should  give Mrs O a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks  for one, so she can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
for each  investment:
actual  value
This means  the actual  amount  paid or payable  from the investment  at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value  of the investment.  So, the actual  value  should  
be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation.  The business  should  take 
ownership  of the illiquid  investment  by paying  a commercial  value  acceptable  to the investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom ("start  
date")to ("end
date")additional 
interest
EEA Life 
Settlements 
Fundstill existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE  UK 
Private  Investors  
Income  Total  
Return  Index;  for 
the other  half: 
average  rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my decision8% simple  
per year from 
date of 
decision  to 
date of 
settlement  (if 
compensation  
isnt paid 
within28  days  
of the 
business  
being  notified  
of 
acceptance)
Quadris  
Environ- 
mental  
FundNow 
wound upfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE  UK
Private  Investors  
Income  Total  
Return  Index;  for 
the other  half: 
average  rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation isnt paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business being notified 
of
 
acceptance)
Ref: DRN77800889pension  provider.  This amount  should  be deducted  from the compensation  and the 
balance  paid as I set out above.
If the business  is unable  to purchase  the investment,  the actual  value  should  be 
assumed  to be nil for the purpose  of calculation.  The business  may require  that Mrs 0 
provides  an undertaking  to pay to it any amount  she may receive  from the investment  
in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow  for any tax and charges  that would  be 
incurred  on drawing  the receipt  from the pension  plan.  The business  will need  to meet  
any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment  would  have  been  worth  at the end date had it produced  a 
return  using  the benchmark.
Any withdrawal,  income  or other  distribution  out of the investment  should  be deducted  
from the fair value  at the point  it was actually  paid so it ceases  to accrue  any return  in 
the calculation  from that point  on. If there  are a large  number  of regular  payments,  to 
keep  calculations  simpler,  Ill accept  if the business  totals  all those  payments  and 
deducts  that figure  at the end instead  of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy  suitable?
Ive decided  on this method  of compensation  because:
Mrs O wanted  capital  growth  and was willing  to accept  some  investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private  Investors  Income  total return  index  (prior  to 1 March  2017,  
the FTSE  WMA  Stock  Market  Income  total return  index)  is made  up of a range  of 
indices  with different  asset  classes,  mainly  UK equities  and government  bonds.  It 
would  be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some  risk to get 
a higher  return.
I consider  that Mrs Os risk profile  was in between,  in the sense  that she was 
prepared  to take a small  level  of risk to attain  her investment  objectives.  So, the 
50/50  combination  would  reasonably  put Mrs O into that position.  It does  not 
mean  that Mrs O would  have  invested  50% of her money  in a fixed  rate bond  and 
50% in some  kind of index  tracker  investment.  Rather,  I consider  this a 
reasonable  compromise  that broadly  reflects  the sort of return  Mrs O could  have  
obtained  from investments  suited  to her objective  and risk attitude.
Finally,  the business  should  pay Mrs O £250  for the trouble  and upset  caused  by the 
disruption  to her retirement  planning.  Mrs O has been  caused  a great  deal of upset  by 
the problems  with these  three  investments.  I consider  that a payment  of £250  is 
appropriate  for that upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Ref: DRN778008810Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN778008811COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED 27 NOVEMBER 2019
complaint
Mrs O has complained  that Timothy  James  and Partners  Ltd (referred  to from now on as 
Timothy  James  or the business)  gave  her unsuitable  advice  in 2009  to invest  part of her 
pension  provision  into two Unregulated  Collective  Investment  Schemes.  These  were  EEA 
Life Settlements  ("EEA")  and Quadris  Environmental  ("Quadris")  funds
Mrs O invested  just under  £7,500  into the EEA fund and the same  amount  into the 
Quadris  fund in December  2009.
Mrs O has not complained  about  the advice  that she received  to transfer  her existing  
pension  provision  to a new Self-Invested  Personal  Pension  (SIPP).
background
In April 2008  a fact find was completed.  This noted  that Mr and Mrs O owned  their home  
worth  about  £850,000  and an investment  property  worth  £350,000  that was rented  out at 
about  £1,000  per month.  In addition  to this Mr and Mrs O held £790,000  on deposit  some  
of which  was to be used  to buy a plot of land as an investment.
Mrs O was recorded  as having  an attitude  to risk for pension  investments  in July 2008  
that was 5 on a scale  of 1 to 10. This was termed  cautious  to realistic.
In August  2008  the business  wrote  to Mr and Mrs O setting  out some  interesting  and 
unusual  investment  propositions  that were  not related  to the stockmarket.  At the time the 
stock  market  was experiencing  significant  falls and volatility.  The ideas  set out included  
the EEA fund.
In October  2009  there  was another  meeting  at which  it was recorded  that Mr and 
Mrs 0 held over £750,000  on deposit.  They  were  interested  in investing  £500,000  of 
this for the medium  to long term.
The business  then noted  that a large  proportion  of Mrs Os pension  provision  was 
held in with profit  funds  that had been  performing  poorly  in recent  years.
Mrs O had accrued  pension  benefits  that were  worth  about  £75,000.  50% of her 
provision  was invested  in a with-profits  fund and the balance  was in a managed  fund.  
The business  pointed  out that whilst  the managed  fund had produced  positive  returns  
when  looking  at its comparative  performance  it was in the bottom  quartile  over 3-6 
months  and also the longer  term (3-5 years).
The business  recorded  that there  were  no Guaranteed  Annuity  Rates  (GARs)  applying  
to Mrs Os policy  and there  was no penalty  being  applied  to the with-profits  fund in the 
event  that the funds  were  transferred  out.
The business  noted  that Mrs O wanted  to keep  her pension  planning  as similar  to her 
husbands  as possible.  Mrs O had a slightly  lower  attitude  to risk than her husband  and 
was noted  a having  a cautious  to realistic  attitude  to risk in April 2008.  This it had 
viewed  as being  5 on a scale  of 1 to 10. The business  set out that this might  include  
managed  funds,  property  funds  and with profits  funds.
The business  report  highlighted  that if the transfer  did take place  that the projected  
Ref: DRN778008812benefits  for Mrs O at age 70 would  be significantly  lower  than the projected  benefits  from 
the old arrangements.  It recorded  that on the mid growth  assumption  the projected  fund at 
age 70 was some  £8,400  lower  under  the new plan.  This represented  a reduction  of 
around  7.5%.  The business  set out that the reduced  projected  benefits  for Mrs O were  as a 
result  of the higher  charges  and the initial  commission  that would  be payable.  Mrs O has 
not complained  about  the advice  she received  to transfer  to a new SIPP.  The evidence  
suggests  that Mrs 0 wanted  to have  the same  pension  arrangement,  namely  a SIPP,  as 
her husband  despite  being  told that the new arrangement  was more  expensive  and would  
lead to lower  retirement  benefits  than her existing  plans.
Mrs O accepted  the advice  to transfer  and the funds  valued  at £74,550  were  moved  to a 
new SIPP  where  in December  2009  £7,458.54  (or 10%)  was invested  into the EEA fund 
and £7,458.54  (or 10%)  was invested  into the Quadris  fund.  
The Quadris  fund was suspended  in March  2011.  The EEA fund was closed  to new 
investments  in November  2011.
On 1 December  2011  the business  wrote  to Mr and Mrs O to inform  them  that the 
regulator  had announced  that, whilst  it was aware  that many  life settlements  funds  like the 
EEA Life Settlements  Fund  had been  considered  to be low risk, they were  in fact high risk 
and were  generally  unsuitable  for retail  investors.
Following  this announcement  many  retail  investors  in the EEA fund sought  to sell their 
holdings.  This unexpected  surge  in applications  for redemptions  by investors  meant  that 
the fund had to suspend  withdrawals  at that time.  It was not possible  for the fund 
managers  to sell the underlying  investments  quickly  enough  to meet  the redemption  
requests  that they had received.
On 2 March  2012  Mrs O replaced  the business  as her advisers.
I note that since  the EEA fund was suspended  it has managed  to sell some  of the life 
policies  that it held and that some  other  polices  that it held have  become  claims  (when  
the policyholder  has died).  This has meant  that the EEA fund has been  able to make  a 
number  of interim  payments  to Mrs O and other  investors.
On 11 November  2015  Mrs Os new adviser  informed  the business  that she was going  to 
complain  about  the advice  that she had received  to invest  in the Quadris  fund and in the 
EEA fund.
On 14 January  2016  Mrs O complained  to the business  about  the advice  that she had 
received  to invest  some  of her pension  provision  in the Quadris  fund and some  in the 
EEA fund.
The business  initially  argued  that the complaint  had been  made  too late and was 
therefore  not a complaint  that the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  could  consider.
I investigated  the jurisdiction  issue  and concluded  that the complaint  was indeed  one 
that this service  could  investigate.  The business  accepted  my decision  that the 
complaint  was made  in time.
The business  then considered  the merits  of the complaint.
The business  noted  that in April 2008  Mrs O had her attitude  to risk assessed  as being  5 
on a scale  of 1-10.
This was recorded  as allowing  investments  in:
Ref: DRN778008813Managed  funds,  property  funds  and with profits  funds,
At the time of the report  Mr and Mrs O held cash  deposits  that amounted  to around  
£750,000  and were  looking  to invest  £500,000  of this over the medium  to long term.
In the circumstances  the business  considered  the advice  to Mrs O to invest  around  
£15,000  into the two UCIS  funds  was acceptable  and it rejected  the complaint.
Mrs O then complained  to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service.
On 3 November  2016  the adjudicator  issued  his view.  In this he stated  that he considered  
the cash  funds  that Mr and Mrs O held outside  their pension  plans  should  be excluded  
from the assessment.  He argued  that the investments  in the SIPP  should  be analysed  
separately  from the other  investments  that Mrs O held with her husband.  Given  this 
assumption  he concluded  that the investment  of 20% of Mrs Os SIPP  (or about  £15,000)  
into high risk UCIS  funds  was inappropriate  and he proposed  a method  of providing  
redress.
The adjudicator  considered  that Mrs O should  be compensated  as if the UCIS  
investments  had been  invested  in line with a notional  index.
The business  disagreed  and initially  argued  that the complaint  had been  made  too late 
and was therefore  not one that this service  could  consider.  This argument  was addressed  
by me in a jurisdiction  decision  dated  2 April 2019  in which  I stated  that this was a 
complaint  this service  could  investigate.
On 8 May 2019  the business  made  a lengthy  response  to the complaints.  It continued  to 
argue  that the complaint  from Mr and Mrs O should  be treated  as one complaint  rather  
than be split into two complaints  as the adjudicator  had done.
jurisdiction
The business  initially  argued  that the complaint  had not been  made  within  the time-
limits  set down  in the rules  under  which  the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  operates.
I considered  this argument  in my jurisdiction  decision  dated  28 February  2019.  In this I 
concluded  that this was indeed  a complaint  that the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  could  
investigate.
The business  has also argued  that the complaint  from Mr and Mrs O should  be treated  as 
one complaint  rather  than two as the adjudicator  has done.  It has noted  that the complaint  
was made  on one form and the advice  was given  at the same  time therefore  it considers  
that there  should  be only one complaint.
I have  considered  this argument  and I disagree.  Mr and Mrs Os pensions  were  separate  
investments  held in their individual  names.  Mr and Mrs O would  not be eligible  to bring  a 
complaint  about  each  others  pension.  It is clear  that Mr and Mrs O had different  terms  to 
retirement  and that Mr Os pension  provisions  were  significantly  greater  than those  of his 
wife.  Given  this and the fact that Mr and Mrs O had different  attitudes  to risk in my 
opinion  the decision  to deal with Mr and Mrs Os complaints  separately  was appropriate.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN778008814It is important  to note first that the business  was advising  Mrs O on where  to invest  her 
pension  funds.  It noted  that she and her husband  held significant  amounts  of cash  
deposits,  but these  were  to be used  for other  purposes  including  a possible  property  
development.
At the time of sale,  Mrs Os attitude  to risk was recorded  as 5 out of 10 and further  
defined  as:
a Cautious  to Realistic  investor.  This means  that managed  and property  funds  are 
suited  to your acceptable  level  of risk. along  with lower  classified  funds,  such  as 
fixed  interest  securities  and cash-based  funds.
On the face of things,  a recommendation  to invest  in high-risk  UCIS  funds  would  not seem  
to be suitable  for someone  with a cautious  to realistic  attitude  to risk.
I note that the promotion  of UCIS  investments  (such  as the EEA and Quadris  funds)  to 
the general  public  is normally  not allowed  unless  the relevant  regulations  allow  an 
exemption.  In this case,  the business  believed  that it could  market  the UCIS  investments  
to Mrs 0.
But, as the name  suggests,  UCIS  are unregulated.  This,  and the fact that they cant  be 
freely  promoted,  shows  that UCIS,  by their very nature,  are thought  of as a higher  risk. 
The regulators  view is that UCIS  are generally  regarded  as being  characterised  by a 
high degree  of volatility,  illiquidity  or both.  This means  theyre  usually  thought  of as 
speculative  investments.  This means  that in practice  UCIS  are rarely  considered  as 
suitable  for more  than a small  share  of an investors  portfolio.
The business  has argued  that it did not just rely on the marketing  literature  that had 
been  produced  on both the EEA and Quadris  funds  but had done  extensive  research  of 
its own.
The business  initially  believed  that the EEA Fund  had an investment  risk that was around  
a 6 and it believed  that the advice  to invest  10% of the SIPP  in the EEA Fund  was 
therefore  not inappropriate  for Mrs 0. It is not clear  on what  basis  the business  determined  
that investment  in this fund matched  her recorded  attitude  to risk, given  5 was said to 
equate  to managed  and property,  fixed-interest  securities  and cash-based  funds.  The 
investment  being  recommended  was essentially  in traded  life insurance  policies,  not 
managed,  property,  fixed-interest  and cash-based  funds.  It was a narrowly  focused,  
specialist  fund.
I note that the Quadris  fund invested  in teak plantations  in Brazil.  This involved  planting  
seedlings  and then waiting  20-25  years  for the trees  to grow  before  they could  be 
harvested  and the timber  sold.  It was likely  that there  would  be little return  before  the 
trees  were  harvested.  There  was unlikely  to be any annual  dividend  and the investment  
ran significant  risks  that it could  become  illiquid  and remain  so for a very long time.  In the 
circumstances  I consider  that the business  should  have  realised  that the investment  was 
inappropriate  for Mrs O who wished  to take benefits  from her SIPP  in less than ten years  
time.  It should  also be apparent  that this investment  did not tally with her recorded  attitude  
to risk.
The business  has argued  recently  in its submissions  to this service  that even  if the EEA 
fund and the Quadris  fund had been  classed  as having  a risk rating  of 10 out of 10 that the 
overall  weighted  average  rating  on the portfolio  was still in line with the 5 category  that it 
had determined  for Mrs 0.
Ref: DRN778008815However,  the business  should  have  realised  the problems  with the proposed  investment  
in the Quadris  fund made  it unsuitable  for Mrs 0. This was a long-term  overseas  
investment  in a single  commodity  in an unregulated  fund.  In my opinion  this would  have  
been  considered  as a high-risk  investment.  Unfortunately,  the fund never  made  the very 
attractive  returns  that investors  were  led to believe  were  possible  in the literature  and 
there  were  no new investors  that would  buy the investments  from existing  investors  such  
as Mrs 0.
I note that the Quadris  fund has now been  wound  up with investors  suffering  total loss of 
their investments.
Mrs O has confirmed  that she was aware  that a portfolio  with an overall  risk rating  of say 
5 would  include  some  assets  that were  classed  as higher  risk and some  that would  be 
lower  risk. However,  I do not agree  that the advice  to invest  20% of Mrs Os pension  
provision  in high risk UCIS  funds  was appropriate  given  that Mrs O had stated  that she 
wanted  a cautious  to realistic  approach  to investing  which  was said to be broadly  in 
keeping  with the risks  associated  with managed  and property  funds,  fixed-interest  
securities  and cash-based  funds.  I also cannot  see that the high risks  associated  with the 
UCIS  investments  were  adequately  balanced  by investment  in low risk areas.
On 8 May 2019  the business  argued  that because  Mr and Mrs O were  considering  
developing  a new property  that Mrs O was willing  to take a high level  of risk with the 
investments  in her SIPP.  I do not agree  that these  risks  are comparable.  In my opinion  it 
was clear  that Mrs O had asked  for advice  on her SIPP  investments  and had not asked  
the business  to advise  her on the wisdom  of the building  project  that was being  planned.
I finally  note that the business  has stated  that it carried  out extensive  separate  
investigations  of both the Quadris  and the EEA funds  before  they were  recommended  to 
Mrs 0. I have  to conclude  that the investigations  were  not thorough  as they did not 
highlight  the very serious  risks  of failure  in the Quadris  fund and the fact that the EEA 
fund was not a low or even  medium  risk investment.  Whilst  it did set out that there  might  
be problems  in selling  the investments  if Mrs O needed  to do so to pay for her pension  
the scale  of these  risks  was understated.
redress
I am therefore  minded  to uphold  this complaint  and to propose  a method  of redress.  
As I do not know  where  Mrs O would  have  invested  the funds  that were  invested  in the Quadris  
Fund  and the EEA Fund  I have  assumed  that the monies  would  have  been  invested  In line with a 
cautious  to realistic  attitude  to risk index.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs 0, as far as possible,  into the position  she would  probably  now be in 
if shed  been  given  suitable  advice.  I think  Mrs O would  not have  invested  in the two 
UCIS  funds  that she did and would  have  invested  differently.  Its not possible  to say 
precisely  what  she would  have  done  differently.  But Im satisfied  that what  Ive set out 
below  is fair and reasonable  given  Mrs Os circumstances  and objectives  when  she 
invested.
what  should  Timothy  James  do?
To compensate  Mrs O fairly,  the business  must:
Compare  the performance  of each  of Mrs Os investments  with that of the 
Ref: DRN778008816benchmark  shown  below.
A separate  calculation  should  be carried  out for each  investment.  The losses  should  be 
combined  and the total is the amount  of compensation  payable.  The business  should  add 
interest  as set out below.
If there  is a loss,  the business  should  pay into Mrs Os pension  plan to increase  its 
value  by the total amount  of the compensation  and any interest.  The amount  paid 
should  allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available  tax relief.
Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with 
any existing  protection  or allowance.
If the business  is unable  to pay the total amount  into Mrs Os pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount  direct  to her. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan,  it would  
have  provided  a taxable  income.  Therefore,  the total amount  should  be reduced  to 
notionally  allow  for any income  tax that would  otherwise  have  been  paid.
The notional  allowance  should  be calculated  using  Mrs Os actual  or expected  
marginal  rate of tax in retirement.
Mrs O is likely  to be a basic  rate taxpayer  in retirement.  The reduction  should  
equal  the current  basic  rate of tax. However,  as Mrs O would  have  been  able to 
take a tax free lump  sum,  the reduction  should  be applied  to 75% of the 
compensation.
in addition,  the business  should  pay Mrs O £250  for the disruption  caused  to her 
retirement  planning.  The business  should  also provide  details  of the calculation  to 
Mrs O in a clear,  simple  format.
Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  paid.  If the business  deducts  income  tax 
from the interest  it should  tell Mrs O how much  has been  taken  off. The business  
should  give Mrs O a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks  for one, so she can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkrom ("start  
date")o ("end
date")additional interest
EEA Life 
Settlements 
Fundstill existsfor half the 
investment:  FTSE  
UK Private  
Investors  Income  
Total  Return  
Index;  for the other  
half: average  rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per year 
from date of 
decision  to date of 
settlement  (if 
compensation  isnt 
paid within28  days  
of the business  
being  notified  of 
acceptance)
Ref: DRN778008817Quadris 
Environ- 
mental  
FundNow wound 
upfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE  UK
Private  Investors  
Income  Total  
Return  Index;  for 
the other  half: 
average  rate from 
fixed  rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per year 
from date of 
decision  to date of 
settlement  (if 
compensation  isnt 
paid within  28 days  
of the business  
being  notified  of 
acceptance)
for each  investment:
actual  value
This means  the actual  amount  paid or payable  from the investment  at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value  of the investment.  So, the actual  value  
should  be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation.  The business  should  
take ownership  of the illiquid  investment  by paying  a commercial  value  acceptable  to 
the pension  provider.  This amount  should  be deducted  from the compensation  and 
the balance  paid as I set out above.
If the business  is unable  to purchase  the investment,  the actual  value  should  be 
assumed  to be nil for the purpose  of calculation.  The business  may require  that Mrs 0 
provides  an undertaking  to pay to it any amount  she may receive  from the investment  
in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow  for any tax and charges  that would  be 
incurred  on drawing  the receipt  from the pension  plan.  The business  will need  to meet  
any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment  would  have  been  worth  at the end date had it produced  
a return  using  the benchmark.
Any withdrawal,  income  or other  distribution  out of the investment  should  be deducted  
from the fair value  at the point  it was actually  paid so it ceases  to accrue  any return  in 
the calculation  from that point  on. If there  are a large  number  of regular  payments,  to 
keep  calculations  simpler,  Ill accept  if the business  totals  all those  payments  and 
deducts  that figure  at the end instead  of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy  suitable?
Ive decided  on this method  of compensation  because:
 Mrs O wanted  capital  growth  and was willing  to accept  some  investment  risk.
  The FTSE  UK Private  Investors  Income  total return  index  (prior  to 1 March  
2017,  the FTSE  WMA  Stock  Market  Income  total return  index)  is made  up of a 
range  of indices  with different  asset  classes,  mainly  UK equities  and 
government  bonds.  It would  be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  
to take some  risk to get a higher  return.
   I consider  that Mrs Os risk profile  was in between,  in the sense  that she was 
Ref: DRN778008818prepared  to take a small  level  of risk to attain  her investment  objectives.  So, 
the 50/50  combination  would  reasonably  put Mrs O into that position.  It does  
not mean  that Mrs O would  have  invested  50% of her money  in a fixed  rate 
bond  and 50% in some  kind of index  tracker  investment.  Rather,  I consider  
this a reasonable  compromise  that broadly  reflects  the sort of return  Mrs O 
could  have  obtained  from investments  suited  to her objective  and risk 
attitude.
Finally,  the business  should  pay Mrs O £250  for the trouble  and upset  caused  by the 
disruption  to her retirement  planning.  Mrs O has been  caused  a great  deal of upset  by the 
problems  with these  three  investments.  I think  a payment  of £250  is appropriate  for that 
upset.
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to uphold  this complaint  against  Timothy  James  and Partners  Ltd and to 
direct  that it pay redress  as set out above.
Adrian  Hudson  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7780088