K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that Vanquis Bank  Limited  (Vanquis) are refusing to uphold  a claim he has 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s75).
background 
On 15 December 2017 Mr F took a group of clients out for dinner  and bowling at a bowling 
alley. He made some  of the payments using his Vanquis credit card and arrived, as planned, 
at 10pm.  The venue  had explained they would  open  until 1am. But when they closed earlier, 
at 12 midnight, Mr F raised a s75 complaint to get his money  back  from Vanquis as he said 
the Act, held the credit provider  jointly responsible. 
But Vanquis didnt  accept his claim as they said there wasnt  proof  the venue had agreed  to 
stay open later than usual  and he hadnt  provided  a copy  of the bill. So Mr F referred  his 
complaint to this service  and our investigator  reviewed the evidence.
She contacted the venue and gained assurances that it was scheduled to close  at 1am on 
the night in question but had to shut earlier because of a critical maintenance issue. She 
noted that Mr F had paid the initial deposit  using his credit card and a further payment of 
£130 but it was unclear what the total bill was as Mr F no longer had the invoice. She 
thought Mr Fs night had clearly been  disrupted  but she noted that he had been  able to 
benefit from some of the experience and she suggested Vanquis  refund £70, roughly a third 
of what Mr F paid and the same proportion of the night  that hed missed  out on.
But Mr F disagreed. He didnt think the service had been received as it was cut short  before 
the end and he couldnt finish his food because everything was so rushed.  So he asked  for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F but I agree  with the view of the investigator.  Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim.  This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 says that in certain circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for 
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
As Mr F paid for at least some of his evening using his credit  card a s75 claim is possible if 
he can demonstrate  there  was a breach of contract. And here I think that has been 
Ref: DRN71840122demonstrated as the venue has explained  there was a critical maintenance issue and that it 
had to close early. 
This must have been very frustrating for Mr F who was trying to ensure his clients enjoyed 
themselves. I can imagine that the evening was disrupted and hes explained that food 
couldnt be finished and they only managed  to complete a few games. But its clear  that 
although he wasnt able to complete the full match, some games were completed and its 
also clear some food was provided  and consumed. So I dont  think it would be fair to refund 
everything that Mr F has outlaid and I think the investigators suggestion  that £70 is repaid 
seems reasonable  in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and ask Vanquis  Bank  
Limited to refund £70 to Mr F in recognition  of his claim  under section  75 of the Consumer 
credit Act 1974.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7184012