K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Gain  Credit  LLC,  trading  as Lending Stream, irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two loans Lending  Stream provided to Ms B between February 2012 
and December 2013. Ms Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Loan AmountHighest  
Repayment
1 09/02/2012 28/06/2012 5 £100.00 £55.00
2 10/12/2013 03/05/2014 24 £500.00 £206.32*
*Our adjudicator included an incorrect figure for this value  in their view letter, but this didnt 
make a difference to the outcome. 
Our adjudicator considered Ms Bs case but felt Lending Stream  didnt do anything wrong 
when agreeing to lend Ms B these funds - and so the case shouldnt be upheld. Ms B 
disagreed with this outcome saying that Lending Stream lent to her irresponsibly based on 
her income and the fact that she was paying for two other payday loans at the same  time. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Ms B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN77779222There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Ms B could sustainably repay  her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
why I think Lending Streams checks were proportionate for loans 1 and 2
For loan 1 Ms B needed to repay around  £30.00 in the first month and the highest monthly 
repayment during  the term of the loan was £55.00. Ive seen a record of the information  
Ms B provided when she completed her loan application. Ms B said she had a monthly 
income of £780  for loan 1 and she had regular monthly outgoings  of £500. This left her with 
a disposable income of £280. So, it looked  like she had enough disposal income  to make her 
payments under this loan agreement
For loan 2 she needed to repay around £82.66 in the first month and the highest monthly 
repayment during  the term of the loan was around  £206.32. At this time Ms B said she had a 
monthly income of £1,000 and regular  monthly outgoings of £300. This left her with a 
disposable income of £700. So, again, it looked like she had enough disposal income  to 
make her repayments under this loan agreement.
Ms B was borrowing her first and second  loans from Lending  Stream,  and as the gap 
between the loans was quite significant,  it wouldnt be unreasonable for Lending Stream  to 
consider the second loan as separate from the first and not part of the same loan chain.
Ms B says she had other short-term loans  and was struggling financially at the time she took 
out these loans. She says that had Lending Stream carried out more thorough checks  of her 
circumstances it wouldve realised that the loans  were  unaffordable for her. However,  as Ive 
said above, in the early  stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might 
be reasonable and proportionate.  
Lending Stream asked  Ms B for her income  and monthly expenditure to determine  whether 
to lent to her. It also carried out a credit  worthiness  check which  included  obtaining some 
information from her credit report.  But what I would add at this point, is the information 
Lending Stream obtained  wouldnt be exactly the same as what  Ms B wouldve been able to 
see on her full credit report. Lending  Stream did not obtain a full credit  report  at this time but 
from what Ive seen  of the information it collected,  I dont think it wouldve raised any 
Ref: DRN77779223concern. And, I dont  think this ought to have led Lending Stream to make  further  enquires,  
or indeed  decline  her loan applications.  
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Lending Stream  was made  aware 
of any financial problems  Ms B mightve  been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate Ms Bs circumstances  further  such as making enquires with her about any 
other short term loans  she may have  outstanding.  So, I think  it was reasonable for Lending 
Stream to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Lending Stream did for these 
two loans were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Ms Bs complaint about  them. 
I appreciate that this decision  may come  as a disappointment for Ms B, but I want  to assure 
her that Ive thought about and considered  all the evidence that has been  made  available  to 
me. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I am not upholding this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7777922