K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with a mortgage.
background
In 1993 Mr R took out PPI during a branch meeting. The policy was designed to protect 
Mr Rs mortgage in the event he couldnt  work  because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy cost under  £20 a month  and it provided a benefit of around  £300 
a month. It would pay out for up to 36 months  for a disability claim and 12 months for 
unemployment.
At the time Mr R said he was employed  and he wasnt  entitled  to any sick pay. He also said 
he didnt have any savings or other means  he could  rely on to help meet  his mortgage 
payments if he wasnt working. He said he was in good health  at the time.
Santanders records showed the policy was cancelled  in 1997. It has no record  of Mr R 
having a Santander mortgage  around this time.
I issued my provisional decision of October 2019.  Here I said I was likely  not to uphold Mr 
Rs complaint. In summary  I gave the following  reasons  for reaching my provisional 
conclusion:
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr R, so it had to ensure that it was suitable  for 
him based on his needs and circumstances at the time. It also had to tell him 
everything he needed to know about  the recommended cover so he could decide 
whether to go ahead  or not.
because things happened many years ago and the policy  has long since  been 
cancelled, Santander no longer has any of the paperwork from the time. But its likely  
Mr R had to complete an application  form and direct debit  mandate  to allow the 
premiums to be taken from his bank account.  So overall, I thought  it was likely Mr R 
chose and agreed to take out PPI.
I accepted that Santander might not have done  all that it should have when it advised  
Mr R. But I didnt think it was wrong  of Santander to have recommended PPI 
because I thought it was suitable  for Mr R given his circumstances at the time. In 
summary I said it was suitable  because:
oMr R was eligible for the cover;
ohe wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions to and limits on the cover;
ohe had a need for cover given that he told us he didnt have any other means 
of making his mortgage payments if he wasnt working;
othe policy was affordable;  and
othe 12-week  waiting  period didnt  make the policy  unsuitable for Mr R in his 
circumstances - particularly as the policy  wouldve  paid out for up to 36 
months per claim.
I didnt think Mr R wouldve gone  ahead without knowing  something about the policy  
and its cost. But I accepted Santander might not have given Mr R all the information 
he fairly and reasonably needed about the policy. 
but given the policy  wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R - and because I didnt think  
it operated significantly  differently  from what he expected  I thought  it was more 
likely than not Mr R would  still have  gone  ahead and taken out PPI had Santander  
done anything  more. 
Ref: DRN76343962overall, I didnt think Mr R had lost out as a result.
Neither Santander nor Mr R  either directly or via his representative  responded to my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that neither  Mr R nor his representative  has replied to my provisional decision.  
But Im satisfied Mr Rs representative received  it  it was emailed as well as posted to them  
 and weve reminded them of the deadline  for responses. So, I think if Mr R and/or his 
representative wanted to respond  they wouldve done so by now.  I therefore think it is safe 
for me to carry on and issue my final decision.
On the basis that Ive not been  given anything new to consider, I see no reason to change  
my mind. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7634396