K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a packaged  bank account  called the Privilege Account 
(PA) by The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op  Bank).  
background
Mr S took out a fee free current account  with Co-op Bank  in October 2009.
Mr S upgraded to a PA two months later in December  2009 which  incurred a fee of £9.50 a 
month.
Mr S says Co-op Bank  recommended he take out the PA, but it wasnt  right for him as he 
didnt use any of its benefits other than the overdraft.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ss complaint and decided that Co-op Bank didnt do anything  
wrong in selling the PA. Mr S disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.
In my view, I dont think Mr S lost out as a result of anything Co-op  bank may have done  
wrong when he took out his PA and Ill explain  why.
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mr S was aware the PA was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in taking  out the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was aware and I say this because Mr S had a fee free 
current from October 2009 for two months  before  he upgraded to the PA in December 2009. 
So I think he was aware that he had a choice whether to take out the PA or continue  with his 
fee free current account and he chose to take out the PA.
Mr S says Co-op Bank  advised him to take out the PA. Co-op Bank  says it didnt. Im going  
to assume that Co-op Bank did advise Mr S and recommend  he take the PA as it doesnt 
affect the outcome of my decision.
So, Co-op Bank needed to provide Mr S with sufficient information  about the PA to make  an 
informed choice. And in recommending  the PA, it also needed to take adequate steps to 
ensure that the PA was a reasonable  fit for Mr Ss circumstances.
From October 2009 to December 2009  Mr S says he ran an overdraft on his fee free account 
and incurred charges of more than £100. Mr S says he had to take out the PA because  Co-
op Bank told him it was the only way he could get an arranged overdraft.
Mr S says that in December 2009  he was leaving college due to medical  issues.  He says he 
had no income and was in the process of arranging income support. Mr S says he wanted  to 
retain a bank account but he had built up the overdraft. So I think its more likely  than not 
that Co-op Bank discussed his options with him. I think its likely the Co-op told Mr S that if 
Ref: DRN74135872he wanted to continue to have a bank account  and run an overdraft, the fee free account 
had high overdraft  charges but the PA provided no charge  for running an overdraft up to 
£200, better rates for running an overdraft above  this and a relatively low monthly fee. 
In my view, this was a suitable recommendation in his circumstances. I say this because, if 
he intended to continue to have a bank account and he was likely to have an overdraft,  its 
more likely than not that the PA gave him a better financial position even if he was paying 
the monthly fee. Mr S says that he used the overdraft to buy things he didnt need  such as a 
phone and clothes.  But I think it more likely  than not that if he had no income when he took 
out the PA he also needed the overdraft for day to day living  expenses  until he received his 
income support.   
Mr S has said that he had a medical condition that wouldve been  obvious to the Co-op Bank  
representative he was speaking to and wouldve affected his ability to make a decision. I can 
understand why Mr S has raised this, but it doesnt  change my view that the Co-op  Banks 
recommendation improved his financial situation  in the short  term and so was suitable for 
him. 
I note that Mr S couldve closed the PA at any time but he didnt and the account  continued  
until 2014. He says that it wouldve been  difficult for him to close  the PA due to his medical 
condition, but I think its more likely than not than he couldve been  assisted by family or 
friends to do so. So I think the PA was of interest  to Mr S, he had a need  for it and he found  
it useful.
Mr S says that the PA contained a range of other  benefits which  he didnt  need.  But he also 
explained that he tried to use the gadget insurance but was unable to register his device 
online. I think this shows Mr S had an interest  in some of the insurance  benefits on offer, but 
ultimately it was up to Mr S whether he used  these or not, and these additional benefits 
didnt make the recommendation unsuitable.  He also says that Co-op  told him that it would 
be impossible for him to go over the £200 limit on his overdraft. Im not sure what  he means 
by this or what impact  it may have had on him, but in my view it was for Mr S to ensure that 
he didnt exceed  the limit.
I dont know what Co-op  Bank  said or what information it gave Mr S about  the PA but as I 
think the PA was suitable for Mr S and he was primarily interested in the overdraft  facility,  I 
dont think there was anything Co-op  Bank  didnt  tell him that wouldve  stopped  him taking it. 
So I dont  think Mr S lost out by taking out the PA.
Ref: DRN74135873my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7413587