K821x#15complaint
Mr P makes  a number of complaints about TSB Bank Plc following two chargebacks  that he 
wished to make.
background
Mr P main  complaint is about a telephone he bought from a company I will call A. He says 
that telephone was not delivered despite  A telling him it had been. Mr P asked TSB to raise 
a chargeback but says it didnt despite him providing  all the information he could. He says he 
had previously made an unsuccessful chargeback involving a different company  I will call 
G and that TSB told him it would be dealing with both complaints together.  Mr P says he 
didnt receive final response letters from TSB and it didnt deal with the chargebacks  as it 
should and that he couldnt  provide  any more  information than he had already provided.
TSB says it asked Mr P for further information  about  this in August 2018  but Mr P didnt 
respond until he contacted it again in November 2018. It says it paid £75 compensation and 
£12 call costs as it said it hadnt received Mr Ps responses in August 2018. It now says 
following checks, that it hadnt received Mr Ps e-mail. TSB says it sent Mr P a final response 
letter in respect  of his dispute with G in April 2018.
Mr P provided further information about  his dispute and copies of the e-mail exchange 
between him and TSB and his recordings of various calls between  them.  He also complains 
about an attempted money transfer  that failed and says he would like compensation and the 
cost of the telephone (£739) refunded.
Mr P had brought his complaint to us in April 2019 and our investigator  thought  overall that 
TSB hadnt dealt appropriately with Mr Ps complaints.  In summary the investigator thought 
we couldnt look at Mr Ps complaint against  G as Mr P had brought  it too us about  six 
months outside the time limit for doing so. The investigator thought TSB was entitled  to ask 
Mr P for further information about the delivery  from A and the circumstances of it. But that it 
was clear that Mr P couldnt provide any further information and was consistent  in what he 
said about a lack of a tracking number or further delivery  information.  The investigator  
thought TSB ought to have to have raised  the chargeback but didnt think it possible to 
conclude what the outcome  would be. He recommended TSB pay Mr P half of the cost of the 
telephone of £369.50 and pay a further £125 for its poor service.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and says he didnt receive TSBs final response about G and 
has a call recording in which he says he was told the complaints would be combined. He 
says he will provide that. Mr P doesnt  agree with the compensation recommendation or the 
fairness of the refund.
TSB also doesnt accept  the investigators view and says it has to comply with what its told 
by the merchant in these  circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my 
decision.
Ref: DRN71531082I am satisfied that TSB sent Mr P a final response  letter in respect  of his dispute with G. I 
can see that the date of the letter is April 2018  and that letter told Mr P that he had six 
months to bring any complaint to us. Mr P brought his complaint about A to us in April 2019  
and during the course of that complaint also made  us aware of the dispute with G. So Im 
satisfied that part of his complaint was brought too late for us to consider under the rules we 
operate under.
 I can consider a complaint out of time if I consider there are exceptional circumstances why 
it couldnt be brought earlier. I dont think there  are such circumstances here and although 
Mr P says he didnt receive  the letter I would have expected him to have  contacted TSB 
about it and not waited  over 12 months  to bring  that part of his complaint to us. I appreciate 
Mr P says he has a call recording in which TSB told him it would  deal with both complaints 
together. But I have  not received a copy of that call and I think  it unlikely TSB would have 
agreed to look again  at the dispute  with G after it issued  its final response.
I have looked  at the e-mail exchange between the parties in August 2018.  And Im satisfied 
Mr P made clear  that he wanted  TSB to take matters further with A as he had reached a 
stalemate. I also think at that stage Mr P had provided all of the information he could 
possibly have provided and explained  clearly why he couldnt provide the information TSB 
wanted about the tracking and delivery.  So in those circumstances I would have expected 
TSB to have raised  the chargeback on behalf of its customer and let the debit card scheme 
provider make a determination  on the facts and circumstances.
I appreciate TSB says it didnt receive  the last e-mail Mr P says he sent.  But having looked 
at the e-mail exchange Im satisfied  it was sent and in any event I think by that point Mr P 
had already provided sufficient information  for a chargeback to be made.
I agree  with the investigator that it would be impossible to say what  would have  happened  to 
that chargeback  as of course TSB isnt responsible for that. But I think  the investigators 
recommendation is fair and reasonable that TSB pay half of the value. I also think that TSB 
didnt handle  this complaint as it should  and I can see that Mr P made numerous calls to 
TSB about  this. So I think it fair that TSB pay slightly more compensation than it has and 
again think the recommended award by the investigator fairly reflects what took place and 
the time Mr P has spent trying to sort matters out.
I can see that Mr P makes  a further complaint about  a problem transferring money.  I make  
clear to him that TSB hasnt looked into that and so I cant  fairly comment on it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  TSB Bank  Plc to pay Mr P 
£369 in respect  of the telephone and £125 compensation.  In total £494.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Ref: DRN71531083David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7153108