K821x#15complaint
Mrs O has complained about the way U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) dealt with a claim she
made under her car insurance policy. Mrs Os husband Mr O is representing her in her
complaint.
background
Mrs O was involved in an incident with another vehicle in June 2016 and she made a claim
to UKI. UKI told her it would deal with the claim as a non-fault  claim  as Mrs O said the
other driver hit the rear of her car whilst  travelling  on a roundabout. Mrs O said the other
driver had accepted  responsibility.
UKI arranged for Mrs Os car to be repaired and waived the excess of £125. Three years
later UKI told Mrs O it intended  to settle  the claim on a 50%/50% split liability basis with the
third partys  insurer  (TPI).
Mrs O complained to UKI. It paid Mrs O £40 compensation for the inconvenience it caused
and said it wouldnt ask Mrs O to pay any of the excess. But it said its decision was correct.
Mr O asked us to look at Mrs Os complaint.
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability  but that we can look at whether an
insurer properly investigated a claim and reached  its decision reasonably.  In this case, the
investigator felt UKI hadnt properly investigated  the claim.
So she recommended  UKI didnt record  the claim as a fault claim against  Mrs O. And she
thought it should pay Mrs O an additional  £150  compensation
Mr O on behalf of Mrs O accepted the investigators view. UKI didnt  agree. In summary it
said the outcome  wouldnt  have changed if it had done things differently in its investigation.
And it said it has effectively compensated Mrs O for failing to update  her by paying the
equivalent of £165 compensation - as it waived the excess.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 September 2019. I thought UKI should pay Mrs O a 
further £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience its handling and delay of the 
claim caused. But I thought  on balance   that the liability outcome UKI reached  of 
50%50% was reasonable. 
UKI didnt  agree. It accepts it caused  delays   but believes  the compensation its already 
awarded is fair. 
Mr O on behalf of Mrs O didnt  agree.  Ill address his reasons in my findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O reported the incident to UKI on 16 June 2016.  She explained that as she was leaving
a roundabout, she slowed  down as a vehicle  ahead of her pulled out. As she did, a third
party vehicle hit the rear of her car. Mrs O provided  details  of the other  driver to UKI. There
were no independent witnesses and no CCTV or dashcam footage available.
Ref: DRN71727732From UKIs notes,  it seems it incorrectly recorded the claim as a notification  only in
June 2016. Because of this error, UKI didnt contact the other drivers insurer  about the claim
until December 2016  six months later.
In January 2017 the other driver  sent an email to UKI confirming his version  of events. He
said that a vehicle had pulled out in front of Mrs O causing her to brake hard in front of him.
He said that Mrs Os car then rolled back and hit the front of his car causing minor damage
which he didnt claim for. He said they exchanged  details at the scene  but that Mrs O said
she would  speak to her husband about getting  her car fixed as the damage  was minor and
not worth  claiming  through their insurance.
The other driver said he was surprised  to be contacted about the claim in January 2017. He
said this was the first time he was made aware  of it.
I think UKI should have  updated Mrs O at this stage to let her know  that liability was in
dispute. But it didnt.  
The TPI wrote to UKI in February 2017  and said their client denied involvement.  This is 
despite the fact that he confirmed involvement  in an email in January 2017  to UKI  but 
denied liability.
The next update according to its notes was on 28 June 2017 when UKI asked the third party 
insurer to arrange  an inspection of the other  drivers car. This was now a year after the 
incident. The TPI replied  on 30 June 2017 to say their client told it hed sold his car in 
May 2016 - before the incident   and denied involvement. 
In my provisional decision I said I hadnt seen evidence  of this. But Mr O pointed  out that a 
copy of an email from the TPI dated  20 February 2017 was included in the documents they 
originally sent us. I apologise for my oversight  here. 
In September  2017 the third party insurer reiterated  an extract  from the other drivers 
account from his email in January 2017.  It concluded that unless UKI could prove liability 
rested with their insured driver, it expected UKI to drop the allegation.
Mr O says that he and Mrs O arent  aware of the other drivers email. So he said he cant 
comment on it. We asked UKI if the email  could be forwarded. It said it referred to its data 
team and said no as the document is from the other driver to UKI. 
In November 2017 UKI called the third party insurer  and it confirmed it hadnt heard from the
other driver.  The note reads that UKI would review the case in 14 days and if no reply,  would
pass to its solicitors to look to recover the claim costs.
The next review  date under the file is 29 April 2019.  UKI decided here that due to a lack of
evidence, its a case of one word against the other  so it would look to settle the claim on a
50%50% split liability basis. This is when UKI contacted Mrs O and is the first time Mrs O
was made  aware  that liability for the June 2016 claim was in dispute.
I think its clear  that UKI caused undue delay and failed to update Mrs O at key stages. I can
understand how shocked Mrs O must have been  when  she heard from UKI in April 2019.
However, Ive carefully considered the evidence available to UKI and whether on balance its
delay and investigation into the claim made any difference to the likely outcome.
Ref: DRN71727733I know Mr and Mrs O disagree with my provisional  decision. But I remain  of the view that 
UKIs failings  didnt change the outcome. The fact is the other driver disputed what  
happened and so  even  if he accepted responsibility at the scene  this means the onus 
was on UKI to prove he was at fault. Mr O believes  it would have been much more  difficult 
for the third party to change his account immediately after the incident   especially if it had 
been followed up by a solicitors letter. 
But even if UKI had contacted the third party insurer  promptly, I think the other drivers 
version of events would  have  been the same.  It isnt unusual for a partys stance on liability  
to change  even where an insurer  makes  contact promptly.
Despite the discrepancies  in the TPIs communication, neither party  disputes  the incident  
took place  and both agree there was damage to both cars.  So I cant say that an 
inspection of the other drivers car  if it had taken  place   would have made  a difference.
What I think is more  likely to have  happened  if UKI had been  more proactive in its handling
of the claim  is that it would have reached an outcome sooner. But given the
circumstances, I dont  think  it would  have settled the claim as non-fault.  Even if UKI had
referred the case for legal  advice, I dont think this would  have  changed anything. Ultimately
UKI is entitled to reach a decision as to how it settles a claim. I dont think  its unreasonable
for UKI to look to settle the claim on the best terms possible, rather  than risk significant  costs
by disputing liability in court. I think  in this case, the outcome was very likely to be the same
given the evidence available.
So I think UKIs failing here is in how pro-actively it handled the claim  and its failure to
update Mrs O at key stages. Its clear  that Mrs O was shocked when she heard from UKI in
April 2019. She requested  a copy of UKIs file so that she could better understand how it
reached its decision  and she found  inconsistencies and delays. I think this further
contributed to Mrs Os concerns that UKI hadnt reached its decision in a fair way. Mrs O
explained that the matter  has caused  her stress  and upset at finding out after three  years
that UKI intends  to settle the claim on a shared liability basis for an incident she says wasnt
her fault.
I think UKIs compensation payment of £40 in addition to waiving the excess  isnt enough  to
put things right. I think if UKI had updated  Mrs O at key stages and been more proactive in
its handling of the claim,  it would have better managed Mrs Os expectations and avoided
the upset, time and trouble it caused her three years later. So I think  UKI should pay Mrs O a
further £150 compensation for its poor handling  of the claim and its failure  to keep Mrs O
updated.
But I dont think UKIs  failings mean  on balance  that the outcome of the claim would have
been different.  I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs O, but this means I dont  think  UKIs
decision to look to settle the claim  on a shared liability basis is an unreasonable one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mrs Os complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited  to 
pay Mrs O a further £150 compensation in addition to the £40 its paid for the delays caused 
in its investigation  into the claim and for failing to update her at key stages.
Ref: DRN71727734I dont think UKIs decision to look to settle  the claim on a shared liability basis  is an
unreasonable one.
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mrs O accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Mrs O considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs O a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7172773