K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that MBNA Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr E. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003 . The policy was sold to 
Mr E by phone.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  MBNA disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered what MBNA has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. This 
is because I think its unlikely the information MBNA gave Mr E about the costs and benefits 
was as clear as it should have been. I say this because of what  we know about MBNAs 
phone sales processes at the time.  I think this would have mattered to Mr E because he 
says he received an inheritance a short while before the policy started. He has sent us 
evidence of his bank statement to show this payment  being  received. So I dont think he had 
a clear need for the PPI and, if hed been  given  proper information, is unlikely to have  
thought the PPI worth the cost. 
fair compensation
MBNA should put Mr E in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.MBNA should find out how much  Mr E would have owed when he closed his credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Mr E owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr E made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, MBNA  can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.MBNA should add simple interest on the difference  between what  Mr E would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed his it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  MBNA works out what Mr E would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr E 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, MBNA should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr E paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr E 
Ref: DRN70207442wouldve owed MBNA something on his credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.MBNA should tell Mr E what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Es complaint.  
I require MBNA Limited to pay Mr E compensation in accordance  with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7020744