K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  failed  to tell them that 
their account  was in arrears and so has unfairly registered adverse  information on their 
credit file.
background
Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage fell into arrears  in late 2009. In 2011 Halifax took Mr and Mrs N to 
court and the court ordered them to pay £150  each month to clear the arrears on top of their 
normal contractual monthly  mortgage repayment. Mr and Mrs N say that they made an 
arrangement with Halifax to do this and havent missed a payment. They  have now found 
that they are still in arrears and Halifax has recorded  missed payments on their credit file.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  She said that as Mr and Mrs N 
had complained to Halifax  about  a lack of arrears  letters in 2017 this service couldnt look 
into this part of their complaint again.  She did review Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage statement  
and saw that they had missed some payments so she didnt think Halifax had made a 
mistake by reporting this to the credit reference agencies.
Mr and Mrs N responded  to say, in summary,  that they thought  the mortgage arrears  
payment was included in the mortgage  repayment  amount that Halifax  gave to them.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
arrears letters
We do not have  a free hand  to consider  every  complaint that is referred to us. Our rules, 
which we are required by law to follow, say  amongst  other things  that we cannot 
normally deal with a complaint if it is referred to us more than six months after the date of the 
banks final response  letter  and where the bank objects to our considering it.
Halifax has objected to our looking into Mr and Mrs Ns complaint about arrears  letters,  
because it was made too late. I agree. We could only have considered this subject matter  of 
their complaint if they had referred  it to us no later than 17 November 2017. Mr and Mrs N 
first complained to us about this in September 2018 so Im satisfied that the complaint was 
referred to us more  than six months  after the final response was issued, such that it falls 
outside our jurisdiction. That being  so, Im not able to comment on the issues  they have 
raised about the lack of arrears letters.
court order
Mr and Mrs N accept that their mortgage  was in arrears and that Halifax  took them to court 
in 2011. The court ordered them to pay an extra £150 each month  on top of the usual 
mortgage repayment. They say that they didnt receive a copy of this order.  Whilst this might 
have been the case, I consider that it is usually sent directly to both parties  by the court. As 
well as this, I find that Halifaxs solicitors wrote to Mr and Mrs N ten days  after the court 
hearing to tell them that it was important for them to maintain their payments in accordance 
Ref: DRN71131232with the terms of the order.  If they hadnt  received  a copy of the order  then I would have 
expected them to contact either the court or the solicitors to ask for one. 
I have looked  carefully  at Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage  statement following the court hearing 
and I see that they were  paying the contractual monthly repayments  plus an extra  £150. On 
balance, I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N did know that they were 
required to pay £150 on top of their mortgage  repayments at that time.
credit report
Mr and Mrs N say that despite never missing any repayments after they set up the 
arrangement they have  recently seen that missed payments have been registered on their 
credit file. Having looked  at Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage statement, I can see that they did fail 
to make their monthly repayments a few times  since the court hearing, although I accept 
they sometimes paid extra  the following month to bring the payments up to date. 
Halifax had agreed  to change Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage to interest only during the time they 
were experiencing financial  difficulties. At the end of 2012 this went back to being  capital and 
interest repayment mortgage and the monthly  repayments increased. Although the monthly 
contractual repayments increased in December  2012, Mr and Mrs N continued  to pay the 
lower amount until March  2013. When they started  to pay the increased amount, I find they 
didnt include the additional £150 to continue to clear the arrears. 
Mr and Mrs N had reduced  the arrears from around  a maximum of just under £4,000  to £735 
by the end of December  2012, but the arrears increased again between December 2012 and 
March 2013 to £1,225.  As Ive already  said, this was because they didnt increase their 
monthly payment  as soon as the mortgage  changed from interest only to capital repayment. 
The arrears  remained around £1,200  until December 2017 when Mr and Mrs N began to pay 
more than the contractual monthly repayment.  The arrears were  cleared in June 2018.
I have looked  at the information Halifax has recorded with the credit references  agencies. 
The report  shows the balance reducing monthly  and the account  is now showing as up to 
date. Prior  to March  2018 the account was showing as being in early  arrears (one or two 
missed payments) or that there was an arrangement  to pay, with payments being just one 
month late.
In the circumstances, I conclude that Halifax has correctly  recorded the factual  information  
about the conduct of the account with the credit reference agencies.  It wouldnt, therefore, be 
appropriate for me to require it to amend Mr and Mrs Ns credit file.
monthly payment  amount
As I have explained, when the interest only arrangement ended  in December 2012, Mr and 
Mrs Ns mortgage went back to being  capital repayment. Their contractual monthly  
repayments increased from £393 to £697.  They say that they thought  the arrears were  
included in the mortgage repayment amount set by Halifax.
 I find Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs N in January  2013 to tell them that their account was still 
in arrears by over £1,000 and that they werent meeting the contractual  monthly payments. 
In March 2013 Halifax sent a mortgage statement, which  also showed the amount of the 
contractual monthly payments.  Given that the court  order required Mr and Mrs N to pay both 
the contractual payments  and an additional  £150  to clear the arrears I think  they knew, or 
Ref: DRN71131233should have known, from the letter and the statement, that they still needed to be paying 
£150 on top of the £697  contractual  repayment.
sub-accounts
Mr and Mrs N have also asked why they mortgage account now appears as two sub-
accounts. In March 2013 Halifax moved  to a new mortgage system and changed the way it 
managed its mortgage  customer  accounts.  Im satisfied that it sent a letter to Mr and Mrs N 
to explain that their mortgage  was made  up of a number of parts, such as different 
repayment methods,  interest rates and terms, and it was putting these different parts  into 
sub-accounts. It told Mr and Mrs N that sub-account number 1 included any costs or charges 
which had been  added  to the mortgage.  Sub-account 2 is the balance  on the mortgage 
account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7113123