K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about his contents  insurer  Aviva Insurance  Limited  in relation to a 
claim he made to it for a Rolex watch,  specified  on his policy, which he had lost.
background
Mr W made a claim to Aviva after he lost his watch.  He said the watch  lost was the one 
specified on his policy  a particular model of watch made by Rolex,  recorded on the 
policy as being  worth £9,000. Mr W said his late mother had given him the watch  and he 
only had photos  of him wearing the watch to evidence his ownership  of it. Aviva appointed  
a loss adjuster  to assess the claim. The adjuster  met with Mr W and asked him for various 
pieces of information. The adjuster also said he was appointing a jewellery  specialist to 
provide him with a quote for the lost watch.
The jewellery specialist  duly provided a quote.  It said the retail price of the watch was
£6,850. When  the adjuster asked it, the specialist said it had no concerns that the watch  
wasnt genuine. Later the specialist told Aviva that it couldnt tell either way from the 
photos provided and so had just provided a value based on the make and model being 
claimed.
The adjuster  continued to assess  the claim. Further  information was requested of Mr W 
including detail from his previous insurer regarding  two previous claims for high value 
watches also said to have  been  gifted to him which had also been lost or stolen.
Having completed  its enquiries  Aviva  wrote to Mr W and said it was declining  his claim 
because hed only been able to provide photos  of the watch claimed for. Aviva  said the 
policy required Mr W, when claiming  for a specified  item, to provide evidence of its value. 
It said that there is a large market for counterfeit Rolexs  and as such  it isnt unreasonable  
to expect Mr W to have  other forms of proof, not just photos of him wearing the watch, to 
show what he owned was a Rolex. It said it was declining the claim.
Mr W complained  to this service. Our investigator  felt Aviva had acted fairly. Mr W didnt 
agree and the complaint  was passed  to me for a decision  to be made. I felt, on the basis  
of the evidence Aviva had provided to date,  its decline of the claim had been unfair and 
unreasonable. I issued a provisional decision to explain  my initial findings, which were:
Mr Ws policy  does require him to not just evidence ownership for claimed for items, but 
also to show their value. At this stage Mr W has provided photos of him wearing a watch. 
Aviva is aware that this service will often  find that photographs are sufficient evidence, on 
the face of it, to evidence ownership of items,  and sometimes, even value. Avivas own file 
shows that its internal  polices reflect  this. But the file also shows  that Aviva expects, 
where certain items  are concerned (those of high-value and often the focus  of 
counterfeiting), for more  robust proof of ownership  and/or  value to be provided. Effectively 
it wants to be shown  not just that the item was most likely owned, but that it almost  
certainly was. But I note Avivas policy isnt clear in that respect. The terms dont advise 
that policyholders  who own and claim for these type of items,  will be subjected to greater 
scrutiny and put to a higher burden of proof than others who claim for different types of 
specified or unspecified items. For me that doesnt  meet with the definition  of treating all 
its customers fairly.
Im also mindful that here Aviva appointed a jewellery specialist. Whilst it wasnt a Rolex  
Ref: DRN77761402expert, the specialist didnt identify any issues with the watch and was happy to provide a 
replacement value. I note it later clarified its position somewhat,  by stating it couldnt 
verify the watch one way or the other.  But as Mr R had shown, on the face of it, that he 
owned a Rolex,  it was up to Aviva, if it wanted to fairly decline the claim, to disprove that. 
Aviva could have asked a Rolex specialist to take a look at the photographs. Ive seen  the 
photographs, theyre quite good quality and show a fair amount of the watch  detail. It isnt 
unusual for an insurer  to revert to an expert  in this type of situation. I think  it would  have 
been reasonable for Aviva to have done  that here.
Mr W did have  previous  claims  for lost watches. He hasnt been  able to provide evidence 
from his insurers about these claims. I can understand why these might have concerned 
Aviva. But I note that when Mr W wasnt able to provide detail, Aviva didnt make its own 
enquiries. It certainly hasnt, as far as Ive seen, gathered evidence which might  give it fair 
grounds for concluding  Mr Ws current claim should fail.
From what  Ive seen Mr W has co-operated with Avivas enquiries. He hasnt always 
provided it the detail  its asked  for, such as in relation to the previous claims.  But he 
doesnt seem to have  refused to provide detail, or obstructed Avivas enquiries in anyway. 
Rather hes answered what he can and explained  what hes been unable to obtain.
I understand that Aviva might usually  expect people to keep more documentation  when  
they own expensive  items. But its policy doesnt identify that it expects this of its 
policyholders, and it is always at liberty  to undertake reasonable enquiries to either ensure 
the claim is valid or to gather evidence to show declining its the fair and reasonable thing 
to do in the circumstances at hand.  It cant reasonably expect  its policyholder to do all the 
legwork for it. I think Aviva  has treated  Mr W unfairly and unreasonably here and that to 
put things right it should settle the claim by either replacing the watch or paying  Mr W the 
value stated by its specialist, less VAT (until Mr W shows  hes paid VAT)  £5,480 (£6,850 
less £1,370 VAT), plus interest* from the date of the valuation  until settlement is made.
Mr W said he was happy with my findings.  Aviva  said it disagreed with them. Aviva 
maintained it had been reasonable  for it to ask for further evidence from Mr W to show 
that the watch hed owned  was the watch specified on the policy and claimed  for (a 
particular make and model of Rolex).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Avivas  response but it doesnt  add to anything its said before  and which 
Id already considered when making  my provisional  decision. I remain satisfied  that Mr W, on 
the face of it, showed he owned the watch claimed for. Therefore, it then became up to Aviva 
if it wanted to establish  the watch wasnt what it was reported to be. I also remain  of the view 
that it would  have been reasonable for Aviva to seek a view from a Rolex specialist  in this 
regard  as specialists can make determinations from photos and talking to owners  to 
discuss the nature of items  but it didnt chose to do so.
My provisional view hasnt changed. My provisional findings now form part of the findings  of 
this, my final decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN77761403I uphold this complaint.  I require Aviva Insurance Limited to replace the watch  or pay 
Mr W £5,480,  plus interest* from the date of the valuation until settlement is made. If a 
cash settlement is made and Mr W shows it hes paid VAT for a replacement watch, it will 
have to reimburse him to the value  of £1,370.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Aviva  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr W, it should tell him how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr W a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7776140