K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy Mr B took out in 1997. The policy provided 
Mr B with cover for injury, illness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
Mr B has a number of concerns. He mainly  complains  that he mightve thought  the PPI was 
mandatory as he had excellent  staff benefits and felt the policy  duplicated protection he 
already had in place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Here are my reasons.
I think Bradford & Bingley  made Mr B aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted  PPI or 
not - and that he chose to have it. I say this because the mortgage application he signed  
offered Mr B the option of saying he didnt want PPI. And he ticked (from a choice of 
possible options)  to select the type of cover  he wanted. So, I think  the form made  it clear  he 
did have the option to say no to PPI if he hadnt wanted to have it. And the policy was 
added to his mortgage as hed indicated he wanted to have injury, illness and unemployment 
cover. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B feels strongly that Bradford & Bingley recommended  the 
PPI. But I dont need to make  a decision on this issue because I think  it wouldve been  a 
suitable recommendation for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr B was eligible for the policy.
Mr B told us he couldve relied on getting  at least 12 months sick pay. And he had at least  
six months worth of savings. 
But, the policy wouldve  covered his mortgage  repayments and it wouldve been paid in 
addition to any work benefits  Mr B mightve  got. So I think the policy  couldve provided  a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time  especially if Mr B mightve had extra costs as a result of 
being off work as a result  of illness  or disability. 
As well as this, the policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr B lost his 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ref: DRN79745262It looks to me as if Mr B mightve used at least some of his savings to cover the deposit 
when he took out the mortgage to buy his home.  And, in any event, I dont know  if hed 
always have had savings  to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. 
So I think the policy was suitable for Mr B taking into account  what hes told us about his 
situation at the time.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr B. So, I dont think having more information about when the policy  wouldnt pay 
out wouldve  put him off taking it out.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  
I dont know for instance if Mr B understood the PPI cost at the time he bought  the policy. 
But the cost of the monthly benefit  hed selected  was set out on the mortgage  offer.  And as 
the PPI was offered free of charge to Mr B for the first 6 months  he had plenty of time to 
decide whether  or not he wanted to pay for the policy  to keep it running after the end of the 
free period.  Mr B couldve cancelled the policy at any time without extra financial cost if he 
hadnt wanted to pay for it. And from what  Ive seen, he hasnt  suggested that he couldnt  
afford the monthly  premiums. 
 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr B still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed 
been better informed  as PPI gave him useful protection in his particular situation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7974526