K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that AIB Group  (UK) Plc (trading  as First Trust Bank) added interest and 
charges to his account despite  being  made  aware of his financial difficulties and despite him 
making regular monthly payments through a debt management plan. 
background 
Mr H took out a loan for £3000 in September 2011. The monthly  repayment  was £104.60. 
Mr H contacted First Trust in August  2012  and said he was going to settle the arrears on the 
loan and close the account.  In September 2012  Mr H entered  into a debt management plan. 
The monthly payments  to First Trust were  reduced to £7.84.
First Trust separated the interest  on the loan from the principle balance  so that Mr H didnt  
pay interest on top of interest.
The account  was defaulted on 13 September 2012.  Following  this, First Trust sent a letter  to 
Mr H advising  him that interest  would  continue to accrue until the liability  was discharged.  
Mr H is unhappy that interest has continued to accrue. He complained  to First Trust and 
asked for all interest and charges since 2012  to be refunded.
.
In its final response First Trust  said that following the account defaulting it had told Mr H that 
interest would  continue to accrue on the account.  It said no charges had been applied since 
2012.
Our investigator didnt  feel that First Trust had acted fairly. He said it was unfair to allow an 
account to accrue  interest after it had been  defaulted and that it was usual industry practice 
to suspend interest at the point of default. The investigator recommended that First Trust 
refund all interest accrued since the date of default. 
First Trust didnt agree. It said that it had acted positively and sympathetically  towards  Mr H 
and that it had ceased adding interest directly  to the loan account so that Mr H would not be 
paying interest on top of interest.  It said it had accepted a lesser monthly payment from the 
debt management  company and that it had told the debt management company that interest 
would continue to accrue separately. It said that the terms and conditions of the loan did not 
require interest to stop accruing when  the default  notice  is issued.  It said that Mr H only 
complained after the loan was sold to a third party  (at which point no further interest was 
added). First Trust said that between  2012-2017  Mr H had made no complaint about the 
interest and was aware that it was accruing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at how First Trust treated Mr H when  it was notified of his financial difficulties. I 
would expect First Trust to have treated Mr H positively and sympathetically. There are a 
number of ways  in which a business can do this. Theres no obligation  on a business  to 
accept a particular  level of monthly payment  or to freeze interest and charges. But several 
codes of practice say that a business  should consider stopping or reducing charges and 
Ref: DRN73742402interest on a debt if a consumer is in financial difficulties. These include the Lending  Code 
and the Credit Services Association  Code of Practice.
In this case, First Trust has said that it separated the interest on the loan from the principle 
balance so that Mr H didnt pay interest on top of interest. It also accepted reduced monthly 
payments from Mr H via the debt management  company. This reduced Mr Hs monthly  
payment from £104.60 to £7.84. 
First Trust has said that it isnt obliged to stop charging interest to consumers  who are 
experiencing financial difficulties. But in this case, First Trust issued  a Notice  of Default on 
the account in September 2012. First Trust has said that the terms and conditions of the 
account dont  require them to stop charging interest  once  the account  has been defaulted. It 
has also said that it told Mr H and the debt management company that it was continuing to 
accrue interest. I dont  disagree with the interpretation of the terms and conditions.  And I 
have no reason to doubt that First Trust told Mr H that the loan would continue to accrue  
interest. 
However, I wouldnt expect a business  to continue adding interest to an account over a long 
period where  the consumer is in financial difficulties. And where the account has been 
defaulted (as in this case) I wouldnt expect interest  to accrue after the date when the default  
is applied. Its not in line with standard industry  practice and dont think it is a fair  or 
positive or sympathetic way - for a business to respond.
Ive taken into account all of the other points which First Trust has made in relation to its 
correspondence with the debt management company from 2012-2017 and the lack of 
information about Mr Hs current  assets  and liabilities. But I dont  think this is relevant to the 
issue about which Mr H has complained. First Trust has said that it would have considered 
removing or reducing  accrued interest in the light of supporting evidence. It has said that 
there was an absence of contact from the debt management company with up to date 
information. But on the available evidence the debt management company provided  details 
of Mr Hs income and expenditure at the outset of the debt management  plan and theres no 
evidence that First Trust asked for any further information.
On balance I dont  think First Trust has acted  fairly  because it allowed Mr Hs account  to 
accrue interest after it had been defaulted. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  AIB Group (UK) Plc should  refund the 
account as if no interest  has accrued since the date of default of the account  being 18 
October 2012. A revised balance  must  be provided to the third party  who has purchase d the 
account. For clarification,  Mr H remains liable for the (revised)  balance of the account.
Ref: DRN73742403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7374240