K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what  Lloyds  Bank  PLC has done to put things right following his 
complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr H had PPI protecting a Lloyds credit card. Lloyds charged  Mr H for the PPI based  on how 
much he owed each  month   and he repaid these extra charges, with interest, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the card.
Mr H thinks the policy  was mis-sold. Lloyds investigated the complaint and agreed  it should 
be upheld  so it offered  to put Mr H in the position hed be in if he hadnt bought the policy. 
It has worked out it needs to pay Mr H £6,069.28.
Mr H thinks he should get more. He used a claims management company to bring his 
complaint, and thinks he should  get back the cost of this. He also had questions  about the 
way Lloyds worked out the refund. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  that offer was fair and didnt think 
Lloyds should  pay anything further. Mr H didnt agree  with the adjudicator.  So the complaint  
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed  it shouldnt have sold Mr H the policy. So Ive looked  at whether what it 
has offered is fair.
Where a business agrees  or I decide  that a complaint  about  the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer in the position they would  be in if they 
hadnt bought the policy.
Mr H bought PPI to protect  a credit card. Lloyds charged for the PPI based  on what Mr H 
owed each month  and Mr H repaid these charges, with interest,  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mr H needs  to get this back. And if this means Mr H paid more  
than he owed, he should get interest  to compensate him for the time hes been  out of pocket.
Lloyds has sent us details showing how it worked  out what it needs to pay Mr H. Lloyds says 
the PPI started  in June 2004  and ended in July 2005   and Ive seen copies of Mr Hs credit 
card statements confirming this. Lloyds says that it charged Mr H £1,214.42,  in total, for the 
PPI. And because the balance on Mr Hs account was bigger than it should  have been,  
Lloyds says it charged Mr H an extra £48 in fees.
Lloyds has also worked out that because of the premiums and fees it charged Mr H an extra  
£3,602.28 in interest.
Finally, Lloyds has added interest  the rate is 8% simple per year  when Mr H had to pay 
more towards his account because of the PPI. And it has added interest from when the 
account closed.  Given that the account  was charged off with an outstanding balance   so in 
Ref: DRN77223862fact Mr H hadnt repaid  the extra he borrowed to pay for the PPI  I think  this is a more than 
fair way to compensate Mr H for the time he hasnt had the money.
Ive thought about whether Lloyds  should  pay anything further because  Mr H used a claims 
management company.  I dont think it should.  
I dont think Mr H needed to use a claims management company  Lloyds was required to 
look into a complaint about the sale of PPI, and Mr H could have referred the complaint  to us 
for free if he was still unhappy.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr Hs complaint was particularly complicated or that he 
was told he needed  to use a claims management company if he wanted Lloyds to look at his 
complaint. 
I recognise that Mr H says he tried, unsuccessfully, to complain about PPI in 2015. But 
Lloyds dont have  any record  of him contacting them about  PPI until he did so through  his 
claims management company in March 2018.
For these reasons, I dont  award Mr H the cost of using  a claims management company.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think Lloyds Bank PLC has offered fair compensation for mis-
selling PPI on Mr Hs credit  card.  It should  now pay Mr H if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7722386