K822xcomplaint
Mr K is unhappy about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited handled  his premium 
refund under  his home insurance policy.
background 
Mr K asked to increase  his policy excess and in return this created a refund of premium in 
the region of £6. Mr K chased L&G on a couple  of occasions for the money and it was never 
refunded. L&G decided it should give Mr K £10 compensation. Again this didnt take place 
and Mr K brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He accepted that L&G wrongly informed  Mr K it 
was going to send him the refund of premium.  Instead L&G reduced  the premium  by the 
exact refund  amount as the policy was at renewal date. So our investigator accepted that 
Mr K had got his refund  of premium, but by a different means. He said this was reasonable. 
But he said L&G did fail to explain this to Mr K even though  Mr K had chased for the refund. 
He noted L&G offered  £10 compensation but failed  to pay it. Now that L&G has said it will 
increase the compensation to £20 to deal with the mistakes its made  our investigator said 
this was fair. He said the mistakes were  minor  and the offer is a reasonable one as Mr K 
hasnt lost anything. Mr K didnt accept this and asked  for his complaint to go to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt clear what caused the errors  on L&Gs part and why in trying to resolve these it 
managed to compound the mistakes  and not get the right information to Mr K. I can 
understand that was frustrating for Mr K to deal with as he had to chase up on several  
occasions to try and find out what was going  on.
The records  produced by L&G indicate that even though it said it would refund Mr K it 
removed the refund from his new annual premium. The records  it has produced show that 
the exact amount of the refund  was taken off Mr Ks annual  policy  premium at the time. So it 
looks as though the real error  from L&G was how it failed to communicate  this point to Mr K.
In fairness to L&G in a reasonable  attempt to resolve the matter  it decided the best option 
was to offer Mr K £10 as compensation  for any distress and inconvenience  it had caused  
him. After agreeing  to this L&G then failed  to pay it and Mr K chased again to get the 
payment, but to no avail.
In a further attempt to put the problems right L&G said it will increase the goodwill offer to 
£20 compensation  for the errors it has made. In the circumstances  and based on the details  
of this complaint  I think thats a fair and reasonable offer. I think  its clear from this offer and 
the refund  of the premium  Mr K isnt suffering any financial loss. I also think this amount is 
fair and reasonable in relation to any distress  and inconvenience L&G caused.
In not accepting our investigators view Mr K added other points into his complaint including 
having to bring  is complaint to this service. But it was Mr Ks choice to bring his complaint to 
this service and isnt a reason for me to change the offer L&G has already made.
Ref: DRN77546462my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited  to:
pay Mr K the higher  amount  of compensation it offered him of £20.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7754646