K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002.  Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the mortgage 
payments in case Mr D was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I have  not found  that their PPI policy was 
mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over 17 years ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  regulations Halifax were required to delete Mr and Mrs Ds data rather than 
hold onto it for too long. Meanwhile, Mr and Mrs D dont remember buying  PPI, but I also 
think thats understandable either  way, given just how long ago the sale was, and since  
buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats  most likely to 
have happened  based on the information I have.
Mr D rightly pointed out that historically,  many PPI policies were mis-sold.  But likewise,  many 
were not mis-sold. Thats a reason why we look at each sale on its own circumstances, 
rather than just telling all the businesses to refund every policy  they ever sold. Different PPI 
policies worked  in different ways, were suitable or unsuitable for different people,  and were 
sold using different methods at different times.
In Mr and Mrs Ds sale, Ive not seen any evidence which  shows  that Halifax  added  the 
policy without their permission, or misled  them about whether it was compulsory. Nor have  
I seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time.  Indeed,  from what Ive 
seen of its sales process at the time, it looks  like Halifax wouldve normally  made  it clear  the 
policy was optional and given the customer the choice to take it out or turn it down.  And the 
PPIs cost wouldve  been set out separately  to the cost of the mortgage, rather  than as 
something that was necessarily included. So I have no solid basis on which to fairly conclude  
that Halifax misled Mr and Mrs D, but I do have evidence that it wouldve given them  a fair 
choice. So I think its more likely than not that Halifax made Mr and Mrs D aware they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can 
certainly understand if they no longer recall doing  so after so long.
Ref: DRN77566432Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI for Mr D, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs D Ive assumed it did. 
That means Halifax had to check the PPI was right for Mr D. And based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time, I think it was. For example,  Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations. He only had very limited sick pay through work, 
whereas the PPI covered  him for several  times longer and paid out on top of his existing 
work benefits. And Mr D doesnt seem to have had any other protection  in place  in case  he 
lost his job, which potentially left him at serious risk.
I understand Mr and Mrs D couldve borrowed more against their equity. But that couldve 
been quite difficult  if Mr D was out of work, and even  then it takes  time and theres no 
guarantee they couldve done that before  getting in serious trouble with their mortgage. 
Further, the PPI meant  they wouldnt have to go to the extreme  of taking out even more  
secured borrowing to pay off their existing secured borrowing,  or of running up interest on 
interest. Similarly, Mr and Mrs D had an endowment  policy,  but that would not normally be 
relevant until it matured  a number of years after the sale  or they passed away.   Even  if 
I assume that it was accessible, and that they wouldnt have suffered serious penalties  for 
cashing it in early, it still wouldnt have covered them for nearly  as long as the PPI if it were 
needed to fill in for Mr Ds salary. And again,  the PPI meant  Mr and Mrs D could  protect their 
assets rather than lose them  if Mr D fell on difficult times. Its also worth bearing in mind that, 
no matter what the loan-to-value ratio was, if Mr and Mrs D fell behind  on their mortgage  
then they risked losing  their home.  Overall,  it looks like the PPI couldve really been  useful 
for them in protecting their home and other assets, and in giving some peace  of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs D about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and the PPI couldve really been useful in case something 
went wrong. The policy was not bad value  given how much it would pay out in a claim and it 
looks like it wouldve been affordable. Then  if Mr or Mrs Ds circumstances changed,  they 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  So overall, I dont  think  that better  information  
was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7756643