K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about his home  insurer Fairmead Insurance  Limited in respect of a 
claim he made to it in 2017 when damage  was found to his flat roof following a storm.
background 
In June 2017 Mr A noticed water dripping through his kitchen ceiling  the roof above  is flat. 
Mr A called his broker and said he was advised to get the problem fixed  straight away  and 
he arranged for a roofer to attend  immediately. That was 22 June 2017. The roofer provided 
an invoice and this was later sent to Fairmead, it was dated 2 July 2017.
In September  2017 Mr As broker called Fairmead regarding the damage. The broker  told 
Fairmead the claim had been made  in July but it was unsure what the date of loss was. 
Having checked  some weather data from around  the date the broker said the claim was 
made, Fairmead declined  the claim as it had found no storm conditions had been occurring.
In January 2018 Mr A wrote to Fairmead challenging its decision. He said the loss had 
occurred in June   likely as a result of 70 miles per hour winds  which had occurred  in early 
June. He said hed never told his broker the loss was July. Fairmead  agreed  to review the 
claim and it spoke to the broker.  The broker said it had called Fairmead  before  repairs  were 
done and also emailed it in August 2017. 
Fairmead considered  the revised date of loss and photos of the damage, along with the 
repair invoice. The photos showed  a tile missing from the pitched  roof, and a tile embedded 
in the flat roof, piercing the felt. Fairmead  felt replacing the whole roof was excessive, that 
the felt could have been patched  and if the boarding  had needed replacing that was likely  
as result of long-term damage. It said it would pay £305.92 for the cost of a patch repair  and 
£300 compensation as it accepted there  had been a delay in the settlement.  
Mr A remained unhappy.  He said the tile had damaged the felt which he hadnt  been able to 
notice at the time. When the water  came in later through the kitchen ceiling, this was 
following several weeks of rain, and but for the felt having been pierced  the boarding 
wouldnt have become damaged. He said scaffolding alone cost more than £300. 
Our investigator asked  Fairmead about  scaffolding. It said this cost hadnt been  included in 
its repair cost. It felt a tower would be sufficient  for a patch repair.  It said it would pay a 
further £400 to Mr A to cover scaffolding costs.  Mr A still felt this was unfair.  He said he 
wanted the full cost of the roof repair  being  £4,900 and £2,500 compensation. Our 
investigator felt that what Fairmead had offered, including the scaffolding costs, given 
Fairmead hadnt been able to assess the roof before repairs were completed,  was fair and 
reasonable. He also noted that Fairmead  wasnt responsible for the broker.  Mr A asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont intend to make 
Fairmead do anything  more than that suggested  by our investigator.
Fairmeads records for this claim begin on 15 September 2017.  The repairs had been done 
by this point. Even at the point the broker said it emailed Fairmead in August 2017 the 
Ref: DRN78455362repairs had been  done. There is no evidence which suggests Fairmead knew about  the 
damage and allowed  or authorised work to go ahead, thereby foregoing  any opportunity  it 
might have had to inspect  the roof. Fairmead  was entitled under the policy  to see the 
damage, but because it wasnt afforded this opportunity its claim decision,  when it was 
made, had to largely be based on a few photographs. 
As Fairmead  was initially given a date of July 2017 for the claim, and no date of loss for 
when the damage  occurred,  it was reasonable for it to check the weather for around that 
date. But Fairmead  should have considered the claim  further  at this time anyway, even in the 
absence of storm conditions because Mr As policy contained cover for accidental  damage. 
The fact that it declined it outright at this time lead to several months of delay until Mr A 
challenged its decision, at which point the revised  date was given and weather  records were 
checked again.
In terms of storm the damage  claimed  for has to have been  caused by the storm. The tile 
falling and hitting  the felt clearly occurred because of the storm. But the boarding  underneath  
was said to need replacing. Mr A says that is because it rained in the weeks after and the 
boarding perished.  I havent seen any expert opinion that supports that view  and it is 
usually the case  that boarding for an entire  roof only needs replacing after long-term 
exposure to moisture in more than one area.  And, in any event, rain that followed the storm, 
wasnt the storm itself. I appreciate that Mr A may not have noticed the tile had fallen from 
the main roof  but this fact wasnt hidden from him or in an area where he couldnt 
reasonably have known about  it having occurred. So I think its fair for Fairmead to say it has 
no responsibly for work related to replacing the boarding.
Similarly the cover for accidental damage offers cover for damage which occurs suddenly 
and unexpectedly. The damage to the felt occurred  suddenly  when  the tile fell on it. But the 
boarding was damaged during the weeks following that. So the damage to the boarding 
doesnt fall for cover  under  the accidental damage  section and I think  it was fair for Fairmead  
to decline liability for any repairs associated with this damage.
Fairmead has accepted,  as I say, the cost of repairing the felt. And, following our 
involvement, its added to that the cost of scaffolding  making its entire  offer to settle the 
claim £705.92. Having  considered everything, I think thats fair and reasonable.
Fairmead has also offered  £300 compensation for any upset its original  decline  of the claim 
caused Mr A. I also think that is fair and reasonable. As Im making an award in respect of 
the scaffolding, Ill award  the compensation amount too.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr A:
£705.92 in settlement of his claim.  
£300 compensation.
If Fairmead Insurance Limited has paid any of these sums already, it will only now have to 
pay the difference outstanding.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Ref: DRN78455363Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7845536