K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out with a mortgage in 2003. Mr and Mrs S 
say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax at the time,  mis-sold them  the cover.
background
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total  Mortgage  Protection
Plan (TMPP). A TMPP can be made up of three  different elements  a PPI policy,  life cover 
and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover can be added  or taken out as 
the consumer  wishes. 
The TMPP policy Mr and Mrs S took out only included all three elements of cover. But when 
the case was referred to our service, BoS made  an offer to fully refund the PPI element of 
the policy. So in this decision Ive only considered the life and critical illness elements. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed  there is limited evidence  available  from 
the sale of the policy.  Mr and Mrs S say they didnt  know they were  taking out a policy  or 
what it was for. But it was taken out a long time ago  around  16 years ago  which  is 
something I have to keep  in mind when deciding what I think  is more  likely to have 
happened.
BoS say there was no requirement to take out life and critical illness, or any other insurance 
policies, as a condition of this mortgage. And it says that it wouldve discussed the optional 
insurances with Mr and Mrs S and obtained  their consent before adding  this to their 
mortgage. BoS has also provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage offer. This includes the 
conditions for lending by BoS, but there is no suggestion that any insurance policy was a 
condition of the mortgage.  
So without stronger  evidence  to the contrary and taking everything into account, I think its 
more likely than not that BoS made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs S didnt have  to take out the 
policy and that they chose  to take it out  although I can understand if they cant  remember 
this now.
BoS recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S so it had to make sure the policy was suitable 
for them. Ive considered  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time and I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment  that a decreasing term assurance policy  wouldve been better for 
them than the level term assurance policy they were sold. This is because  the level term 
assurance cover wouldnt go down in line with their mortgage. So, as the remaining 
mortgage reduced, the cover wouldve remained the same  which means they were  paying 
for cover they didnt  need.
The adjudicator felt that had this been made clear to Mr and Mrs S, they wouldnt have taken 
out this cover. However, BoS says that at the time they didnt offer decreasing  tem 
assurance policies  as part of the TMPP package.  And it has also created  a quotation to 
Ref: DRN76561392show what a decreasing term assurance policy  wouldve costed, had they offered it at the 
time. This quote came  back as more  expensive than the cover  Mr and Mrs S were sold. So I 
dont think Mr and Mrs C lost out financially as a result of being over insured.
Mr and Mrs S say that they wouldve had some death in service benefits  from work so they 
didnt need the life cover. However, the life cover they took out with BoS wouldve paid off 
their remaining mortgage if one of them had died  and this wouldve paid out on top of their 
death in service benefits. So these  funds couldve been used to cover other expenses. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs S about the policy wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons I think the policy  was suitable for them, I dont 
think better information about  it wouldve  put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
So overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs S have lost out as a result of anything  Bank  of Scotland  
plc may have done wrong.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656139