K821x#15complaint
Miss E is unhappy about the condition  her car was in when it was returned to her and the 
additional damage done to it while it was in Kindertons Ltd.s care.
background
Miss Es car had been involved  in a road traffic accident and Kindertons  was instructed to 
arrange for her car to be repaired. As Miss E understood  her car was still driveable she 
agreed for it to be returned whilst liability for the accident was being decided. 
But when the car was returned she said it was dirty and there were  sticker marks on her 
windscreen. She also said neither her battery nor her key were working.
Miss E said she had to pay £60 to get her car cleaned and that there hadnt been  any 
problems with her battery or key before the accident.
Kindertons said the recovery agents  it used had accepted the car was returned in a poor 
condition and had offered  to pay Miss E £50. But said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
theyd caused  any additional damage. Miss E wasnt happy  with the response and referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Miss E had suffered a financial  loss because of what  had happened.  
He said Kindertons should refund Miss E the cost of getting her car cleaned - £60 and pay 
her £50 for the trouble  and upset this had caused.  He agreed there wasnt  evidence  to 
support the damage to the key and battery had been caused by the recovery  agents used by 
Kindertons.
Kindertons didnt agree  as it said Miss Es car hadnt  been repaired but only stored and so 
the car wouldnt be in a pristine condition when returned.  It also said the cost Miss E paid for 
her car to be cleaned  was excessive. Its asked for an ombudsman to decide.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
This services role isnt to punish businesses when  things have gone wrong. Instead its to 
look at the impact of whats happened and, where  possible, decide on what  should  happen  
to put things right. In reaching my decision Ive considered whats  gone  wrong  and how 
thats impacted  someone and what was done by both parties to lessen the impact of that 
worry or frustration. 
Ref: DRN72805652Its not in dispute  that Miss Es car was returned in a poor state. She has said it was mouldy 
and dirty on the inside,  her keys wouldnt unlock the car and the battery was flat because of 
water ingress. But I havent seen  any evidence to show  whether the damage  to the key and 
battery was as a result  of the accident  or while it was in Kindertons care. So I wont 
comment further on these.
But Miss E has shown there were white marks and stickers on her car and it was also dirty 
inside. She has also said despite having  the premium clean the sticker  marks are still visible  
and I have no reason  to doubt this. 
I accept Miss E might  have been  able to get her car cleaned for less. But the car was 
returned to her in an unfit state,  and she has had the trouble and expense of having to get it 
cleaned. Having seen  the photographs and Miss Es description of her car being  mouldy I 
can understand her choosing to get the premium service. It was Miss Es choice to do this 
but I dont think  its fair that she should suffer a financial loss because  she has. So Im 
satisfied she should be refunded the full amount of £60.
Being involved  in an accident  is always upsetting. So Id expect Kindertons, in managing a 
claim, to try to make sure any further  trouble and upset is kept to a minimum. And while  I 
accept Miss Es car wasnt being stored by Kindertons, I think  it should have made sure that 
Miss Es car would be returned to her in a fit state. And because this didnt happen it has 
caused Miss E trouble  and upset in having to get her car put right.
So I agree with our investigator that Kindertons  should pay £50 for the trouble and upset this 
caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Kindertons Ltd to:
refund  Miss E £60 for the cost of her car being  cleaned; and
pay Miss E £50 for the trouble and upset  that has been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7280565