K821x#15complaint
Mr V says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background 
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to uphold  Mr Vs complaint and 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  representations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both Mr V and Halifax confirmed that 
theyd received and read my provisional  decision. And both parties confirmed that they 
accepted it.
In view of this, and the absence  of any further information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and require Bank  of Scotland plc to pay compensation as set out in the 
provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN79351532copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr V says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about  a credit card PPI policy taken out in October  2003. The policy was added to 
Mr Vs credit  card account  when he applied  for the card in person. The policy cost 78p per £100 of the 
outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would  repay 10% of the outstanding  
balance at the point  of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, I think 
this complaint should be upheld.
The information Halifax gave Mr V about the cost of the policy and its benefits  wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Ive seen  a copy of the application form. This is the point at which Mr V shouldve 
been given clear  information about the costs. But I cant see from this form that he wouldve been 
made aware at all in real terms how much the policy was going to cost him. There  were no examples 
of what  this would mean for him in practical terms. And there was no mention  of whether he would 
have to pay premiums during a claim  or how interest would be charged on the premiums if there was 
an outstanding balance. So I dont think Mr V was made aware of the true costs of the policy. 
I think  this information wouldve mattered  to Mr V and given his circumstances at the time, I think he 
would have decided  against taking out the PPI policy if he had received  clearer information about the 
costs and benefits. Mr V has told us he was entitled to very generous sick pay from his employer; six 
months full pay, followed by six months pay at 75%,  followed  by six months  half pay  more than 
more than enough to manage his credit  card balance comfortably. 
As a result, I dont think Mr V wouldve  been  overly concerned about making the credit card 
repayments if he was sick, had an accident  or lost his job. If Mr V had understood the on-going cost 
and what the benefit was in real terms in the event of a claim, I dont think  he wouldve agreed to buy 
the policy.  In other words, I think hes likely to have considered that he had sufficient means  to make 
the repayments and I dont consider he would  have  found  the benefit  attractive enough  to take out the 
policy if he had fully understood it.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that if Halifax  had provided  Mr V with information  that 
was clear, fair and not misleading, he wouldnt have  taken  out the PPI policy.
It follows that I think this complaint should be upheld.  
Ref: DRN79351533fair compensation
In accordance with our normal approach, Mr V should be put back in the position  he would have been 
in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. I understand the PPI policy has been cancelled so:
A.Halifax should find out how much Mr V would owe on his credit  card if the policy hadnt  been 
added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
Halifax should  then refund the difference between what Mr V owes  and what he would  have 
owed.
If Mr V made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.
B.If  when Halifax works out what  Mr V would have owed each month without  PPI  Mr V paid 
more than enough  to clear his balance,  Halifax should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mr V 
paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Mr V would  have owed  Halifax 
something on his credit  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.Halifax should tell Mr V what it has done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax  must  give Mr V a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think this complaint should be upheld.
I now invite  Mr V, and Bank of Scotland Plc to give me any further information  theyd like me to 
consider before I make  my final decision.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7935153