K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the interest applied to his credit agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. And hes unhappy about the entries on his credit  file 
relating to this credit  agreement.
background
Mr P took out a credit agreement with Creation in March  2017. The credit  agreement was a 
restricted use agreement with an overall credit limit of £5000 where Mr P could make  
multiple purchases under one agreement. 
As part of this agreement, Mr P purchased an iPad. It held a special offer rate of buy now, 
pay later which meant  Mr P wouldnt incur any interest  costs  if he paid this part of the 
agreement off before September  2017.
Mr P paid off the iPad agreement in April 2017;  however the overall  agreement  wasnt 
closed until November 2017 when Mr P requested this through our service.
In relation to the credit  agreement, fees and interest, Mr P is unhappy  that;
Creations  system shows a monthly  interest  rate of 1.52% and an APR of 19.76%  
(without fees),
the agreement  Mr P signed showed  a monthly  interest rate of 1.524%  and an APR of 
19.9%,
Mr P believes 0.14%  commission may have been exchanged between the broker  
and the creditor  and he wasnt told about this,
the interest rate wasnt explained  to him properly,
he wasnt aware the credit limit was £5000.
And in relation to his credit  file, Mr P is unhappy that;
Creation created an entry  on his credit file in February 2017 but the agreement 
wasnt taken out until March 2017,
the credit  file shows no updates between February 2017 and May 2017 and then 
turns inactive,
the agreement  was still showing on his credit file despite paying  it off in April 2017,
the agreement  was recorded as a credit card  which is incorrect.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ps complaint  didnt uphold it. In summary,  he thought the 
APR and interest rate was the same but Creation  had chosen to display it differently (three  
decimal points instead  of two) on their system. And he hadnt seen Mr P had suffered  
financially because he paid the agreement before any interest  was charged. The investigator 
was also satisfied Mr P would have been  aware  of the type of agreement he had, and the 
overall credit limit. And he was happy  that the credit file was showing accurate information  in 
relation to the status of the account.  And as there wasnt  an option for a restricted use 
entry, he thought  a credit card  entry  was the most appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr P remained unhappy  so the complaint  has been  passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN74575422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr P greatly, so Ive 
explained my reasoning  further below.
the credit  agreement, fees and interest
Mr P took out an agreement with Creation which allowed him to purchase multiple items 
under one agreement. Ive seen the paperwork which was provided to Mr P and in particular 
the Important Customer  Information document. This clearly states the overall credit limit is 
£5000. Ive also seen a statement dated April 2017  which was sent to Mr P. The statement 
gives details on the current balance, available credit and overall credit limit. Therefore, I cant 
fairly say Mr P wasnt  aware  of the credit limit he had.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about  the interest rate and APR.  And I appreciate why 
he would  be concerned the agreement  he signed  and Creations system show  different 
figures.
The investigator has explained that theres  no regulatory requirement  to display the monthly  
interest rate to three decimal places, however Creation chose to do this on the agreement  
itself. Because  of that, the rate showed  as 1.524% monthly interest. However,  on their 
system it shows  as 1.52%. I understand Mr Ps concern with this but Im satisfied the overall 
rate is the same and the way it is displayed is different.
Ive also considered Mr Ps comments about the difference  in APR being paid as 
commission between Creation and the broker. However, I havent seen anything to suggest 
this is the case.  
Ive found that there isnt a difference  in the interest rates being charged,  however, even if 
there was, Ive seen  Mr P paid off his credit agreement before  the buy now,  pay later offer 
ended. And therefore, I dont consider the interest rate has affected him or the payments 
hes made in any way. Therefore, based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied  Mr P hasnt 
lost out as a result of any difference in interest  rate.
the credit  report
Mr P is concerned that Creation  recorded  the agreement  in question as a credit card. I 
recognise the type of agreement Mr P has isnt a credit card.  Its a restricted  use credit 
agreement which allows Mr P to buy multiple items from the same supplier, up to the credit 
limit available. 
There isnt a valid entry from the credit reference  agencies which allows  the agreement to be 
recorded as a restricted use. And taking into account the overall use of the agreement, I 
think it most closely  matches that of a credit  card. So I dont find it unreasonable the 
agreement has been recorded in this way.
Mr P has raised concerns that Creation recorded an entry on his credit file in February 2017 
even though the agreement with them didnt start until March  2017. Ive reviewed Mr Ps 
credit file and I havent seen an entry  from Creation in February 2017.
Ref: DRN74575423The entry from Creation  started in March 2017 and until June 2017 was recorded as U. The 
credit reference agencies have confirmed a U recording means unclassified. More  simply, 
that means a payment isnt due or an agreement  has been recently opened. Ive considered  
this entry  alongside  the payments Mr P made to his credit agreement  and I consider it 
reasonable. I say that because Mr P opened the agreement in March 2017, and paid off the 
current balance in April 2017.  Therefore,  during this time I do find the U recording to be the 
most appropriate.
From July 2017 to November 2017, Mr Ps credit  file shows  the agreement as N. This 
means the facility  hasnt  been used. While Mr P paid off the iPad part of the agreement, he 
didnt ask Creation  to close the whole agreement until November 2017. Therefore, I find this 
recording a true reflection of this agreements  status. The full credit limit of £5000  was 
available for Mr P to use if he wished  to, but he didnt.
As Mr P closed the agreement in full in November 2017 its reasonable that from this date 
the agreement  is showing as settled on Mr Ps credit  file.
overall
I know how strongly Mr P feels about  this issue overall, but I cant  fairly conclude  Creation 
have done anything wrong.  And therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything.
my final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained  above, my final decision  is that I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7457542