K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs W complained they were  mis-sold  a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  by Bradford  & Bingley PLC (B&B) when they took out a mortgage. 
background
Mr A and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1994  and at the same time purchased a PPI policy. 
The policy was to cover  Mr A. In the event of a successful  claim if he wasnt  able to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment  it would have paid a monthly  amount of 
£320 for up to 12 months per claim. The policy cost £22.24 per month. The mortgage was 
redeemed and the policy cancelled in November 2000.  
Our adjudicator didn't think  Mr A and Mrs Ws complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr A and Mrs W 
disagreed, so the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding Mr A and Mrs Ws case. 
And having done so, Ive decided to reject Mr A and Mrs Ws complaint, and Ill explain why. 
I think that B&B made Mr A and Mrs W aware they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
that they chose  to take it. The mortgage  and the PPI were  taken  out 25 years ago and 
cancelled in 2000. So, unsurprisingly there is little information or paperwork available. But 
this isnt unusual  considering the time since the sale took place and businesses arent 
obliged to keep  paperwork  indefinitely. 
But I have seen a copy of the mortgage  application  and insurance proposal  which  has been 
completed by hand and signed and dated by Mr A and Mrs W. It is not a very good copy but 
I can see yes has been answered in response to the question  of whether they wanted PPI. 
If Mr A and Mrs W hadnt wanted to take the policy I wouldnt have expected  them to have 
replied yes to this questions. 
Further questions have  been responded to as has a calculation of what cover was needed  
for Mr A - £250 for loan repayments  (a car loan was outstanding with a monthly payment due 
of £152) and £70 for insurance  premiums (which I assume included the buildings and 
contents insurance that was also taken). So a total of £320 per month. Again this shows to 
me that Mr A and Mrs W were made  aware  they had a choice  as they chose  the amount of 
cover they would need to cover essential expenses.  
B&B say it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A and Mrs W but their recollection  is that advice 
was given. From what Ive seen there isnt enough  for me to conclude  that advice  was given. 
And while I dont doubt that Mr A and Mrs W have given their honest recollections  of the sale 
I do accept that after 25 years memories can, and do, fade. And buying insurance isnt a 
particularly memorable experience. 
Ref: DRN73627112By not giving  advice  B&B didnt have to check if it was right for Mr A and Mrs W but it did 
have to give them clear  information about the PPI so they could ensure it was right for them, 
and from what Ive seen  it was. 
Mr A was employed at the time of the sale and Mrs W was retired.  Mr A has told us he would 
have received three months pay from his employer if he wasnt  able to work.  But in the event 
of a successful claim the policy would have  paid out over any above any employee benefits 
he may have received  and for much longer. Those  employee benefits could have been used 
for other essential  outgoings. The policy would have also paid out if Mr A had become 
involuntarily unemployed. 
Mr A and Mrs W have  said they could have relied  upon Mrs Ws pension  to make the 
monthly repayments if they had needed  to. Ive given this careful consideration. If Mr A was 
out of work for a lengthy period and his employee  benefits stopped after three months, then I 
think he would have  struggled to meet the mortgage repayments. And I dont think  that 
Mrs Ws pension   which may have been of use in the short  term - would have been a 
suitable way of meeting the longer term repayments. I think Mrs Ws pension was needed  for 
her own day-to-day and monthly  living expenses.
All things  considered, I think Mr A could have benefited from the cover.  Particularly bearing 
in mind that taking  a mortgage is a large and long-term financial commitment.  The penalties 
for not keeping up with repayments are significant, even going so far as losing your home. 
The PPI gave Mr A a financial comfort he wouldnt otherwise have had.
I dont know what information B&B gave Mr A and Mrs W or how it was presented  to them,  
so its possible they didn't  get everything they needed. But I cant see that Mr A was subject 
to any of the exclusions or limitations on the policy  a pre-existing medical condition  as an 
example.  
Its possible B&B could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But it looks 
like the PPI was affordable and as Ive said above,  the policy would have been useful for 
Mr A if something went wrong. So I dont  think better  information about the costs would have 
put Mr A and Mrs W off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account Mr A and Mrs Ws comments, including what  they said about not 
being given detailed information about the policy and thinking  they had to have  it when they 
could have used  Mrs Ws pension. But because of what Ive said,  these points dont change 
my mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73627113
Ref: DRN7362711