K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr M says American Express Services Europe Limited (American  Express)  mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr M says he thought his application for the PPI formed part of the process  for 
getting his card.  So Ive thought about this carefully. American Express has provided 
a copy of the application form Mr M completed  to show  he wanted PPI. He ticked a 
box to apply for it. He could have left it blank if he didnt want it. He has signed and 
dated the application form to show he accepted  the details on the form. And theres 
nothing written on the application which might  have  made Mr M think  he had to tick 
the box to get his credit card.
I can also see Mr M applied for the PPI again in 1999. Mr Ms application was 
acknowledged by American Express who confirmed that its records  showed that he 
had already enrolled for PPI in 1997.  I also think it would have shown as a separate  
entry on Mr Ms credit card statements. If Mr M didnt  know  what this charge was for, 
or hadnt agreed to take out the policy,  I think  he would have queried this with 
American Express at the time. Overall, I think American Express made  it clear  that 
Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this
As this application was completed by post, American Express didnt recommend the 
PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it met his needs. But it did have to make  sure 
Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means American Express doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr M.
But American Express will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr M about that. Because 
American Express didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN70420912To put that right, American Express has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about not being given 
an explanation  about what the policy covered  and about his sick pay. But these  points dont 
change my decision.
Mr M hasnt  been able to provide evidence of his sick pay and as he wasnt advised about 
the policy it was up to him to decide  whether or not he wanted it taking into account  his 
circumstances.
But Ive still thought about what hes told us and this policy would have paid out for up to 24 
months - so it would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay he received from work and 
likely for longer. So he could use any sick pay or savings he had for other  essential  living  
expenses. And Ive explained that although the information might not have been as clear as 
it could have been it still could have been useful. So I dont  think  he would likely have 
changed his mind about buying it.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  done  so already, American  Express has to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  American Express should 
also pay back to Mr M any extra interest he paid because of that.
American Express should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the 
difference between  what  Mr M owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. American Express  should also pay 
Mr M 8%* simple  interest if he paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt 
done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7042091