K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society Limited 
unreasonably increased  the price of his unemployment insurance policy.
background
In 2016, Mr O took out a life assurance  policy and an unemployment  insurance  policy  with 
Royal London. The policies  were  also protected by a waiver of premium (unemployment)  
insurance policy so that he wouldnt need  to pay the premiums for up to twelve months in the 
event he was made involuntarily  unemployed.
In 2017, Royal London wrote to Mr O to explain it had made  a mistake in calculating  the cost 
of the unemployment cover  and waiver of premium  (unemployment) benefit with the result 
that he was paying too little for his cover. While  it wouldnt seek  to recover the amount  by 
which it had so far undercharged,  it said that unfortunately the premium  would  have to rise 
by an expected 44% at the next policy anniversary date to reflect  the true cost of the cover.
Mr O complained to Royal London. He said hed been enticed into taking out the cover on 
the basis it was among  the most competitive in the marketplace and because of Royal  
Londons reputation. He considered the price rise to be unreasonable  and said hed been  
disadvantaged by Royal Londons  error.
Royal London apologised and offered £100  compensation. However, it explained that under 
the terms of the policy it was entitled to review  the premiums at each anniversary so it was 
satisfied it was acting  in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Mr O was unhappy at Royal  Londons  response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  
Royal London had acted reasonably.
Mr O didnt accept the investigators  findings.  He said if hed known what  the cost of the 
Royal London cover  should really have  been,  he would have taken out cover  with another 
insurer instead. He considered hed now lost the opportunity to gain the prices which the 
other insurers were offering.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Royal London has explained that it made a mistake in the pricing of the policy  and as a 
result was charging significantly less than it should  have been  for the cover from the outset.  
This error didnt just affect  Mr O; it affected all policyholders who had taken out this type of 
cover. I see no reason  to dispute  Royal Londons  explanation. I have no grounds for 
supposing that it deliberately chose to charge less at the outset and then increase the price.   
Ref: DRN71342232When it discovered its error, Royal London wrote to Mr O to alert him. It assured him it 
wouldnt seek to recover the amount  it had undercharged but explained the amount by which 
it expected premiums to increase at the next anniversary.  It said it would write to confirm  the 
actual increase six weeks before this was due to take effect.
The premiums for the unemployment cover and the waiver of premium  (unemployment) 
benefit, unlike the premium  for Mr Os life assurance  policy,  were not guaranteed.  The policy 
document makes  clear that they could instead  be reviewed at each anniversary of the policy  
start date and states: If you have reviewable premiums, they could change significantly. 
The document says that, when reviewing the premiums, Royal  London would take account 
of a range  of factors. Im satisfied Royal London  was entitled to review the premiums at the 
next anniversary of Mr Os plan and to adjust them to reflect  the true cost of the cover.
Mr O says hes been disadvantaged because if hed known  the true cost hed have chosen 
to take out unemployment  cover with another provider. However,  he chose to take out 
policies with reviewable premiums so there  was always the risk that these would significantly 
increase in price. If hed chosen a similar  policy from another insurer  there  is no guarantee 
that he would now have cheaper cover  than that offered by Royal London.  And theres 
nothing stopping him from now switching to another  provider should he so wish.  So I cant  
reasonably conclude that hes been  disadvantaged by Royal  Londons error. On the 
contrary, he has paid less for his cover over the past two years than the true commercial 
rate.
It is unfortunate that Royal  London made its error.  However, since  it discovered this I think it 
has acted in a reasonable way. If Mr O wishes, he may cancel his unemployment  cover  
without affecting  his life assurance policy. Royal London has already  offered Mr O £100 
compensation. I dont  think  it needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7134223