K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained about her home  insurer esure Insurance Limited  (Esure)  in relation to 
a claim she made to it after a burglary.
background
Mrs M was burgled. She made a claim to Esure. Esure said that in excess of 100 items were 
claimed for. Esure asked  Mrs M for proof that she owned the items. Mrs M was unhappy with 
Esures request  she said she simply had no evidence of having owned some  of the items 
stolen. Esure said the policy  required her to substantiate her claim and whilst it was 
prepared to accept  various items as evidence of ownership, it did need  to see at least  
something for each  item claimed for.
Mrs M complained to us. She said shed constantly had to chase her claim with Esure and its 
requests for substantiation werent fair. Esure provided an update,  it said further  settlement 
under the claim  had been made. It provided a list to us of ten jewellery items outstanding for 
which no evidence of ownership had been provided.  It felt it should have been possible to 
evidence the majority  of these by bank statements or warranties and/or photographs.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint. He didnt identify any delay in its 
progression, although  he did note Esure had accepted it had delayed in progressing the 
complaint Mrs M had made. He felt it wasnt unreasonable for Esure to ask for proof, 
particularly as the policy allowed it to.
Mrs M was unhappy. She felt it wasnt fair for Esure to insist  on seeing  proof  for every  item 
claimed for; she certainly  hadnt  expected that this would be the case from the policy 
wording. She asked  for an ombudsmans consideration.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy does allow Esure to ask for proof of ownership and value of items  lost. But even if 
Esure hadnt set this out in its policy, it would still be able to ask for that. Thats because it is 
always up to the policyholder to show their loss  and part of that is showing that they owned 
the item/items claimed for.
That said this service  encourages insurers  to not insist on proof for absolutely  every item 
claimed for. Thats because most people wouldnt keep receipts for every  console game or 
dvd they own, for example. And we also encourage insurers to be flexible in regard to what  
sort of evidence theyd  expect to see to show ownership or value; sometimes  a photo and a 
description will be sufficient. Thats even the case where items have been recently 
purchased if receipts  have not been kept. But unless or until proof for the majority of the 
items is presented an insurer can insist  on seeing  proof of ownership before settling for 
claimed for items, even those that have been  inherited or given as gifts.
Ref: DRN72353662If Mrs M has any further proof that she owned  outstanding items that Esure  hasnt yet settled 
for, she should provide that proof to it. Esure can then consider whether further settlement 
fairly needs to be paid.
I havent seen  that esure caused any delays  regarding  this claim or that it handled it badly. 
Whilst I see it has offered some compensation for upset caused  by its handling of the 
complaint Mrs M made, that isnt something  I can comment  on.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.  
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7235366