K820x#14complaint
Mr F  on behalf of Company H  complains that Metro Bank PLC are refusing to reimburse 
his legal costs.
background
Mr F was the victim of a scam  and had £21,000 taken from his companys account with 
Metro Bank  on 19 December 2018.  He contacted  Metro  Bank  as soon as he realised in an 
attempt to recover the funds. However, Mr F says he did not receive  any firm reassurance 
that his money  would be recovered, and he did not feel they were  handling the matter  with 
any urgency, so he instructed a firm of solicitors  (Firm M) on 20 December 2018 to assist  
him in recovering the money from Metro Bank.
Metro Bank  were able to recover £336.86 from the beneficiary bank, but they were  unable to 
recover the remaining  funds. And having investigated the fraud,  they initially did not consider 
they were liable to repay the remaining £20,663.14 that had been stolen. However, they 
subsequently refunded  the money on 11 March 2019 following further discussions with 
Firm M.
Given that Mr F successfully obtained  a refund  of the money that was taken, he said that 
Metro Bank  should  also reimburse his legal fees.  But they declined to pay his costs, as they 
said it was free to raise  a complaint and that it was not necessary to appoint legal 
representatives. Mr F complained. In summary,  he said it was necessary and proportionate 
to appoint solicitors because:
There was no reassurance from Metro  bank that the money  would be returned and 
they did not provide adequate comfort in this regard;
He was concerned  with the way they were handling the matter  and they displayed  no 
urgency, such that he did not think it was being treated seriously enough;
It was only as a result  of Firm Ms involvement that the money was refunded;
He could have  issued proceedings early on but Metro Bank asked that he refrain  
from doing so as they considered it to be premature. And it is unfair that they are now 
refusing to refund his legal costs  simply because no claim was issued. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, as she didnt think it was necessary for Mr F to 
have appointed legal representatives  in order to bring his complaint to Metro Bank or to this 
service. Mr F disagreed,  so the matter had been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mr F submits that the legal fees he incurred in submitting his complaint to Metro Bank should 
be reimbursed. The power to award costs is set out in the rules that govern our procedures. 
The guidance to the relevant rule is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook 
(DISP 3.7.10) which states:
Ref: DRN72906512In most cases complainants should not need to have professional advisers to bring 
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman  Service, so awards of costs  are unlikely to 
be common.
I appreciate this guidance talks about  the costs involved in bringing a complaint  to our 
service. But our service also takes the same approach  to considering  any costs involved in 
appointing professional advisers to make  a complaint to a business  in the first instance. And 
the Financial Ombudsman Service only awards  compensation for such professional fees 
where, in the ombudsmans view, it was necessary for the consumer to have incurred these 
fees in order to bring the complaint, which I do not consider  it was.  
Mr F says he was not given reassurance  from Metro Bank that his companys money would 
be returned, and that he was concerned about the way they were handling the matter. I 
appreciate he may not have received an answer straight away, but it can take time for a 
bank to investigate  an act of fraud to determine whether they are liable for the 
misappropriated funds.  And I do not consider that this necessitated the appointment of 
solicitors to act upon Mr Fs concerns, as he could have  raised a complaint to Metro Bank 
himself in this regard (and subsequently to our service if he remained dissatisfied)  without  
incurring any fees. 
Mr F also submits  that it was only as a result of Firm Ms involvement that his money was 
refunded. But Im not persuaded  this was the case, as Ive seen  nothing  to suggest  that his 
money would  not have  been refunded without the solicitors involvement. In the same  way 
this service considers  complaints, we expect businesses  to act and handle  complaints in line 
with relevant law, regulations and good  industry  practice  irrespective of how the case  is 
presented. And if Metro  decided not to refund Mr Fs money  in circumstances where  they 
should have, this service  would  have  asked them to put things right by doing so  (again, 
irrespective of how the case is presented by either side). So I do not accept that Mr F would 
not have had his money  reimbursed if he had not been professionally  represented. 
Mr F also says he could  have issued proceedings early on but Metro Bank asked that he 
refrain from doing so as they considered it to be premature. Given that Metro Bank were still 
considering the matter,  it most likely would have been premature to issue  proceedings  
particularly as the Civil Procedure Rules also require the parties  to only use litigation as a 
last resort (after exploring alternative dispute resolution options, for example). But in any 
event, it was Mr Fs prerogative to decide  whether  or not he wanted  to issue proceedings, 
and I dont consider  the fact that he refrained  from doing so to mean that Metro ought  to be 
liable for his legal costs.  
So, in summary,  I consider that Mr F could  have brought his complaint regarding the stolen 
money to both Metro  Bank and this service  without the use of professional advisers,  and the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  would have considered the relevant issues  as part of our 
process. I therefore do not consider  it appropriate to make a costs award. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020
Jack Ferris
Ref: DRN72906513ombudsman
Ref: DRN7290651