K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (Volkswagen) terminated 
his Hire Purchase Agreement. He would like Volkswagen to reinstate the agreement.
background
Mr J says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Volkswagen for a new car in 
September 2015.He  says the car was faulty  so it had to go back  to the garage a number  of 
times.
He says the dealership told him not to make  any finance payments and it would give him a 
new car, which it subsequently did. However  he says there are now arrears on his 
agreement and Volkswagen has said it is going to repossess the car. Mr J says there  are 
only three outstanding payments, which he offered to make,  but Volkswagen refused this 
offer which he feels is unfair.
Volkswagen said it contacted  Mr J a number of times about arrears  on his account. As the 
situation wasnt resolved it terminated the agreement in accordance  with its terms and 
conditions. It also said it didnt feel Mr Js complaint was within  our jurisdiction to consider 
because the car was for business use only and the agreement for over £25,000.
Our investigator felt the complaint was within our jurisdiction to consider. She noted Mr J and 
a third party representative used the car for both business and personal use. And for it to fall 
outside of our jurisdiction  the car had to be used for purely business  purposes,  which she 
didnt believe was the case.
Looking then at the merits of the case, she didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that due 
to faults with a previous car Volkswagen replaced the car under the same agreement terms. 
She found that Mr J had been given sufficient  notice and opportunity to clear the outstanding 
balance on his account but hadnt  done so. So she felt Volkswagen  had acted fairly.
Volkswagen accepted this view but Mr J didnt. He said there was no proof that Volkswagen 
told him it had switched vehicles on the agreement,  and he queried what investigation had 
been carried out on the principal of the dealership,  and why there  had been no reference to 
the fact he constantly  failed  Volkswagens security  questions when he gave  the correct  
information.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said the arrears  on 
the account had already accrued prior to the car being changed. She said Mr J wouldnt 
pass Volkswagens  identification if he didnt provide correct information. But she noted a 
third party representative  who contacted  Volkswagen  on Mr Js behalf had passed security.
Mr J didnt accept this view and asked  for an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70408852I have dealt with the issues  of jurisdiction  in a separate view so , other than to note I do 
consider the complaint to be within our jurisdiction to consider, I am not going to go into that 
in this view.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr J didnt make some  payments on his Hire Purchase 
Agreement. Or that the agreement that Mr J signed  clearly stated that if payments are 
missed Volkswagen may terminate the agreement, which is what Volkswagen has done.
Mr J says that as his car was faulty Volkswagen told him not to make any payments until it 
replaced the car, which it subsequently did  under  the same terms as the first car. But I 
cant find any evidence to support this in the customer notes Volkswagen has given.  In  one 
call with Mr Js third party representative it is noted that she says she isnt going to make  any 
payments, but she was then advised of the implications not keeping up with payments.
I am not going  to go into the detail  of all the conversations logged in the customer  notes. Our 
investigator provided a comprehensive list of the relevant points in her view.  However,  its 
clear from these notes that Mr Js third party representative was in discussion with 
Volkswagen regularly from May 2017 to December  2017.
From June 2017 onwards the calls are all about  the missed payments; agreements to make 
these payments; disputing  if the payments had been  made or not; advising that payments 
need to be made; and then chasing arrears.
I have also noted  that Volkswagen sent three  letters (which I have seen); a default  notice  
with a request  for the outstanding balance to be paid by 4 December 2017; a further request 
for payment by 30 March 2018; and a letter saying Volkswagen considered the agreement  to 
have been repudiated  dated 21 June 2017.
Mr J says he didnt get the first letter as it went to his business premises that he wasnt  
using. I am surprised Mr J didnt make arrangements  for his post to be sent onto him. But 
even if I accepted he didnt get the first letter. He hasnt said he didnt get the next two. And I 
cant accept he wasnt aware the account was in arrears since that is clear  from the regular  
contact his third party  representative had during 2017.
Mr J feels its unfair  to terminate his agreement on the basis  he only missed three payments, 
and has since offered to pay the outstanding  balance. 
I might  be inclined to agree that for Volkswagen  to terminate Mr Js contract  on the basis  of 
three missed payments in itself might  be quite harsh   but there is nothing in the contract  
that Mr J signed that says it cant do this. So technically it hasnt done anything wrong.
But I dont think that is the situation  here.  Not only are there   three missed payments, but 
Volkswagen engaged with Mr Js third party representative over a number of months and the 
arrears still werent paid off.  So I dont  think it was unreasonable of Volkswagen to decide  to 
terminate the contract. I felt it gave Mr J every  opportunity to make good the account but he 
didnt do so.
So on that basis, I dont  feel I can reasonably  ask Volkswagen to re-instate the contract  as 
Mr J would like. 
I understand that Mr J still has possession  of the car .And that Volkswagen has been 
awaiting this decision in order  to re possess the car. I see no reason why it now cant  go 
ahead and do so.
Ref: DRN70408853my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7040885