K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc made errors in handling and recording her debt 
background 
In 2012 Mrs W got into financial difficulties and entered to an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA). The IVA was concluded  in July 2016. In December 2010 she had 
opened a store card account  which was operated  by Santander. In 2018  she complained to 
this service that her credit file still showed she owed  this debt.
We referred the matter  to Santander to allow it to respond. It said that Mrs W had missed a 
number of payments  and her account was defaulted in 2012.  It had no record  of the IVA and 
added that the account  was settled in February  2014.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended  Santander 
pay Mrs W compensation of £300.  She obtained Santanders file and sought further 
clarification. It was unclear if the direct  debits had stopped or whether there had been a 
system error. She also asked Santander why Mrs Ws credit file was still showing the debt as 
outstanding when it said it had been  repaid  in 2014.
She contacted the IVA supervisor who said Santander had been notified  of the IVA, but had 
failed to submit a proof of debt which was why it wasnt  paid any dividend.  
The investigator concluded that Santander had defaulted the account  without being certain 
that the direct debits  had not been  paid. Nor could she see that it had notified Mrs W of the 
default. She was satisfied  that it had been notified  of the IVA and that it hadnt  acted on that 
knowledge. She acknowledged that Santander  had since arranged for Mrs Ws credit file to 
be updated showing the account  as being cleared.
Mrs W didnt agree and said that court action should not have been taken as she had 
entered an IVA. She also said that she hadnt  paid off the debt in 2014 which was another  
error by the business. She believed  Santander  had been irresponsible  and had affected her 
credit status  since her IVA had ended.  She also believed it had affected  her ability  to obtain 
a mortgage and she had had to pay rent which  was more  expensive.
Santander said it had contacted Mrs W about  the default, but it accepted that it had made 
assumptions about the direct debits and it wasnt aware of why it had not responded to the 
IVA. It agreed that it had recorded incorrect information on Mrs Ws credit file which  it 
subsequently corrected. 
There was some confusion as to whether it had registered a county court  judgment  CCCJ)  
and with Mrs Ws assistance it was established that Santander had done  so. She expressed 
her annoyance at Santanders failure  to keep proper records and wondered if it was 
deliberately lying.  Santander provided a letter for the court to allow  it to remove the CCJ from 
Mrs Ws credit file. It said that this was linked to the failure to update her records  in 2014 and 
it believed the compensation of £300 should not be changed. Mrs W was not impressed by 
Santanders errors. The investigator asked for evidence of how the errors had impacted Mrs 
W. 
Ref: DRN70833162She said the CCJ recorded on her credit file had affected her ability to borrow. The 
investigator said that Santander  had provided  a letter to the court so that it could now be 
removed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ws irritation at the errors made by Santander.  It seems  that it was 
unclear as to the status of the direct  debits and it didnt take action in respect of the IVA. I 
am satisfied  that it was notified by the supervisor and for some reason this information  didnt  
reach the part of the business  which dealt with store cards.  This meant that it defaulted the 
account and took out a CCJ.
While I appreciate Mrs Ws annoyance at Santanders recent inability to trace detailed 
records of what had happened I dont think this is a significant issue that has much bearing 
on my decision. The key issue is the effect  it had when it recorded  the debt on her credit file 
and taking out the CCJ. Santander has accepted it has made  errors.  
My role is not to punish the business,  but to decide the individual complaint and to establish  
the appropriate redress taking into account  the impact on Mrs W. She was in an IVA from 
2012 and this would remain on her credit  file for six years regardless of when it ended. This 
alone would  have significantly affected  her credit rating and I dont  consider  the Santander 
entry on the file to have made any noticeable  difference to her status.  
The CCJ would have  had an effect,  but in late 2018  Santander asked the court  to remove it 
and so the impact  would be limited. Once removed  it should have no bearing  on her credit  
rating. Therefore  I dont  think that Santander  has had much, if any, impact  on her credit 
status. Mrs W has not demonstrated that it did.
I can accept it has caused her distress while the matter was resolved and that wasnt  helped 
by Santanders  lack of detailed records. I have  to bear in mind some  of this is over six years 
old and the bank isnt obliged to keep records indefinitely. After due consideration I have 
concluded that £300 compensation is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs W 
compensation of £300. It should also assist  her in ensuring her credit file is updated  if 
necessary. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7083316