K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold  an 
Advantage Gold packaged  bank  account  to her in 2003.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Miss Fs complaint and didnt think that NatWest  had mis-sold  the 
packaged account. Miss F disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to look her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide what to do about Miss Fs complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that NatWest mis-sold  the 
packaged account to Miss F. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss F was given a clear  choice in taking the 
Advantage Gold account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is more  likely  than not to have happened.  And to do this 
I have to think about everything Ive been told together with else everything Ive been  
provided with and see how this fits with what I do know. In other words, what l have to do, in 
this case, is decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened having weighed  up 
what Miss F and NatWest have been  able to provide me with.
From what  Ive seen Miss F upgraded to the fee paying Advantage Gold  account from a free 
one which  shed had for a significant period of time. So I think that Miss F wouldve been 
aware NatWest did free accounts. Miss F might have only taken the Advantage Gold 
account because  it was offered to her. But that doesnt mean  that she had to have it. Overall 
and taking everything Ive seen  together,  I think its more  likely than not that NatWest gave 
Miss F a clear  choice  and she chose to upgrade because she, at the time at least, was 
interested in the benefits included on the Advantage Gold account.
From what  Ive seen and what Miss F has said, I dont think  NatWest recommended  the 
account. So it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. It was up to Miss F to decide this 
taking into account  what the package included.  But NatWest did have to give her clear  
enough information to do this. 
I think its likely NatWests representative did talk about the benefits and provided an 
overview of what the account included. After all they were  looking to make it appear  as 
attractive as possible so Miss F would agree to pay the monthly  fee when she most likely 
knew she didnt have  to. 
When Miss F upgraded,  the account included a preferential interest rate on loans. Ive seen 
what Miss F has said about being  sold this account on the telephone. But her account switch  
took place on the day that she successfully applied for loan. Having the Advantage Gold  
account meant that Miss Fs monthly loan repayments were  lower than they otherwise  
wouldve been if shed  remained  on her free account. So Miss F paid less because  of the 
preferential rates of the Advantage Gold account.
Ref: DRN72954772Ive seen what Miss F has said about  not needing all of the benefits.  But most of the benefits 
shes referred to  such as mobile  phone insurance - werent included at the time. They were 
added later. And equally Ive not seen  anything to indicate that Miss F couldnt have afforded  
the monthly fee at the time the account  was sold either.
Overall I think  Miss F was able to use the benefit  she most likely agreed  to upgrade for  the 
preferential loan rate. So while Im open to the possibility Miss F may not have  been  told 
everything she needed to know, I think she was told enough for her to be able to decide if 
the account was right for her. And as I havent  seen anything in Miss Fs circumstances to 
suggest she wouldve  been significantly affected  by the main  limitations and exclusions on 
the benefits, I dont  think  clearer information wouldve stopped her from taking it either.
Miss F may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think she shouldnt  have upgraded. And given 
what she mightve read or heard about packaged accounts in general,  I can understand why 
she might  believe that her account was also mis-sold. But I think  Miss F chose to upgrade 
after having  been provided  with an explanation  on what the account included.  So I want to 
reassure Miss F that having looked at all the information provided  and thought about 
everything shes said, I dont think NatWest mis-sold the Advantage Gold  account  to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7295477