K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the poor service he received from Virgin Money  plc when he queried a 
credit card application made in his name. 
background
On 12 December 2018 Virgin opened  a credit card account for Mr D following an online 
application apparently made by him a few days earlier. Virgin emailed Mr D confirming that it 
was sending him the credit card. Mr D replied saying that he didnt remember  applying for a 
card and asked for an explanation of what was happening.  He also said that he would be 
unable to communicate with the bank by phone and so it should contact him by other  means. 
Mr D then went on holiday abroad until mid-January  2019, but says he continued to contact 
Virgin frequently via social  media  and by email  in response to emails  about  his new card.  He 
was very concerned  about Virgins poor response and lack of urgency in dealing with the 
matter as he believed  that someone  might fraudulently have  applied  for the card in his name. 
On 25 December Virgin registered Mr Ds complaint  having received a communication  from 
him saying  that the card hadnt arrived and he remained very worried  about what was 
happening.
In the banks response of 14 January 2019  it said Mr Ds details  appeared to match  those 
included in the online application.  But because of his concerns about possible fraud, Virgin 
said it could either put a block  on the account and refer it for investigation  by its specialist 
team; or close the account. It confirmed that the card hadnt yet been used. Virgin  also 
offered Mr D £50 and provided  him with the email address  of a dedicated complaint handler.
Mr D replied re-iterating his concerns about  the length of time it had taken Virgin  to produce  
its substantive  reply.  He said he wanted  the application to be reviewed for fraud and that 
once that had happened he would  most  likely keep the card.
Having investigated  Mr Ds application for possible fraud, and found none, Virgin sent him its 
final response on 29 January. It confirmed  the outcome of its investigation and offered to lift 
the block on his account subject to his confirmation.  The bank also apologised for attempting  
to contact him by phone when he had already told it that he wasnt able to communicate that 
way. 
Mr D then complained  to us.
Initially, our investigators view was that because of a discrepancy  between Mr Ds email 
address and the one used on the credit card application, it was likely that he hadnt made the 
application. But having received further  information  from Virgin  that Mr D had two email 
addresses, with the one used for his application  being his social media address, she 
changed her view and considered it more  than likely that he had made the application.
She found that Virgin could have dealt with Mr Ds subsequent queries about the card more  
promptly than it had done. But her view was that the £50 already offered by the bank  was 
fair and reasonable compensation for its service shortcomings.
Mr D disagreed. In summary he said that his main concern was not so much that Virgin  had 
sent him a credit  card he hadnt  requested,  but the terrible service  it had subsequently 
Ref: DRN74947572provided when  he had queried the application.  He said this had caused  him great stress 
whilst he had been abroad on holiday.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having received an online application  for a credit  card apparently  made by Mr D, Virgin  
carried out all of its usual  identity checks and credit searches.  It found  nothing of concern 
and so approved  the card.  This automatically  set in motion a series  of system generated 
emails and letters to Mr D about the card.
In his first communication with Virgin Mr D said Im not saying I did not request a card, but I 
certainly do not remember. And in a subsequent communication  Mr D said I want the card 
to be reviewed for fraud  and possibly once this has been resolved  to my satisfaction I will 
most likely accept the card. Given Mr Ds statements, and the fact that all details included  
on his application  matched his actual details, and that Virgins  specialist fraud team  didnt 
find any evidence of fraud, I am satisfied that Mr D (or someone on his behalf) more than 
likely made the application.
But I understand why Mr D must have been very concerned about possible fraud when he 
received subsequent confirmation of the success of his credit card application  given that he 
couldnt recall having  made such an application.  And I recognise that being abroad  for a few 
weeks is likely to have added to his worry and distress about  what  might be happening if 
there had been  a fraudulent application.  In my view Virgin  should  therefore have replied to 
Mr Ds initial  communication about possible fraud much more speedily than it did. But that 
apart I consider that Virgin dealt with Mr Ds formal complaint  reasonably and within  the 
industry standard timescale.
At Mr Ds request Virgin  has now closed his account and has said its compensation offer of 
£50 still stands. My view is that this sum fairly and reasonably compensates  Mr D for Virgins 
failure to respond  more  rapidly than it did to his initial concerns about possible fraud. I now 
leave it to Mr D to contact Virgin if he wishes to accept its offer.
Mr D has also said that he wants Virgin to remove its credit  search  - undertaken as part of 
the credit  card approval process  - from his credit record. But as I consider it more  likely than 
not that Mr D (or someone  on his behalf)  made the application,  Virgin  was entitled  to conduct 
the search. And so as Virgin hasnt made an error, I cannot ask it to remove  the search from 
Mr Ds file. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7494757