K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which  
commenced in 2003. Mr W says The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS), Mint at the time, 
mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr W says the PPI was added without his knowledge  or consent, and that if hed been  
offered it, he wouldve said no. But based  on the evidence Ive seen I think  RBS made it 
clear that Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand if he cant remember this now. I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr W credit  
card application  form,  which includes a section for PPI. In this Mr W ticked the box to agree 
to the cover  - but he couldve left this box blank  if he didnt want PPI. So I think  Mr W 
wouldve been aware of the PPI at the time of selecting it on his application form. Mr W then 
signed the application form  so I think this reflected what  he wanted  at the time. And as he 
did that in the comfort  of his own home with, it seems, little involvement from RBS other  than 
the provision of the agreement itself, he had the time and space to make that decision freely. 
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if the policy  
was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr W says he couldve  kept up his repayments without the PPI, so the cover was of no use 
to him. But he also said he wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer at the time and 
he only had savings which wouldve lasted him a few months. Upon a successful claim the 
PPI wouldve  paid 10% of Mr Ws outstanding  monthly  balance  for up to 12 months, on top 
of any savings he may have had. This means that he wouldve been  able to use these funds 
for other expenses if he was unable to work, and so I still think the policy  couldve been 
useful had he needed to make a claim.  
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN76286902To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back  to Mr W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
sent Mr W a cheque for this amount, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7628690