K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs M bought the policy in April 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card.  Mrs M 
took out the card and PPI in a retail store, but FICL  is responsible for the way the policy  was 
sold. So in my decision Ill refer to FICL as the seller.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
I think FICL  made  Mrs M aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. In Mrs Ms complaint she said the PPI policy wasnt discussed with her at 
the time she took the store card. So she says she wasnt aware of the policy, and it was 
added without her consent.
Ive seen a  copy  of Mrs Ms store card application  form. It includes a section to choose  PPI. 
This is a separate section which requires a separate signature,  in addition to the signature  
that Mrs M needed to provide to take the card itself. Mrs M has signed the PPI section, so I 
think its reasonable to say shed have read and understood  what  she was signing for. I do 
understand she might not have had an extensive conversation about the PPI policy in store,  
but I think she was at least aware  of it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it had to give MRs M enough information  about  it.
Mrs M says she was entitled to sick pay form her employer if she was too unwell to work. 
She also says she didnt have any savings or other means to keep up her repayments if she 
couldnt work, for example  if shed lost her job.
The PPI policy wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Ms outstanding card balance  in the event of a 
successful claim. The claim  wouldve been paid until she was well enough to return to work,  
or until she started working  again if shed lost her job. So bearing in mind the means Mrs M 
had in place to make her repayments in the event of being unable to work, I think  the policy 
couldve been useful  to her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Mrs M doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover  such as a pre-existing medical  condition or unusual  working  arrangements.  
Ref: DRN76580772And based on what I know about her circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Its possible that FICL couldve made the cost of the policy  clearer  to Mrs M. But for the 
reasons Ive already explained,  if FICL had done  that, I dont think shed have changed  her 
mind and decided  not to take it.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs M has said. But for the reasons Ive explained,  I 
dont think FICL mis-sold  this PPI policy to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7658077