K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains Nationwide Building Society  sold him travel  insurance as part of a bank 
account, without  explaining he would need  to buy additional cover  due to his age.
background
Mr W opened a FlexPlus package bank  account  with Nationwide  in one of their branches.
The account  included  travel insurance.
Shortly after opening the account, Mr W went on holiday. He had an accident while he was 
abroad and needed medical  attention. His son contacted  Nationwide  to open a claim on the 
travel insurance. He was told that Mr W was not covered by the policy as he was over the 
age of 75 and hadnt bought an age extension. They said Mr W should have contacted their 
head office to complete the insurance  application when he opened  the account.
Mr W said this exclusion had not been explained to him when he opened the account,  so he 
had thought he would be automatically  covered.  He complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide said it provides sufficient information in branch about exclusions. It also said it 
had spoken to Mr W about this on the phone and he had said he may have  forgotten  the 
information given  to him in the branch. It said Mr W accepted the complaint could be closed.
Mr W disputed  Nationwides response  and complained to us. He said he had changed from 
a different bank to Nationwide specifically to get the benefit of their travel insurance that 
covers those over 75. He also said that he had discussed his upcoming  holiday and his age 
with the staff member  in the branch, and they hadnt told him he would need to buy an 
extension to be covered.  He made  a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and upheld Mr Ws complaint. He said he was 
persuaded that Mr W took out the account  for the insurance cover.  He also said as 
Nationwide werent  able to provide recordings of the calls they relied  on in their final 
response, it wasnt enough to defend the complaint.
Nationwide didnt agree  with our investigator. It explained that its part of its standard  
process for setting up a FlexPlus account  to clearly  outline all the exclusions.  This includes 
pointing out the phone  number Mr W would have  needed to call to add on the age extension 
to the insurance.  It also provided an agreement Mr W had signed to say he understood the 
exclusions of the policy. Nationwide asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Nationwide said it would  have told Mr W that he needed  to call a number to buy an age 
extension when he opened the account  in branch. However, Mr W says he wasnt told he 
needed to do this. As Mr W and Nationwide disagree about what happened, I need  to 
consider what is most likely to have  happened. I will then be able to decide if Nationwide 
have done anything wrong  and if they should do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN70796302Mr W says he opened  the account because he wanted to get the benefit of the travel  
insurance that covers  those over 75. As he was due to go on holiday shortly after this, I am 
satisfied that this is why he opened  the account.  I therefore think the travel insurance,  and 
his forthcoming  holiday, would have  been in the forefront of Mr Ws mind when opening the 
account. The fact he went into a branch and opened a new account, shows  he considered it 
a priority to make sure he had insurance ahead of his holiday.  Nationwide  said it told Mr W 
that in order to have insurance cover he would need to call up and buy an age extension. If 
this had been explained, Mr W would have realised  this meant  that if he didnt  call he would 
have no travel insurance cover at all. As Mr W says the insurance was the main reason he 
switched to the account, and he had made sure he got to a branch before his holiday, it 
seems likely that he would have made sure he called. I therefore dont think  he would have 
forgotten. So I think it is more likely that the age exclusion  wasnt  made clear to Mr W when  
he visited the branch  to open the account.
Nationwide said in its final response that a staff member had spoken to Mr W and he had 
said he may have forgotten about the information given to him and he considered  the 
complaint closed. Ive not been  able to listen to this conversation, as Nationwide  dont record  
calls made  from their branches.  However,  it seems  an odd thing for Mr W to have said, 
considering he later brought his complaint to this service. Based  on the fact Mr W was 
unhappy with Nationwides  response and continued  to pursue the complaint, I dont think he 
considered the matter  closed. I therefore think its likely that the staff member  misinterpreted 
the conversation  with Mr W. So I dont think this conversation can be relied on when 
considering the complaint.
Nationwide have said it is part of its standard procedure  to make sure all insurance 
exclusions are made  clear to customers when  opening a FlexPlus account. It has also 
provided me with the scripts its staff use when opening all new accounts. I can see the 
information in these scripts includes  a clear explanation of the exclusions and directs staff to 
show customers key parts of the policy. Although I appreciate Nationwide  have explained 
the process is mandatory; the information  provided is generic information. So it doesnt 
mean that the staff member in this case followed the guidance exactly  with Mr W. I have 
already outlined why I think  it is likely that the exclusions werent explained clearly. I dont 
think this is enough  to convince  me otherwise. Particularly as the evidence  provided isnt 
specific to Mr Ws experience.
Nationwide have also provided a copy of the terms and conditions that were signed  by Mr W.
I can see it says in the document that by signing he agrees he understands the exclusions of 
the travel  insurance  policy. However,  this is dependent on the exclusions being clearly 
explained to Mr W before he signed  the document. He may have thought he understood the 
exclusions, even  if he didnt. It is also important to mention  that the FlexPlus account  comes 
with a number  of features. This includes  breakdown assistance, phone  insurance and 
warranty extension.  Each  one of these features would have its own terms and conditions,  so 
there would be a lot of information and paperwork for Mr W to take in. Mr W has said he 
explained he was opening the account  in order to get the travel  insurance. It would have 
therefore been important for the staff member to highlight what he needed to do to make 
sure he was insured.  However based  on the fact Mr W didnt buy the age extension, I think 
its likely  that this information wasnt clearly highlighted  amongst all the details provided.
For the reasons  I have  outlined, I do think Nationwide have  got something wrong by not 
explaining the exclusions clearly. Based on this I think if Mr W had understood the 
exclusions, he would have bought the age extension.  I am therefore minded to uphold  the 
Ref: DRN70796303complaint. I propose  that Nationwide step into the shoes of the insurer and asses the claim 
in the same manner  as if the age extension  had been purchased.  If there is a valid claim
Nationwide should  indemnify him, with a deduction  for the price  of the age extension that 
would have been purchased.
Further to this, I have  considered the impact the situation has had on Mr W. He has had to 
pay a large amount of money  on hospital  fees in the knowledge that he may not be able to 
recover this money. Being  taken ill while abroad  is already  a distressing situation, particularly 
for someone  in their 70s. So finding  out he didnt have travel insurance on top of this would 
have been particularly distressing. It has also taken over a year for the matter to be resolved.
For these reasons I propose Nationwide pay Mr W £500 compensation for the distress  
caused.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr W didnt respond  to my provisional decision.
Nationwide responded to say it didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld.  It says it 
thinks Mr W would have been told about  the requirement to call up to buy the age extension 
as it is part of a strict process its advisors follow. It also said it couldnt  be sure that the claim 
would have been eligible  under the policy even if he had bought  the extension. Finally, it said 
that if Mr W had opened  the bank account  solely for the insurance, it would have expected 
him to be very careful to check he was covered.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the points that Nationwide raised following my provisional decision. It says 
that it has a strict process  its advisors follow that includes a discussion  of all the exclusions 
in the policy. Nationwide  had already provided  me with a copy  of this policy, including the 
scripts its advisors use, before I made  my provisional decision.  I have re-considered the 
point, but I still dont think it is enough to persuade  me that this script was followed exactly  in 
Mr Ws case. 
Nationwide have also said that if Mr W did open the account solely for the travel insurance, it 
would have expected him to check what was needed carefully. I considered  this point and I 
think this supports the reason I dont  think Mr W could have been told about the need to call 
to add the age extension. As I said in my provisional  decision, I am persuaded that Mr W did 
open the account in order to get the benefit of the travel insurance. I therefore think if he had 
realised that he would have no travel  insurance at all if he didnt buy the extension, he would 
have made  sure he had done it. I therefore dont  think this was made clear to him when  he 
opened the account. 
Finally Nationwide  also raised concerns about  whether  the claim would have been eligible if 
Mr W had bought the extension. In my provisional  decision I said I intended to ask 
Nationwide to assess the claim in the same manner as if the age extension  had been 
purchased. This means if the claim isnt eligible under a term of the policy, Nationwide will 
have the opportunity to make that assessment. 
Ref: DRN70796304I have considered the additional points raised  by Nationwide, but for the reasons I have 
outlined, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. Therefore I require 
Nationwide to step into the shoes  of the insurer and asses the claim in the same manner as 
if the age extension had been purchased.  If there  is a valid claim Nationwide should deal 
with it Mr W, with a deduction for the price of the age extension  that would have been  
purchased. Further  to this I require Nationwide  pay Mr W £500 compensation for the distress 
caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to uphold the complaint. I require Nationwide
Building Society to:
step into the shoes of the insurer and assess the claim in the same manner as if the age 
extension had been purchased.  If there  is a valid claim, they should indemnify Mr W, 
deducting the cost of the age extension.
pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the loss until the date settlement is 
paid, on any valid claim. *
pay Mr W £500 compensation for the distress caused. This should be paid within  
28 days of us telling them that Mr W has accepted  my final decision. If Nationwide  
Building Society pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
*If Nationwide  Building Society considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr W a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7079630