K821x#15complaint
S is a limited  company. It complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold it an interest rate swap 
agreement and hasnt  paid enough compensation.
background
Until 2006, S had lending from another bank  to finance the purchase of commercial  
properties. In 2006  S moved to Lloyds and refinanced its borrowing. It did this together  with 
another company which had the same owners,  so they took out a joint loan. Alongside this, 
S entered  into a seven-year interest  rate swap agreement, which effectively fixed  the interest 
rate costs  on the companys borrowing.
The lending was renewed in 2009 with an increased  margin. The swap  remained in place.
Later Lloyds  reviewed the sale of the swap under its agreement  with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and concluded the sale hadnt  met the required standards. In 2014  the bank 
offered to put S in the position  it would have been in if it had taken a swap that ran for two 
years rather  than seven. 
S accepted  the banks offer  subject  to making  a further claim for consequential losses  
and in March 2014 received redress of around £124,000 including  interest.
S then made its claim for consequential losses. Lloyds  didnt uphold the claim and made  no 
further offer. Unhappy  with the banks  response, S referred its complaint to us.
The company is claiming  for consequential losses which it says were  caused by having  to 
make the swap payments.  In particular it says having the original swap caused the following:
The sale of a property  in May 2012  (completed at the end of June 2012), which 
resulted in lost rental income and lost increase in property value.
Lost management time, loss of business  reputation, defamation and aggravated 
damages, and future tax implications.
Individual losses suffered by the directors and company secretary.
my provisional decision
I issued provisional  conclusions on this complaint and invited both parties to comment. In 
summary, it was my view that the swap payments caused S to sell the property sooner than 
it would  have done otherwise, and that Lloyds should therefore compensate S for lost rental 
income. I wasnt minded  to order the bank to compensate S for any other  consequential  
losses. I explain my reasons below.
Both parties  disagreed with my provisional  conclusions and made  a number of points which  I 
consider below as part of my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73795762Theres been extensive correspondence  on this case. Id like to assure S and the bank that 
Ive looked at all the arguments and evidence with care.  In this decision Ill concentrate on 
the key arguments and evidence that are material  to my determination of the complaint.
Because the issue of the mis-sale  has already been  resolved between the two parties, the 
starting point of my decision is that S should  have had a swap  that ran for two years rather  
than seven. I wont be re-opening that issue.
consequential losses
I need  to look at whether the banks  failures actually caused the consequential losses.  And if 
they did, I also need to ask whether its fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses. To do 
this, Id need  to ask whether the bank  could reasonably foresee that its failures  would result  
in losses like these. In other words, Id need  to be satisfied the losses werent too remote  
from the banks  failings.
losses from the sale of the property in May 2012
In my view, its unlikely S would have sold the property  in May 2012 if it hadnt  had the 
original swap. I find the evidence persuasive  that the urgent problem at the time was to deal 
with Ss overdraft, which wouldnt have existed if S hadnt had to make  the swap  payments. 
Lloyds has pointed out that S had already indicated in April 2012  that it was going to 
liquidate its portfolio. But that expression of intent  was made  while S was still having  to make 
the swap payments,  which were  set to run until June  2013. In thinking  about its plans, S 
would have taken  these payments into account.  S had a reduced cash  flow, compared with 
the situation the company  would  have been in with the shorter  swap,  which would have 
ended in 2008. I cant assume S would have  taken the same view about  its property  if the 
swap hadnt reduced its cash flow.
All things  considered, I think the burden of the swap  payments did lead S to the decision to 
sell the property in the summer of 2012.  And Im satisfied that it was reasonably foreseeable 
that swap payments  could  cause such a problem.
But in assessing the scale of Ss losses caused by the bank, I also need  to take into account 
that the loan was scheduled to end in November 2012. At that time S would  have had to sell 
the property anyway, to repay the loan  unless S could  have  obtained a new loan. S has 
argued that it would  have  kept the property, because  it could have refinanced either with 
Lloyds (as S could  have complied with the requirements Lloyds set out for a new loan 
agreement) or with another lender.  Lloyds  has argued that S wouldnt have been able to 
meet the banks  interest cover  requirements  for a new loan.
Ive looked carefully  at the evidence and arguments about whether S could  have met Lloyds 
lending requirements,  had the swap already ended. 
According to the bank,  the maximum renewed borrowing (without the swap) which would  
have complied with its cover covenant would have been £869,000 interest-only  or £812,319 
amortised  both of which are very much less than the joint borrowing that S and the other 
company had earlier in 2012.
Ref: DRN73795763S says that in March 2012,  the interest  rate cover  (excluding the swap payments) was 175%. 
This calculation is based  on an interest-only loan. S also says the banks quoted  probable 
renewal interest cover  covenant for an interest-only  loan was 275%. S says the bank quoted 
a cover covenant  of 135% for an amortised loan.  I dont think S could have met the 
requirement. I havent seen all the figures on this, but I estimate  the actual cover would have 
been less than 100%. In my view this shows S would have fallen short  of the requirements  
for renewal with Lloyds,  either for an amortised loan or interest-only loan. 
 
In response to my provisional decision,  S has argued that if the property hadnt been sold in 
May 2012, its interest cover in January 2013 would have been 215%, which would exceed 
the 135%  cover that Lloyds  required for an amortised loan. 
Ive looked carefully  at Ss calculations and I still think  the bank is correct  that S would have  
fallen short of the cover  requirements. Thats because Lloyds cover requirement  for an 
amortised loan considered repayments,  including capital repayments, rather than the interest 
payments alone.  This is reflected in the words used by Lloyds - its submissions refer to 
repayment cover for an amortised loan and interest  cover for an interest-only loan. Ss own 
cover calculations havent included capital repayments. Im satisfied that if capital 
repayments were included, then the repayment cover in March 2012 or January  2013 
wouldnt have reached the 135% required for an amortised  loan.
S also argues  that, with the shorter swap, it would have been  able to invest  more,  and 
therefore a return  of 8% on the cumulative swap payments should be added to its income in 
the cover  calculations. Im not convinced that the hypothetical return would have been 
achieved in practice or that it would have  been  put to a use that could be included in the 
cover calculations. But even if that return were included as suggested  by S, then the 
repayment cover would still have fallen short of the banks requirements.
It therefore remains my view that S wouldnt have been able to meet the interest/repayment 
cover requirement for either an interest-only loan or an amortised loan to refinance the same 
level of borrowing with Lloyds in November 2012, even with the shorter swap.
There were two emails from the bank  to S, one in February 2012 and the other  in 
October 2012, which seemed to indicate the swap was preventing  S from being able to meet 
the required covenants for renewal of the lending. Lloyds said its email  of February 2012 
shouldnt be taken as an indication that, without  the swap, the banks lending conditions 
could be met. Lloyds said the email was clumsily worded but needs  to be read in the context 
of Ss previous question about  how the lending requirements might  impact the swap.  The 
bank also said its email  of October  2012  was written after the sale of the property and isnt a 
sound basis for implying S could have  complied with the lending requirements prior to the 
sale. 
Ive looked at the two bank emails, but they dont  change my view. The second email starts  
from an analysis of Ss position after the sale, and therefore cant be treated as showing how 
things stood before the sale. In my view,  it doesnt help us determine whether  or not Lloyds 
would have been likely to agree a new loan with S still in possession  of the property but 
without the swap.
In the first email (February 2012), I think the bank representative did give S and the other  
company some encouragement  that getting  rid of the swaps  could  put the customers  in a 
position to satisfy the covenants. Im not persuaded by the banks different interpretation of 
the email, even allowing for clumsiness in its wording.  
Ref: DRN73795764But whatever the first email said, I dont think it changes the facts of the situation regarding  
the covenants as Ive described  them above. Ive already decided that those facts would 
have meant  that S wouldnt have been  able to refinance with Lloyds.  In the email, the bank  
representative was looking for ways in which the companies problems could  be resolved 
and I dont regard  it as a complete analysis of the situation. And his suggestions at that time 
cant override what we know about the banks  interest cover  requirements, as described  
above. 
Another bank  seemed  interested  in providing  finance for S. But Ive seen no evidence  that S 
would have been offered  significantly easier terms than those offered by Lloyds, so I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to conclude  that S would have been  able to refinance with 
another lender and thereby keep the property. 
In response to my provisional decision,  S has said that without the short-term pressures 
caused by the swap  payments, discussions with other lenders could have progressed 
further, and the other bank has confirmed its continuing interest since 2012.  But this still isnt 
evidence that borrowing  terms were available to S in 2012 that would have enabled  it to 
refinance and keep the property, so I havent changed my mind on this point.
S has also argued that its wrong to speculate about the expiry of the loan facility without 
taking into account  the effect of the swap payments.  S says that without the swap  payments 
theres no reason  to believe  there  would have  been  a breakdown  in the relationship  with 
Lloyds or any question of not renewing.  Ive already  agreed with S that the without the swap 
payments the company wouldnt have had to sell the property early, but Ive seen no 
evidence that, without the cash  flow difficulties caused by the swap  payments,  the bank 
would have offered  significantly easier  terms for renewing the lending in November  2012.  
S has also argued that theres no need  to speculate about whether the lending  would have 
been renewed, because the original facility remains in place to this day and payments have 
been met on time since the basic redress was paid after the review. 
I note the bank hasnt demanded repayment  of the loan,  but there are a number of possible 
reasons for this and I dont think it tells us anything about what  would have happened in 
2012 if the original  swap  hadnt  been in place  and S still owned  the properties.  And I cant 
ignore the fact that Ss complaint about  the swap began in 2013  and has still to be fully 
resolved. In the circumstances, I dont regard the banks actions since  the expiry date as a 
renewal of the facilities, or as an indication that it would  have  renewed  the facilities in the 
absence of the original swap. 
For all the above  reasons,  I think S would have  been unable to refinance its borrowing at the 
same level when its loan expired  in November 2012.  So it would have had to sell the 
property at that time, even without the original swap. 
Ive already concluded that S had to sell the property in May 2012 (completed at the end of 
June 2012) because of the effects of the original  swap. I also conclude  that S would have 
had to sell the property in November 2012  anyway, even without the swap.  This means  the 
original swap caused S to sell the property four and a half months earlier than it would have 
done otherwise.  Compensation  should  therefore be based on the losses  S suffered as a 
result of selling  the property early. Those  would be the lost rental  income and any lost capital 
growth on the property,  from the end of June  2012 up to the date of the loan expiry  in 
November 2012.
Ref: DRN73795765Its difficult to tell with any certainty what price  would have  been  achieved in November  2012.  
But I note that average  retail commercial property prices saw no growth during the summer 
and autumn of 2012, so its likely the early  sale caused no capital loss. So I dont require 
Lloyds to pay any compensation  for capital loss.
Our adjudicator estimated  that the lost rent should  be compensated at the rate of £19,500 
per annum,  based  on evidence from an estate agent listing of the property. I agree thats a 
fair and reasonable figure.
taking account  of the compensatory  interest  already paid
In response to my provisional decision,  Lloyds  pointed  out that S had already received 8% 
compensatory interest  on the refunded swap payments. As part of the FCA review  process,  
the 8% compensatory interest was to reflect loss of profit or interest  in other words, the 
opportunity cost of having been deprived of the money refunded  in the review. Lloyds said 
the sum already paid in compensatory  interest  was greater than the sum of lost rent 
described in my provisional  decision, so no further  payment should be due.
I considered this argument carefully. I agreed that my decision should take some account of 
the compensatory interest  already paid, in order to avoid double-recovery. But I didnt agree 
that it was simply a matter  of comparing the redress proposed in the provisional decision 
with the total compensatory  interest already paid. I concluded that the redress for the lost 
rent should  be reduced by a sum equivalent  to the compensatory interest  already  paid for 
the period during which the rent was lost. I asked the parties for comments  on this proposal.
Lloyds didnt agree, saying  my proposal introduced a level of complexity  which the 8% 
compensatory interest  was specifically designed to avoid. 
The banks view was that complainants  pursuing  a consequential loss claim with the 
ombudsman service were trying to show their losses exceeded the 8% compensatory  
interest already  paid to them. When successful, they should receive the difference between 
what had already been paid and the value  of their successful claim. When  they successfully 
identified losses that turned  out to be less than the compensatory interest  already  paid,  no 
further payment  should be made.  Lloyds  also said the 8% compensatory  interest  already 
paid bore no relation  to the components of the consequential loss claim  so calculating  a 
deduction (as I had suggested) would not only be double-recovery, but would also be 
contrary to the spirit and normal application of the 8% approach. 
I understand Lloyds  arguments but I dont  agree  with them. In my view, there are cases  in 
which, depending  on the facts, its fair and reasonable  to award redress for specific 
consequential losses in addition to a generic 8% for being deprived of the use of the money 
returned in the basic redress. In particular,  this may be a consideration if a customer  
provides evidence of a specific loss from a single event during the lifetime of the product, 
even if that loss is less than the 8% compensatory  interest already  paid. In my view, this 
applies in the circumstances of the current complaint.
Double-recovery should  be avoided  but that doesnt mean its fair and reasonable for all of 
the 8% interest  paid to be subtracted from the evidenced consequential  losses  in every 
case. It depends on the circumstances.  In Ss case, I think the sum to be subtracted from the 
award shouldnt  be all of the compensatory interest already paid on the basic  redress.  Thats 
because the rent losses occurred towards the end of the period covered by the basic 
Ref: DRN73795766redress, so there was an earlier period when the customer was deprived of the use of money 
 and I see no reason  to regard the compensation paid for that earlier period as double-
recovery for the lost rent. 
I accept that in the FCA review, the offer of 8% interest as a proxy  for consequential losses 
was intended  to simplify the process. But Im not trying to re-run the FCA review process or 
to interfere with its calculations. Im making  what I regard to be a fair and reasonable 
adjustment to my own determination of the consequential loss complaint, in order to avoid 
double-recovery for a specific component of the customers losses.
S also disagreed  with the proposed formulation  for redress. It said Lloyds should  pay redress 
for lost rental income from July 2012  up to the date of settlement  of the current  complaint, 
minus the loan interest S saved after the reduction of its debt as a result  of the property sale. 
Ive looked carefully  at Ss arguments, which are mostly based on its view that the property  
wouldnt have been sold in November 2012  in the absence of the swap. For reasons Ive 
given above, Ive concluded  that the property  would have been  sold in November 2012, so I 
dont agree that the bank  should pay S for the lost rent beyond  that date. 
S also says the lost rent wasnt replaced  by the basic redress  and the compensatory  interest  
already paid by the bank. I agree that the basic redress  didnt  replace  the lost rent, which is 
why the core of my decision is that the bank should  make an additional payment to S (for the 
period up to November  2012). But its still my view that part of the compensatory interest 
already paid was intended  to cover losses such as this. So I havent changed my mind on 
the need to make a reduction  to avoid double-recovery.
For the above reasons, I remain of the view that a fair and reasonable approach to avoiding 
double-recovery would be to subtract  a sum corresponding to the notional component of the 
8% compensatory interest already paid for the company  being  deprived of funds during the 
period of the lost rent. 
other losses claimed
Regarding the other losses claimed,  I havent  seen persuasive evidence that the swap  
caused S identifiable financial  losses related to management time, business reputation, 
defamation or aggravated damages. And S hasnt identified what future tax implications 
there might be for the company. 
We dont usually make awards for the time involved in presenting complaints. Nor would we 
make awards for individual  losses claimed by the directors  and company secretary, as the 
complainant in this case is the limited company.
For these reasons, I dont  require the bank to pay any compensation for these other  losses 
claimed. 
S says that in June 2012 Lloyds knew the FCA had announced the review of mis-selling  of 
interest rate hedging products, but the bank made no allowance  for this in its dealings with S 
until 2014. But I note S has already accepted redress for the swap payments, and the 
subject of the current complaint is the further loss that S suffered as a consequence of 
making those payments.  My aim here is to put S back into the position  it would have  been  in 
if it had taken the shorter swap. And both the review  redress and the award in my decision 
are subject to compensatory interest  to account  for the time elapsed  before payment. Im 
Ref: DRN73795767therefore satisfied  that any losses suffered by S as a result  of the banks timing in its 
dealings with S are covered by the review settlement and by my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank  Plc to pay S the 
following:
A.A sum equivalent  to the loss of rental income  from the property, for the period 
1 July 2012 to 17 November 2012, at a rate of £19,500 per year,  minus  the 
compensatory interest  already paid for that specific period  (paid  on the total basic 
redress due up to that time). 
B.Interest at 8% simple per annum should  be added  to the loss of rental income from 
the date the losses were incurred to the date the bank paid the basic redress  in 2014. 
C.Interest at 8% simple per annum should  be added  to A from the date the bank paid 
the basic redress in 2014 to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7379576