K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, trading  as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave her 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss C was given four payday loans by UBF between  June  2014  and August 2014. All loans 
except Loan 4 have been repaid. A summary of Miss Cs borrowing from UBF is as follows 
(Ive used  the repayment dates shown in UBFs final response letter):
Loan Number
Borrowing Date
Repayment Date
Loan AmountRepayment amount
1 10/06/2014 28/06/2014 £ 200 £269.90
2 30/06/2014 29/07/2014 £ 300 £404.85
3 29/07/2014 29/08/2014 £ 300 £404.85
4 29/08/2014       - £ 375 £506.06
Miss C said she had loans from 21 different lenders  at this time. She said that UBF hadnt 
lent responsibly and their affordability checks would have  shown she owed so much.
UBF said in its final response  letter that it had carried out a credit  check  and asked Miss C 
for details  of her income and expenditure. The figures she gave it didnt highlight that Miss C 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. But UBF said that some of the loans  were  funded  
within quick succession of each other  and it ought  to have been aware that Miss C was 
becoming reliant on its loans. So UBF said that it wasnt reasonable to approve Loan 4 
without probing  Miss Cs finances further. So UBF offered to remove all the interest and 
charges on Loan  4. It noted that Miss C was repaying the balance  on Loan  4 under a debt 
management plan.  
UBF also told this service  that its credit check included reports  on new account  openings,  
registered defaults and County Court  Judgements, and significant changes  to existing 
accounts, such as overdue payments, deferrals, extensions and the like. It also assesses the 
income and overall  indebtedness of a customer, including  their unsecured  and secured debt, 
which allows  it to confirm  their ability to service existing debt, as well as the new loan 
application. It also checks short term lending information which includes loans which  have 
only just been  approved.   
The adjudicator said that UBFs checks went far enough for Loans 1 and 2. She noted that 
UBF had asked Miss C for information about  her income and regular outgoings. But the 
adjudicator said that the checks on Loans 3 and 4 didnt go far enough as the loans were 
requested immediately after Miss C had repaid her previous loan. The adjudicator  also said 
that if UBF had done better checks,  it would  have seen that Miss C had a large  amount  of 
debt outstanding on other short term loans  and that she wasnt in a position to repay  Loans  3 
and 4 without  putting herself into a very difficult financial  situation. The adjudicator  
recommended that LS should:
-Refund all interest  and charges that Miss C paid on Loans 3 and 4 from 29 July 2014
       and  29 August 2014;
Ref: DRN70303782-      Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
       of settlement*;
-      Remove any negative information about Loans  3 and 4 from Miss Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Miss C to take off tax from this interest. UBF must  give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
UBF responded to say that in its final response  letter, it had partially upheld Miss Cs 
complaint and had already offered to refund interest and charges on Loan 4. With regard to 
Loan 3, this was for the same amount as Loan  2 and was repaid without being rolled over.  
UBF also noted that Miss Cs complaint had said that she had multiple other  loans but it said 
that these werent  visible to it and Miss C hadnt disclosed these. UBF also said that Miss C 
had told it her income was £1,400 and her outgoings  were  £700. UBF had asked Miss C for 
her normal  living costs,  regular financial commitments, short term loans, travel,  food and 
other regular  amounts.  It said that Miss Cs regular expenditure could  have increased  by 
42% and she could still have met the repayments. UBF had also seen Miss Cs payslip and 
Miss C had told it that her details hadnt  changed on subsequent loans.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I note that UBF has offered to remove all interest and charges on Loan  4, I would 
normally expect a lender who has agreed to settle a loan to also pay 8% interest on any
refund of interest  and charges paid, and for the lender to remove any adverse entries on the 
consumers credit file regarding that loan.  I asked the adjudicator to contact UBF to ask for 
its comments on this. UBF responded to say that it didnt offer the 8% within its settlement as 
Miss C hadnt made any payments towards the interest and so it couldnt pay 8% of an 
amount that didnt  exist. 
As UBF has already agreed to settle Loan  4, I dont propose to investigate  the affordability  of 
Loan 4 below. 
UBF was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to make  sure Miss C could 
afford to repay each  of the loans before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss C was borrowing, the length of the 
agreements and her lending history. But there  was no set list of checks UBF had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator at the time Miss C borrowed from 
UBF. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers  
ability to meet repayments  under  a regulated  credit  agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences. The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make  repayments 
without undue difficulty, and that this means  borrowers should  be able to make  their 
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet 
these repayments.
So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low when 
compared to Miss Cs income, or that she was able to repay most of the loans in full, doesnt 
necessarily mean the loans were affordable and that she was able to repay most of them in 
a sustainable  manner. So, I cant assume that because Miss C was able to repay most of 
Ref: DRN70303783her loans in full that she was able to do so out of her normal  income  without having  to 
borrow further.
UBF told us that before  lending to Miss C, it had asked her about  her income and regular  
expenditure, and made credit checks.  UBF hadnt provided us with any information  about its 
credit checks. So I asked the adjudicator  to ask UBF for the results  of its credit checks. UBF 
said it no longer has these. UBF also said that Miss C declared an income of £1,400 and 
expenditure of £700. UBFs budget sheet shows that before Loan  1 Miss Cs outgoings were 
£300 for housing  and utilities,  £200  for food and £200 for travel.  
Loan 1
I note that Miss C needed to make a repayment  of £269.90. Ive considered the level of 
borrowing in comparison with the income  of £1,400  and expenditure of £700 Miss C 
declared to UBF. I think the repayment amount was a relatively high proportion of 
Miss Cs income. So, I would have expected UBF to have gathered  some  further  information  
here, such as Miss Cs regular expenditure. I can see that UBF did this and it amounted  to 
£700. Taking Miss Cs disposable income  of £700 into account  here,  it appears  that Miss C 
would have had sufficient disposable  income to sustainably repay Loan 1. And there was 
little to suggest to UBF at this stage that Miss C wasnt using the loan in the way it was 
intended  as a short term solution  to a temporary cash  flow problem. So I dont think  UBF 
was wrong to agree to this loan.  
Loan 2
Miss C borrowed  Loan  2 two days after shed repaid Loan 1. The amount she borrowed had 
increased to £300  with a substantially higher repayment amount of £404.85. UBF said that 
Miss C had declared that her disposable income  hadnt changed. I also note from UBFs 
contact notes that it had obtained a bank statement from Miss C at the time of Loan 2. I think 
that the information LS gathered before Loan 2 suggested that the loan repayment amount 
was affordable, and I think  it was reasonable for LS to rely on the information  it had gathered 
before this loan.  So, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint about  Loan 2.
Loan 3
Miss C obtained Loan 3 on the day she repaid Loan 2. I consider this to be a sign of 
potential financial difficulties. Loan  3 was again  for £300. Miss C declared that there had 
been no change  to her disposable income  of £700. But I think UBF ought to have been 
concerned as to why a person with an apparently relatively high level of disposable income 
was coming back to it for a third loan in seven weeks. I think that behaviour  might  have 
caused some concerns  to UBF. It might have  suggested to UBF that Miss C was using short 
term loans as a supplement to her normal income, rather than using  them to meet a 
temporary one-off  problem, and that her finances were likely to be under some  pressure. 
So, although  I think it was still reasonable for UBF to rely on the information Miss C had 
declared to it, I think UBF should  have  additionally asked her some  very specific questions  
about any other short term lending she already had outstanding. I cant see that UBF had 
gathered information  about short term lending. So I dont  think  UBF gathered sufficient  
information here about Miss C to assess if she could afford to repay the loan.
Although I dont think the checks UBF did for Loan 3 were sufficient, that in itself doesnt 
mean that Miss Cs complaint about  Loan 3 should  succeed. I also need  to see whether 
Ref: DRN70303784what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown UBF that Miss C couldnt  
sustainably afford the loan.
As Ive said above,  I would have expected UBF to ask about  Miss Cs short  term credit 
commitments whilst taking into account her declared  disposable income of £700. Ive 
reviewed Miss Cs credit report for the month before Loan 3 to see what  better checks would 
have shown UBF. I can see that Miss C had around  15 short term credit  accounts 
outstanding and most of them were in arrear  at the time of Loan 3. Some  were recently 
defaulted and some were  in a debt management  plan.  I note that Miss C was committed  to 
paying £196 per month on a longer term commitment and £131 per month on short  term 
commitments. But the balance  outstanding  on credit  taken out in the previous 18 months  
and in arrears appears to amount to over £6,000. 
So if UBF had done what I consider  to be proportionate checks before agreeing Loan  3, I 
think it would  have  seen  that it wouldnt have been sustainable for Miss C. So, as a 
responsible lender, I think it should  have declined Loan 3. So UBF needs to pay Miss C 
some compensation for Loan 3 as well as what it has already agreed to pay for Loan  4. And 
with regard to Loan 4, as the adjudicator has already informed  UBF, we would also expect it 
to pay statutory interest on its refund of any paid interest and charges and to remove  any 
adverse information  about the loan from Miss Cs credit file. In addition,  as Loan 4 hasnt  yet 
been repaid, I think the adjudicators recommended  award should be amended to take the 
unpaid loan balance  into account. 
To settle  Loans  3 and 4, I think  UBF should:-
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss C on Loan 3; 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Refund any interest and charges that Miss C has paid on Loan 4 and pay 8% simple  
interest* a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 4;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  4 and pay 
any balance to Miss C; and
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Cs credit  file in relation to Loans 3 
and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If UBF intends  to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  the 
tax.
I asked the adjudicator to ask UBF and Miss C if they had any comments on my proposed  
changes to the recommendations in the adjudicators view.  Theyve  not provided any specific 
comments in relation to those changes except as referred to above. Ive still included the 
reference to 8% interest in relation to interest and charges paid on Loan 4 in case  any such 
Ref: DRN70303785payments have been made in the meantime. I see no reason why my proposed award above 
shouldnt be reflected in my final decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, to:-
1.Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss C on Loan 3; 
2.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
3.Refund any interest and charges that Miss C has paid on Loan 4 and pay 8% simple  
interest* a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
4.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 4;
5.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  4 and 
pay any balance to Miss C; and
6.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Cs credit  file in relation to 
Loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If UBF intends  to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting  the 
tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7030378