K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that a car she acquired  on a hire purchase agreement  through  Retail 
Money Market Ltd T/A RateSetter isnt of satisfactory  quality.
Background
In October  2017 Miss R entered  into a hire purchase agreement for a used car with 
RateSetter. The car was around 7 years old, had travelled around 77,000 miles and the cash 
price of the car was £4,495. Miss R part exchanged her old car as part of the sale for £295. 
The remaining  £4,200  was financed by the hire purchase agreement over a period of 48 
months.
Between October and December 2017 Miss R says she took her car back  to the dealership  
several times due to recurring issues. She said the car was making rattling  noises from 
underneath the front of the car and grinding noises when the car started. The Sat Nav was 
not working and there were issues with the handbrake and lights.
Miss R says she wrote a letter to the dealership on 18 December 2017 as she wanted to 
reject the car. However, the dealership  instead  fixed her car on 20 December 2017 and 
offered a new MOT and £250  compensation.
Miss R then complained  to RateSetter asking to give the car back  and end the finance 
agreement.
RateSetter recognised  the car had some initial issues but it had now been fixed, and a new 
MOT had been completed on 21 December 2017 showing no advisories. It therefore felt the 
dealerships response  was fair, so rejected the complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She upheld the complaint and asked 
RateSetter to:
Treat Miss Rs agreement as if her request to reject the car had been accepted,
including cancelling  the finance at no further  costs to her.
Amend Miss Rs credit file to remove the finance  or show  it as settled so it doesnt 
have a negative  effect.
Refund Miss R the £295 deposit  she paid and pay 8% simple  interest from the date it 
was paid until it is repaid.
Honour the £250 compensation Miss R has been offered if it has not already been 
paid to her.
RateSetter partially agreed with the investigator. It agreed to the rejection of the car, amend 
the credit  file and honour the £250  compensation. However, RateSetter did not believe it 
was its responsibility to refund the deposit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement with RateSetter.  Theres  an 
implied term within the hire purchase  contract that means the car should be of satisfactory  
quality. When considering what is satisfactory its reasonable when considering cars to look 
Ref: DRN75027192at the things like the price  paid, age and mileage. In this instance it appears RateSetter has 
accepted the car was not of satisfactory  quality and it has now agreed to take back  the car 
and end the agreement.  
I dont therefore  consider  it necessary  to go into detail  about the quality  of the car at the time 
it was supplied. But for completeness, and for similar reasons the investigator has already 
explained, Im satisfied the car was not of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Miss R. 
And Miss R should have  been allowed to reject  the car. 
RateSetter has now agreed to cancel the agreement, take back the car, pay £250 for the 
trouble and upset  caused (if its not already  been paid by the dealership) and remove any 
negative information  from Miss Rs credit file. RateSetter has not however agreed to refund 
the £295 deposit that was paid through  Miss R part exchanging her previous vehicle. So, all 
that is left for me to consider is whether the deposit should be refunded.
RateSetter has explained it would not refund  the deposit. It says the deposit  was not 
included on the hire purchase agreement and therefore does not believe it is their 
responsibility to refund.  I disagree.
Our service aims to put consumers back into a position they would have been in had the 
issue not occurred.  Miss R has provided  our service with an email  from the dealership 
confirming she had paid £295 as a part exchange  for the car RateSetter provided finance 
for. The initial invoice  for the vehicle also confirms it was sold for £4,495, rather than the 
£4,200 on the hire purchase agreement. So I am satisfied Miss R has paid a deposit  for this 
car and to put her back into the position  she would have been in, or as close  as possible, the 
deposit also needs refunding to her.
I appreciate the deposit is not shown  on the hire purchase agreement, despite there being a 
specific place to record the deposit.  I also realise  the cash  price of the car is also likely 
wrong, for the reasons  explained above. And the second invoice doesnt  show the deposit or 
correct sale price. However, this is an issue I suggest RateSetter takes up with the credit  
broker that completed the paperwork. There is sufficient other evidence in this case  that 
demonstrates Miss R did part exchange  a car and receive £295  for that to be used as a 
deposit. Overall, Im satisfied the deposit  was paid and it should  now be refunded,  with 
interest. 
Ref: DRN75027193my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Retail Money  Market  Ltd T/A 
RateSetter and to settle the complaint RateSetter  should now:
 
Take back the car at no cost to Miss R.
Treat Miss Rs agreement as if her request to reject the car had been accepted,
including cancelling  the agreement with nothing left to pay.
Remove any negative  information recorded on Miss Rs credit file about this 
agreement.
Refund Miss R the £295 deposit  and pay 8% per year simple interest from the date it 
was paid until the date of settlement.
Pay £250 compensation Miss R, if it has not already been paid to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7502719