K820x#14complaint
The complainant complains about  problems  they experienced when they wanted to switch  
their current  account to Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
background
The complainant says that theyd  got to the end of an online application to switch their 
current account to Halifax only to find it couldnt  be completed.  The screen said there was 
an unidentified  error.  So the application had to be done again and this wasted  time.
During the application process they ticked a box to say they were  already registered for 
online banking - because  they had an existing  Halifax credit  card.  So the complainant 
expected both accounts to show on their mobile banking  app. However,  the new account  
never appeared. So they phoned Halifax  to find out why. But they say they were passed 
around, spent  a long time trying to resolve things and the complaint-handler was rude.
Halifax said the name and address the complainant  had given for their credit card account 
and current account  were different. This meant  Halifax created  two customer profiles for 
the complainant.  Halifax explained that the complainant would need to write in or go to a 
branch to enable  their details to be updated  and to merge the two profiles.
The complainant didnt want to visit a branch so Halifax was later able to amend the 
address over the phone,  but not their name.  The complainant  wasnt  happy and 
complained to Halifax.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. In its final response letter  it said the complainant  was 
unable to view their current account online due to there being two separate customer  
profiles. To sort matters out the complainant would need to visit a branch or write in to 
update their name.
The complainant says their current account  is now showing on their banking app so this 
contradicts what they were previously told by Halifax. The complainant now has an account 
thats open but the switch  hasnt taken place.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response the complainant referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax had acted unfairly. He was satisfied  that Halifax wasnt  
able to update the complainants name  over the phone and it was reasonable that Halifax 
needed to follow its procedures to verify certain  customer details. The understood why the 
complainant didnt want to go to write  in or go to a branch to update  their name  but that 
didnt mean  Halifax  had to change its internal procedures.
Although Halifax  couldnt  say why the current account was now showing on the 
complainants app  even  though itd said the accounts couldnt  be merged until the 
complainants details had been  updated   the investigator noted that Halifax thought it 
likely that when itd updated the complainants  address,  its systems  may have linked the 
profiles automatically.
The investigator didnt  think Halifax had done anything wrong in its handling of the complaint 
either. The investigator realised that the complainant had spent a long time on the phone but 
he thought Halifax  had explained  its processes to the complainant.  However, the 
complainant disagreed with what Halifax had told them.
Ref: DRN71418232The investigator noted that Halifax had cancelled the switch  as the complainant  had asked. 
And he also noted that Halifax had agreed  to close the account if requested by the 
complainant.
In summary  the investigator thought things could have gone more smoothly but he didnt 
agree that Halifax had acted unfairly or unreasonably. So he didnt require Halifax to do 
anything further.
The complainant disagrees with the investigators  view and says it was a pointless exercise. 
So the complainant has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  
the complainant  but I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I can see the complainant  thinks this service is biased in favour of financial organisations but 
Id like to reassure them that we are impartial. And Ive independently reviewed the 
information provided by both parties  to reach a fair outcome.
Its clear that the complainant found  the application process  and Halifaxs  procedures for 
updating customer information to be very frustrating. But as frustrating as the experience 
was for the complainant Im afraid  its not within our powers to require Halifax  to change the 
systems and processes  it has for opening  online switch accounts and for updating customer 
information. But I am able to decide  whether Halifax did something wrong, and, if so, to look 
at the impact  this has had on the complainant.
Based on the information Ive seen Im of the opinion that Halifax  hasnt acted unfairly. I 
think its reasonable that Halifax has processes and procedures  in place before it can 
update certain  customer information. Im satisfied that Halifaxs processes didnt allow it to 
update the complainants name over the phone. So it explained that the complainant would 
need to write  or go into branch to do this. I cant say Halifax  treated the complainant  
unfairly.
I also realise Halifax hasnt been able to say for certain why the complainant  is now able to 
view both accounts on their banking app. I think Halifaxs explanation  - that its likely that the 
two profiles linked when the complainants address  was updated   is reasonable and I dont 
have any reason to disbelieve  it.
The complainant also complains about the poor customer service received. I realise the 
complainant says they spent a long time on the phone but Im satisfied Halifax explained  its 
processes and what the complainant needed  to do to update  their details. But it seems  to me 
that the complainant didnt agree with Halifaxs processes and procedures. I can understand 
why the complainant may not have wanted to write  or go to a branch to update their details. 
But the complainant decided they didnt want to follow  the Halifaxs processes  which the 
complainant was entitled to do. But it doesnt mean  that Halifax treated the complainant 
unfairly.
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment  for the complainant. But it brings  to an 
end what we, as an informal dispute  resolution  service, can do to help.
Ref: DRN71418233my final decision
My final decision is that I do uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the complainant  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7141823