K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to open an account  for 
him because  of information it gathered  from fraud prevention and credit reference  agencies. 
Mr P is represented by his father,  Mr S.
background
Mr P applied for an account with Halifax. It has declined to open  an account, saying that this 
is because of information it received from credit reference and fraud  prevention databases. 
Mr P says that he shouldnt appear on any of the databases because he is under 16. Hed 
like to know that there isnt any adverse information  recorded against him which will affect  
him in the future. He also thought his application had been linked to a family member.
Halifax says that it carried  out its usual account opening procedures including  using 
information provided by credit reference  agencies and fraud  prevention databases. It said it 
wasnt going to open the account because of information it received  from the databases. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr Ps application  
for an account was made in his sole name and that the details of the family  member were 
only used as an introducer. She hadnt  seen any evidence that Halifax  had placed  any 
adverse markers  against Mr Ps name. She did say that a bank could choose who it has as 
its customers.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that the reasons the bank gave for declining the account were  
based on credit reference  reports and he doesnt  have any. He doesnt want  any negative 
markers against him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and building societies are entitled  to decide for themselves whether to do business  or 
continue doing  business with someone  if they dont  consider it appropriate to do so. This is 
the legitimate  exercise of their commercial judgement. But they shouldnt  decline to open  an 
account (or decide to close an account) without proper reason. And they are required to treat 
both new and existing  customers  fairly.
Mr P was a young person, aged between 11 and 15, when he applied  for the account.  
Because of this, he needed an adult representative  to introduce him. This was in line with 
the account terms and conditions.  Mr Ps introducer  was a family member.  This person acted 
as a representative and needed to provide proof  of their own identity  and address. Im 
satisfied they werent included  on the application. The type of account  Mr P applied for could 
only be in a sole name.
Halifax says that it carried  out its usual account opening procedures when it processed Mr 
Ps application, which included carrying out credit reference and fraud  prevention checks. 
Following these checks and the information it received, it decided  not to open the account. 
Halifax is entitled to do this and it doesnt have to provide a reason for its decision. So I dont 
think it acted unfairly.
Ref: DRN73504242Having carefully considered everything, I cant conclude  that Halifax  has acted unfairly. It 
has said that it has not placed  any markers against Mr Ps name. It is entitled to decide  for 
itself whether or not to open an account and Ive seen no evidence  to show  that it has acted 
unfairly in making  its decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7350424