K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs G say they are adamant they didnt take out PPI on their mortgage  and had no 
idea they had it. However, this did all happen about  25 years ago and I wouldnt necessarily 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  from that long ago. 
I can see on the mortgage application  form there is a question: Do you require cover 
against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment;  and the yes box has been  
ticked, with Mr Gs name hand  printed  below  it, with the figure  for monthly  benefit  being 
written in as £500.  And the box under second applicant is ticked  no. The bottom of the 
mortgage application form has been signed by both Mr and Mrs G. 
I realise this isnt definite proof that Mr and Mrs G agreed  to the PPI  the box could  have 
been ticked and the details filled in after they had signed it. But it is likely the insurance 
company, which  would be separate from the lender,  would then have written to Mr and Mrs 
G to confirm the policy was set up.
So, taking into account the length of time since  this happened, and the fact there is at least 
some evidence the PPI was agreed  to, it wouldnt be fair for me to say the PPI was added 
without Mr and Mrs Gs agreement. 
Ive thought about whether there are other reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold. But, having 
done so, I dont think it was:
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Its likely Mr G 
(the person covered) was eligible for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr G received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have 
put off the time when they would need to fall back on any other means  they may have 
Ref: DRN76637672had for paying  the mortgage.  This all would have put Mr and Mrs G in a more secure 
position, if theyd  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  the PPI when they took it 
out. So, overall, I think the PPI would have been  potentially useful and so a 
recommendation was suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr and Mrs G took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr G would have  been  affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7663767