K821x#15Complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) failed to identify that his 
loans were unaffordable. Mr C further says he was stuck  in a cycle  of borrowing from friends 
and family  and taking  out more loans to get him through  to the next month.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  7 May 2020. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr C accepted the 
provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add. Sunny didnt provide a response 
to the provisional  decision. 
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C accepted the provisional decision and Sunny  didnt respond  with any further 
comments or evidence it wanted  me to consider, I see no reason to depart  from the findings  
that I outlined  in my provisional decision. 
So, in summary,  I think Sunny was wrong to have allowed Mr C to continue to draw down on 
the running credit facility  from 4 October  2014. Ive explained below what Sunny needs to do 
to put things right. 
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on his running credit facility  from 
4 October 2014 until his facility closed;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative  information from Mr Cs credit file about  the facility  from  
4 October 2014 until the facility closed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN75168322My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75168323EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
Complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (trading as Sunny)  failed to identify that his loans were  
unaffordable. Mr C further says he was stuck in a cycle of borrowing from friends  and family  and 
taking out more loans to get him through to the next month.
Background
Mr C took out a running credit facility on 2 May 2014. Whilst I have limited information about the credit 
limit Sunny approved,  I believe this was around £750.  The facility was closed on 27 November 2014. 
In our adjudicators  findings,  he didnt  think Sunny was wrong to approve Mr Cs running credit facility,  
as the lenders checks were  proportionate.  But he thought the way Mr C used his facility, should  have 
caused Sunny concern.  And as a result, Sunny  should have stopped allowing Mr C to drawdown from 
29 July 2014.
Mr C appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings.
Sunny agreed that it could  have asked more questions from 28 October  2014. It offered to refund all 
interest from Mr Cs drawdowns taken out from this date, along with 8% simple interest and to amend  
his credit file. 
Mr C rejected Sunnys offer.  As no agreement could  be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  short-term 
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Having thought about the above, as well as the evidence available to me, Ive provisionally  decided to 
partly uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks in order to reasonably  conclude whether 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts, and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. Certain factors might  point to the 
fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN75168324the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
To begin with, Mr C has accepted our adjudicators  opinion about the checks  completed at the start of 
his running  credit facility  in May 2014  that Sunny wasnt wrong to approve it.
Because of this I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about Sunny  approving the facility.  
So, I wont be making  a decision about Sunnys initial checks at the start of the facility  and will instead  
focus on what  happened  after the sale.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
The relevant regulations in place at the time Mr C was given his RCF 
When Mr C had this facility,  Sunny was regulated  by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA). The 
consumer credit  sourcebook (section 6.7.2) says: a firm must monitor the customers repayment 
record and take action where  there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. So Ive 
thought about whether  Sunny did enough to monitor the facility  was it was approved.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny shouldve seen that Mr C was experiencing repayment difficulties by 
the time he applied for his  drawdown on 29 July 2014. By this point,  our adjudicator thought that 
Sunny should have  seen that Mr Cs borrowing suggested he mayve become reliant because of the 
number of drawdowns  he had taken  and that he wasnt managing his money  in a sustainable way.
I have considered our adjudicators points, but Im not satisfied that Sunny should have reasonably  
been aware  that Mr C was reliant on this facility by 29 July 2014. I say this because  although Mr C 
was borrowing his full credit limit and repaying  this in one go, he had only had the facility  for around 
three months. And during this time, he hadnt used his facility to the point where there was an obvious  
pattern in his borrowing.  
However, I do think the way Mr C was using his facility around this time should  have put Sunny on 
alert. Mr C requested drawdowns in July 2014  totalling £475. He repaid what he owed in full on 31 
July 2014. It appears that Sunny wrote off some of his balance to the amount of £146.93. Sunny 
hasnt told us the reasons why it wrote off the balance  so I dont have any further information about it.
After Mr C repaid his balance at the end of July 2014 he went  on to request  further drawdowns  a few 
weeks later. By 25 August 2014, he had drawdown a further £725 which was the majority of his credit 
limit. Mr C repeated the same pattern of behaviour in September 2014 by repaying what he owed in 
full and then coming back within a few weeks.
By 4 October 2014, I think  Sunny should have seen that Mr C was showing signs that he was relying 
on Sunnys facility inappropriately and I dont think Sunny should have allowed Mr C to drawdown 
from this point. 
Mr C had now held the facility for five months  and I dont think he was using his facility in-line with 
how it was intended. Mr C was repaying what he owed in full rather than repaying  what he owed in 
instalments  which is what Sunny thought would happen. And then he was returning  for further 
borrowing a week or two before he repaid  what he owed. This suggests  to me that Mr C wasnt 
repaying the drawdowns in a sustainable manner. 
So I think Sunny were  wrong to allow Mr C to continue  drawing down funds on his facility  from 4 
October 2014.
Ref: DRN7516832