K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains MBNA Limited didnt tell him his credit  file would be impacted if he missed a 
payment on his credit card account with them.
background
On 21 May 2018 Mr D called MBNA to tell them hed become unemployed. As a result of the 
information he gave  he was deemed as being  unable to afford to make  any payments. 
MBNA stopped all interest and charges and placed a restriction  on the account. At this time 
Mr Ds account was showing  one missed payment. Mr D called MBNA on 28 July 2018 and 
advised hed recently been refused a loan application due to arrears on his credit file. He 
complained hed been misinformed during the call on 21 May 2018.
MBNA said they were  satisfied Mr D was fully informed in the call on 21 May 2018.  They  told 
Mr D whilst they heard he wasnt happy with the situation in the call they do believe he 
understood it. So they didnt uphold the complaint.
MBNA sent Notice of Sums in Arrears on 19 July 2018 and 19 September  2019  to Mr D and 
on 1 November 2018 a Notice of Default  was also sent. Mr D contacted MBNA on 13 
November 2018  and made  a payment to clear the arrears and it appears the account is 
currently up to date.  He brought his complaint to us on 28 December 2018.
Our investigator was satisfied MBNA  warned Mr D during the call on 21 May 2018 that not 
making the minimum payments each month would affect his credit file. So he didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr D didnt agree. He said MBNA didnt make it clear enough during the call that late 
payment markers  would be recorded on his file and had caused misunderstanding.  And he 
didnt accept that hed confirmed his understanding of the late payment markers in the call. 
Mr D was sent a copy of the call recording and he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons.
This complaint hinges on what was said when Mr D called MBNA on 21 May 2018.  So Ive 
listened to the recording  of that call. Having done so Im satisfied our investigator  has given 
a full and accurate summary of the content of that call in his letter of 11 January 2019 setting 
out his view. I dont  think  its helpful to repeat it here but it follows that theres not a great 
deal I can add to what the investigators already told Mr D.
I can appreciate Mr Ds frustrated that his circumstances  led to his credit file being impacted. 
Its to his credit that he contacted MBNA and made them aware of those circumstances. In 
the call Mr D expressed the intention to use all the state benefit  payments he received whilst 
unemployed to meet  the minimum  payment each month as he didnt want  his credit file 
impacting as this would affect him in the future.  But as he didnt make those minimum 
payments I cant say MBNAs subsequent  actions  were  unreasonable.  And what  theyve 
reported to his credit file is an accurate  reflection of the situation  and one that MBNA clearly  
Ref: DRN70722442warned him about in the call. So, as I dont think MBNA have  done  anything wrong here,  I 
wont be asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7072244