K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complained  about Brighton  Williams & Partners (BWP) in respect of:
1.advice she received to transfer  her occupational pension  to a self-invested personal  
pension (SIPP)
2.advice she received to invest separate funds  (ie not in relation to the pension) into a 
General Investment Account  (GIA)  and an Individual Savings Account (ISA)
3.advice she received in respect  of the sale and/or  renovation of three properties.
Mrs W was initially  represented by a solicitor but shes since told us that shes no longer  
using them. For ease,  I will just refer to Mrs W even though some of the submissions were  
made by her solicitor  on her behalf.
background
I issued a provisional decision which set out the background to this complaint and the 
reasons why I thought it should  be upheld. The relevant parts  of my provisional decision are 
attached and they form part of my final decision.
To summarise, I provisionally concluded  that:
BWP didnt advise  Mrs W to sell her main  home
the advice  BWP  gave Mrs W on how to sell the main home was suitable
it wasnt within my jurisdiction to decide  whether BWP  gave Mrs W any advice in respect 
of the rental properties (although I didnt think any was given)
the advice  to invest in the GIA and ISA was suitable
the advice  to invest in the underlying funds in the GIA was unsuitable.
I set out in my provisional decision what I thought BWP  needed  to do to put matters  right.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs W told us that she didnt  agree with BWP's calculations in respect  of her pension  and 
she hadnt realised  that her solicitor hadnt  told us. However, in a later conversation with our 
investigator she said shed discussed  the calculations  with a pension  specialist but due to 
costs she didnt think it was worth pursuing.
She later made some other  points  in relation to my provisional decision:
Mr Ls notes from the initial meeting were wrong  eg reference to £16,000 as rainy day 
money  the figure is incorrect and it wasnt rainy day money
she commented on other notes Mr L had made  in respect of her pension  eg her pension  
provisions were  more than two occupational pensions
she confirmed having never received BWPs payment of £250.
I asked Mrs W to clarify the current position with her investments and she said:
the funds in the GIA were  moved to a savings account straight away (ie from June 2016)
the funds in the ISA remained where they were until mid-2020;  they were  then withdrawn 
and put into the same  savings account.
Ref: DRN78018272BWP made two points in response to my provisional decision:
it ceased being Mrs Ws financial advisor  on 28 June 2016  so it had no opportunity to 
review her investments  since then  which might have led to fund switches  being made 
in line with her attitude towards  risk (as happened in November 2015); it didnt therefore 
agree that compensation should be paid for any losses beyond 28 June  2016
a recommendation  to switch funds was made in November 2015   it feels  this 
recommendation was suitable and in line with Mrs Ws attitude to risk and shouldnt  
therefore be reflected  in any compensation calculation.
BWP also confirmed that on 16 June 2016   when it received Mrs Ws complaint  both the 
ISA and GIA were  in force  with values of £56,994.39 (ISA) and £97,750.08  (GIA). It didnt 
process any transactions beyond that date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
pension
As Mrs W has now indicated that she didnt agree with BWPs calculations  Ill cover this 
issue off first.
Normally in cases like this the first issue I decide is whether the advice to transfer a pension 
was appropriate  or suitable. I dont think I need  to do that in this case because  the issue is 
no longer in dispute  as our adjudicator concluded  that the advice was unsuitable and BWP 
accepted that conclusion.
The second  issue  I decide is what the financial business needs to do to put things right. In 
essence, I need to consider whether or not the consumer  has been disadvantaged by 
following the advice.  The calculations needed  to compare a consumers current  position  with 
the position they would have been in had they not followed  the advice are often  complex and 
we dont have  the resources to do them ourselves.  So I would normally get the financial 
business to do a comparison, by following a set formula.
In this case our adjudicator felt that BWP should  calculate any loss suffered using guidance  
issued by the regulator in 2017. This is the same  formula I would have  asked BWP to use.
The issue  now is that the calculations show Mrs W is actually in a better position than what 
she would  have been in had she not transferred. As Ive said above, apart from carrying  out 
a cursory check for basic errors, I dont have the resources  available to forensically examine 
BWPs calculations. However, I can see the calculations were  done by a firm of actuaries 
and having looked at them I cant see any clear  and obvious errors.
So I dont  think theres anything further that BWP needs to do as its already done what I 
would have required it to do.
Mrs Ws further comments
Reference I made in my provisional  decision to Mr Ls notes was simply a re-iteration of what  
hed recorded  at the time. Ive noted the inaccuracies that Mrs W has pointed out; however, I 
Ref: DRN78018273dont think they alter the overall conclusions Ive reached in respect of the advice she 
received.
As I said in my provisional decision,  if the £250  compensation  suggested by our adjudicator  
remains outstanding  then this should now be paid directly to Mrs W. If payment has in fact 
been made to Mrs Ws previous solicitor and the cheque has been cashed, Mrs W will need 
to pursue this directly  with the solicitor.
BWPs further comments
I note what BWP  has said about  it no longer being  Mrs W's financial advisor. So I think any 
comparison in calculating  a potential loss on the investment should  be up to 28 June 2016.  
But I dont think this means all compensation calculations  should stop at 28 June 2016.  Ive 
explained the reasons why below. And Ive amended the proposed compensation 
calculations to take this into account.
Ive noted what  BWP has said about  the fund switch in late 2015,  but I dont think  it makes a 
difference to my decision.  I say this because while it might be the case  that some  of Mrs Ws 
investments became more in line with her attitude  to risk it remains  my view that that wasnt  
always the case (as per the reasons outlined in my provisional decision). And the overall 
investment initially being  a slightly higher risk than Mrs W wanted to take would have had an 
effect on the overall value of her investment when  the fund switch was recommended and 
when Mrs W ceased being  BWPs client.
Summary
Having considered the parties additional comments I remain satisfied that the outcome I 
reached in my provisional decision  is fair and reasonable.  
Putting things  right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation my aim is to put Mrs W as close to the 
position she would probably be in now if she hadnt been given unsuitable advice. I think  
Mrs W would  have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given her 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
To compensate Mrs W fairly, I think BWP should compare the performance of Mrs W's 
investments with that of the benchmark  shown below and pay the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value  of the investment. BWP should also pay interest  as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value,  no compensation (including interest) is payable.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
GIA closedFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total Return Index; 
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed  rate bondsdate of 
investment 28 June 20168% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days 
of BWP being 
notified of 
Ref: DRN78018274acceptance)
I want to clarify and confirm two slight changes to what  I said in my provisional decision.  In 
my provisional decision, under the heading investment name I mentioned both the GIA and 
the ISA. However,  this was incorrect as I didnt  and dont   conclude that the underlying  
investment in the ISA was unsuitable  (because even though  the underlying assets were 
similar to the GIA, because of the tax benefits of an ISA its likely  that Mrs W would  have 
drawn on these funds last; so they probably  could have been  invested longer term). Ive also 
changed the end date from the date of my decision  to 28 June 2016. This is because BWP 
ceased being Mrs Ws advisor at that date.
Actual value  means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. Fair 
value is what the investment  would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  BWP should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if BWP totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted income with some growth  with a small  risk to her capital
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.; it would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return
I consider that Mrs W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives; so, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mrs W into that position. It doesnt mean that Mrs W would have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
fund; rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mrs W could  have obtained  from investments suited to her objective and risk 
attitude.
Additional loss
The above  comparison  will show if Mrs W suffered any loss on the GIA up to 28 June 2016 
(when BWP stopped  being her advisor). But Mrs W might  have  suffered  further  loss beyond 
then that BWP might  also need  to compensate her for.
Mrs W withdrew the funds from the GIA and deposited them into the savings account. I 
assume she earned interest in this savings account. So any loss suffered  on the investment 
Ref: DRN78018275up to June 2016 will be compounded by further  lost interest paid in the savings account. To 
explain this by way of a simple  example:
lets say the actual value of the GIA was £10,000 and that the savings account paid 
1% interest per annum
so the interest  earned in the savings account  would be £100 (1% of £10,000)
but the comparison formula outlined above  shows that the fair value of the GIA was 
£11,000
so the interest  that would have been  earned on this amount (ie had it not been for the 
unsuitable advice) would have been  £110 (1% of £11,000)
so on top of the £1,000 lost on the initial investment (ie the difference between the 
fair value and the actual value),  theres also an ongoing loss of £10 in interest.
So if Mrs W suffered  a loss on the GIA (because the fair value is higher than the actual 
value) BWP should also pay interest  on the loss amount.  I say this because  I think its fair 
that Mrs W be compensated for any interest she lost as a result  of depositing the actual 
value into the account rather than the fair value. The rate of interest payable on the loss 
amount should  be the same rate of interest  that Mrs W earned  in her savings account;  and 
the interest should  be calculated from 28 June 2016  to the date of my final decision. To 
avoid any doubt:
the interest payable  in this respect  will only apply on any difference  between the fair 
value and the actual value   because Mrs W would already have earned interest on the 
actual value
BWP can take any withdrawals that Mrs W made  from the bank account after 28 June 
2016 into account in respect of the interest calculations  so interest wont  be payable on 
funds withdrawn from the account  from the date they were withdrawn
its likely  that BWP will need information from Mrs W (eg the rate of interest her bank 
account earned) in order to complete the calculations; but any delay in Mrs W providing 
such information wont affect the interest  payable in this respect  because  its only 
payable up to the date of this decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Brighton Williams & Partners  to pay the amount calculated  
as set out in the putting things right section above. I also require it to pay Mrs W the 
previously agreed £250 compensation  if it hasnt  done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2021.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78018276Copy of Provisional Decision
background
Mrs W now considers the issue regarding the pension advice resolved (see below). The background I 
outline below therefore  excludes what happened in that respect.
Mrs W first met BWPs advisor (Mr L) in April 2012. Mr L made  several notes  of the meeting 
regarding Mrs Ws current position, including:
shed been referred to BWP to get general advice in respect of her finances
she owned her main  residence and two rental properties
other assets included a paddock, some shares (valued at around £16,000 and paying dividends 
of around £500 every six months) and about £16,000 on deposit which she used as rainy day 
money and to top up her earnings.
A budget that was completed showed that Mrs W received  £967 a month from the two rental  
properties, but that her expenditure each month exceeded  her income  by £360.  Mr L therefore noted 
that hed need to assess how her existing funds would  be used to maintain her day-to-day expenses.
Regarding the future Mr Ls notes said:
Mrs W was happy to remain at her main residence but it was likely  shed move to one of the rental 
properties within  15 years
she had little passion  for the rental properties and didnt enjoy being a landlord  but she was 
reluctant to sell one of them as she had a good  tenant
she may get planning permission to build a new home on the paddock
there was likely to be some immediate  expenditure (about £2,500 to renovate the main residence 
and about £30,000 to buy a new car)
discussions  took place about:
oselling one of the rental properties to yield about  £50,000  to £60,000 to cater for Mrs Ws 
immediate capital needs with the balance potentially being used to subsidise her income 
until she received the state benefit  Mrs W thought this might  be wise so the advisor 
would investigate further
oselling the shares  Mrs W was happy to consider this
oselling the field as it wasnt  generating any income
the sale of the main residence  would follow which  would generate a further sum to top up Mrs Ws 
capital to create an income.
Mrs W told us that shed  been considering  various  options for her properties  including developing 
the main residence,  selling  it, building  an annex and/or  re-opening a camp site. She also questioned 
the accuracy of the budget.
A further meeting took place in July. Mr Ls notes say the main purpose of the meeting was to discuss 
Mrs Ws pension arrangements, but he made other notes that I think are relevant  to this complaint:
that Mrs W had decided to sell the main  residence  (it was on the market) and intended  to sell one 
of the rental properties and then live in the other one  with the aim of repaying all the mortgages
Mrs Ws income needs would be relatively  low once the day-to-day costs of the other properties 
and the maintenance costs of the main residence  were removed
a discussion took place about Mrs Ws need  for cash  given  that the property sales would  provide 
a significant amount of funds
a discussion took place about Mrs Ws attitude to risk  a questionnaire provided a score of 6/10;  
however some answers were contradictory and Mrs W said she wanted to take a cautious 
approach; so a score  of 4/10 was agreed as a starting point.
Ref: DRN78018277Another meeting took place in October. Mr Ls notes record that:
the main home was now sold (subject to contract) and one of the rental properties would be sold 
 with the funds used to repay  the mortgages
Mrs W would then live in the other rental property
he would discuss final investment advice once the funds (from the sale of the main residence)  
were available
a further  questionnaire about Mrs Ws attitude  to risk was completed,  which  showed similar 
results to the first one  although Mrs W said she was now more comfortable taking the risk the 
questionnaire suggested  ie 6/10.
Mrs W met with Mr L again  in December.  Its recorded  that:
Mr L was now at a point  where he could  give final advice
Mrs W had now sold the main  home and was living  in a rented property while her two rental 
properties were  prepared for sale
it was anticipated that the funds from the sale of the two rental properties  would enable the 
mortgages to be repaid with the remainder going towards the purchase of a new property for her 
main residence
she had about £377,000 in her bank account
her intention was to use the investment  advised by Mr L to generate an income  that she would 
live on  although it was accepted  that the income  generated may come from a combination  of 
both income  and capital
it was agreed  that:
o£85,000 would be held on deposit while the rental properties were being sold so there 
was sufficient money available for a future home purchase
oup to £32,000 would remain in the bank account to cover some immediate  costs eg a new 
car; work  on the properties
which left £260,000  for immediate investment
regarding Mrs Ws attitude  to risk, she said she wanted to take a more cautious approach with the 
investment so it was agreed that the lower score (4/10) should  apply.
Following the meeting, Mr L formally recommended  that Mrs W:
leave £32,000  in the existing bank account
transfer £85,000  to a savings  account
transfer £11,280  to a stocks and shares ISA
invest £248,720 in a GIA.
He also said that setting up a regular income from the investments would be deferred until Mrs Ws 
monthly budget was known, but that the money in the bank account would cover any income shortfall 
and expenses  in the interim.
In December 2013, Mr L again  met with Mrs W to discuss any alterations that were  needed. It was 
recorded that:
Mrs W had completed the renovation  of one of the rental properties  and was now living there
her attitude to risk hadnt  changed
she didnt want to withdraw any capital from the investments
Mr L said it would be logical to switch some of her existing investments in the GIA to the ISA and 
that the funds remained as they were
Mrs W was confused  about whether she wanted to remain in the property as a home  or sell, and 
that she was contemplating the sale of her other rental property as it wasnt yielding  a particularly 
high income  she anticipated possibly  selling  both rental  properties  and buying a new home.
Ref: DRN78018278In December 2014 Mr L again  met with Mrs W. His notes record  that:
Mrs W had now sold one of her rental properties and was about to complete  on the sale of the 
remaining one
this would  provide  funds  which she would use to buy another home   although she would need to 
drawdown on the existing investments as the funds from the sales werent enough to buy the new 
home
the attitude to risk was again discussed but the outcome was the same (even though some 
answers changed) 
Mrs W felt the funds  would supplement  her income  but until she had bought a new house she 
couldnt say what she needed in terms of income  it was agreed to therefore  maintain the status 
quo pending a further review  within  six months when  she would  hopefully have agreed a 
purchase and possibly  completed.
Mr L met with Mrs W again  in July 2015  to review the existing investments. Its recorded  that:
Mrs W had sold her final rental property  and she intended to use the funds to buy another home
it was agreed  that the current risk profile  should be maintained
some assets  were  in cash pending the search for a new home
it was agreed  to maintain the status  quo pending a further review within six months when Mrs W 
would hopefully have  agreed a purchase of a new home.
Another meeting took place in November  to again review things. Mr Ls notes  record:
Mrs W had recently  moved into a new home
because of the instability of her life at the time she was unable  to be clear as to her longer term 
objectives with her investments
maintaining  the status quo was probably  the most appropriate  action  with the anticipation that 
she may start to withdraw income once  shes happier  with her budgeting
Mr L went through the valuations for the investments and Mrs W was happy with how they had 
performed
Mrs W had £19,000  held on deposit in addition to the investments; however it was likely shed 
need some capital in order to renovate the new property  although it was hard to predict  how 
much shed need and it was possible she may need  to withdraw  from the investments
Mrs Ws attitude to risk was again discussed  and a further questionnaire was completed  this 
showed a score of 6/10 but when  her capacity for loss was considered it was agreed it should be 
4/10
it was agreed  the investment funds  may need to be altered as recent reviews suggested  they 
were no longer approved
a further  switch of funds  from the GIA to the ISA was fine (Mr L formally recommended  this in 
February 2016)
future reviews  would hopefully  help Mr L and Mrs W to agree a monthly  budget for her required 
income but in the meantime capital  withdrawals  would likely continue on an as and when needed  
basis.
Shortly after the meeting Mr L wrote to Mrs W saying  that she wasnt drawing an income but was 
unclear on her needs. He said she would try and establish a budget over the next six months to 
perhaps look at generating a regular income.
Mr L met Mrs W again in June 2016 (for what I understand was the final time). His notes  record:
Mrs W had been experiencing some issues with building work shed had done to her home  and 
she might need  to spend  her own money  to rectify the problems  Mr L said she was able to use 
her own funds and emphasised that making  her home liveable, comfortable and saleable was the 
priority
Ref: DRN78018279she was concerned that she was overspending   Mr L re-iterated the above and said she could 
access equity in her property in her later years if she really needed it
she still had no firm income and was reliant upon her savings to fund her living  Mr L  said she 
needed to work out a sensible budget so they could confirm an income  stream; but Mrs W said 
she wasnt able to do this because so much else was going on
Mr L said Mrs W had around £219,000 across  her investment funds  and that it was available  to 
her (albeit  with different  tax implications)
Mr L said the investment  markets were generally turbulent but Mrs W had done well against the 
general trends
Mrs W was of the mind that she needed  to maintain  the status quo and the investments  were 
doing their job of managing risk; she suggested she may need funds  to do the repair  work
it was agreed  that with the possible turbulence in the market (due to the Brexit referendum) it 
might be wise to hold a sum in cash to mitigate potential losses  it was agreed that not all should 
be held in cash as it was invested for longer term growth and potential  future  income; but a sum 
of £50,000 was agreed to cover the immediate short term income needs and some building  works 
(this recommendation was formally made by email the following  day, alongside a 
recommendation that investments in the GIA be sold to fund the transfer)
Mr L would seek to review again in six months.
A few days later Mrs W asked that all the funds in the GIA be moved into cash.
In addition to the advice mentioned above about Mrs Ws investments,  Mrs W was in regular contact 
with Mr L about renovating and selling her properties and buying the new property.
In mid-June 2016 Mrs W complained to BWP as she felt shed been poorly advised. BWP 
investigated the matter and issued its final response in May 2017. In summary, it felt the advice in 
respect of the investments and the movement of funds to the ISA was suitable. For the issues Mrs W 
raised about  advice in respect of the properties, BWP said Mr Ls involvement  and opinions were 
given in good  faith with the aim being to assist  Mrs W and alleviate some of the stress she was 
feeling. It said that ultimately Mrs W discussed matters with other people and made  her own 
decisions.
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld in part. He felt the 
pension transfer advice was unsuitable, but the investment advice  was suitable. In order to put things 
right our adjudicator suggested that BWP calculate  any loss Mrs W might have suffered as per the 
regulators guidance. He also felt BWP should pay Mrs W £250 compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
BWP did the necessary  calculations  which  showed that Mrs W had actually gained  from the pension 
transfer. It therefore said it didnt  propose making a further  settlement offer. Mrs W asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. She confirmed  her agreement with our adjudicators conclusion 
in respect of the pension advice; but she disagreed  with the conclusion about the investment advice.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
advice on pension transfer (for completeness)
As Mrs W has confirmed that she accepts/agrees with our adjudicators  conclusion, this issue is no 
longer in dispute  as agreement  has essentially been reached.  I havent therefore  considered  this part 
of the complaint and I havent reached any conclusion  on the reasonableness  (or otherwise) of the 
advice she received.
The only point I make  is that the compensation suggested by our adjudicator  was for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by BWP due to the pension advice  given. I understand BWP  paid the 
Ref: DRN780182710compensation but the cheque was later returned by Mrs W because of her request for an ombudsman 
to review her complaint. If the compensation  remains outstanding then payment  should be made  as 
per the initial  agreement.
advice on the sale of Mrs Ws main home
Before our adjudicator  investigated the complaint one of my colleagues ruled  that any advice Mrs W 
received fell within our jurisdiction. However, decisions on jurisdiction are never  final until an 
ombudsman issues a final decision on the merits of the complaint.
The rules we operate  under say that I can consider  a complaint if it relates  to an act or omission by a 
financial business in carrying  on a regulated activity, or any ancillary activity (including advice)  in 
connection with that regulated activity. Mrs W argued that advice she received from Mr L in respect of 
selling her main home  falls within our jurisdiction because it was ancillary to the advice he gave about 
the investment  (which is a regulated activity). She says advice to sell the home was intrinsically linked 
to the investment advice because  were  it not for her selling the home there wouldnt have been any 
advice on the investment  as she wouldnt have had any money to invest.
BWP argues that no advice  was given  to sell the property  its advice was only in respect of how to 
invest the funds following  the sale, which  it didnt  think could be intrinsically linked to Mrs Ws decision 
to sell the property.
I agree with my colleague  that any advice Mrs W received from Mr L in respect of selling the main  
home falls within our jurisdiction. This is because it was intrinsically  linked (and therefore ancillary)  to 
the main investment advice as Mrs W wouldnt have had the money to invest  if she didnt sell the 
property.
Moving on to the advice itself,  its clear  Mr L discussed the sale of Mrs Ws main  home with her at 
various stages throughout 2012. I need to decide  whether those  discussions amounted to advice  and, 
if so, whether the advice was suitable.
There is nothing in Mr Ls notes from the meetings throughout  2012 that suggest  to me any advice 
was given  to Mrs W to sell her properties. Rather, the conversations seem to have been more  about  
what Mrs W was thinking of doing and what she could potentially do in order to generate some funds.
Mrs W has referred to notes she made in her diary throughout 2012 as evidence supporting that Mr L 
did advise her to sell her home. Ive detailed  below what was recorded in the diary and what  Mr Ls 
comments about those notes are:
Date  of note What was recorded in Mrs Ws 
diaryMr Ls recollection
May and 
JuneYes, put [the property] on market, 
dont sell until get good price
Give [estate agent] 4 wks from 
today  then review ? auctionThese conversations  were  Mrs W asking if it would  
be ok to put the home on the market and he said 
yes but to make sure you get a good price; and 
Mrs W was stressed,  there had been  no interest in 
the property  and she was talking about  sending it 
to auction; he suggested that she allow  the estate 
agents four weeks to try and sell the property and 
if it didnt  sell to then consider  auctions
July (after 
the home 
was on the 
market)Mr L said she can reduce  the 
asking price to £320,000-
£350,000,He wouldnt have quoted  an exact figure but the 
conversation would have discussed the merits of 
retaining the current asking price or reducing it 
slightly to try and obtain interest  in the property; 
his meeting notes from the same day say that 
Mrs W had decided  to sell the home and it was on 
the market for £395,000 (anticipating £350,000 as 
a final sale price).
Ref: DRN780182711August Mr L told her to say no to a swap  
or development (NB  Mrs W had 
been discussing the possible  
development of the property  or 
swapping properties  with a 
neighbour)He told Mrs W that people or companies who call 
directly probably wont give the best deal and he 
asked if shed  been given  any timescales  for the 
development etc; also said he suggested that if 
Mrs W was looking to go down this route she 
should investigate other similar companies.
Its true that if the property  hadnt been sold there wouldnt have been any funds  available for Mrs W 
to invest,  which in turn meant Mr L wouldnt have  been  in a position to give the investment advice. 
However, theres nothing Ive seen which persuades me that Mr L specifically advised  Mrs W to sell 
the home.
The only potential reference  to Mr L telling/advising  Mrs W to sell the property is the diary note about 
him saying yes to putting the property on the market. But I dont think  thats sufficient  enough to 
show that he advised her to do so. I think its significant that Mr L recalls that it was Mrs W who asked 
him if it was ok to put the property on the market. In my view that recollection is supported by Mrs Ws 
diary entry starting  with yes  which  suggests to me that Mr L was answering a question  put to him.
I therefore  conclude that Mr L gave Mrs W no advice  to sell the property.
Its nevertheless  most  likely from what  Ive seen that Mr L gave Mrs W advice   or his opinion  in 
respect of how to sell the property (as opposed to advice to actually  sell it). But I dont think any 
advice/opinion he gave  was unsuitable. It was reasonable in my opinion for Mr L to have told Mrs W 
to get a good  price for the property, to consider  an auction if the estate agent  couldnt sell it, and to 
reduce the asking price in order to attract potential buyers.
advice on the renovation and sale of Mrs Ws two rental properties
My colleague ruled  that any advice Mrs W might have received in this respect fell outside of our 
jurisdiction. The same  rules apply as Ive outlined above in respect of decisions on jurisdiction  never 
being final until an ombudsman  issues a final decision on the merits of the complaint, and that the 
complaint needs to relate to an act or omission by a financial business  in carrying on a regulated 
activity, or any ancillary activity in connection with that regulated activity.
I dont think from what Ive seen  recorded from the various conversations that Mr L advised Mrs W to 
sell either of the properties. Rather, the impression  I get is that Mrs W was telling Mr L what she had 
done or proposed  doing and Mr L was discussing  the possibilities  once each property was sold. And I 
think Mrs W probably made the decisions herself rather than Mr L telling her what  to do. However,  
even if Mr L did advise Mrs W to sell the properties, I cant make an actual judgement on that either 
way as I think this part of the complaint is outside of my jurisdiction.
Mrs W again argues that the alleged advice she received  from Mr L in respect of renovating and 
selling her two rental properties  falls within  our jurisdiction  because it was ancillary to the advice he 
gave about the investment.  I dont think any potential advice in this respect  was intrinsically linked  to 
the investment  advice  in the same way as any advice  to sell the main property. I say this because  it 
cant be argued that were it not for the sale of the properties  there wouldnt have been any money to 
invest. The two properties were sold after the investment advice was given and Mr L didnt give 
Mrs W any advice in respect of investing the proceeds from the sales.
Mrs Ws argument  here is more that advice  on the rental properties was intrinsically linked to the 
investment advice because in order to follow  the recommended investment advice  she had to sell the 
two rental properties to free up funds to maintain  her day-to-day living, and the advice to sell the 
rental properties was a strategy devised by Mr L to generate sufficient  funds  for her day-to-day living 
in order to negate the need for her to seek an income  from the investment.
Mrs W wasnt drawing a regular income from the investment  in the sense that it wasnt paying  her a 
monthly amount.  The capital  invested was simply  growing. And Mrs W could derive  income from it  in 
Ref: DRN780182712terms of receiving funds to spend/live off  by withdrawing from the capital (which I understand she 
did). This ties in with BWPs position that the money invested was to provide Mrs W with an income 
(or funds) as and when required.
Obviously, Mrs W needed  money  to live off and I understand the argument she makes. But I dont 
think the circumstances here amount  to the sale of the properties  or any advice in that respect  
being ancillary  to the investment advice. Advising Mrs W to sell the properties in order to generate 
funds for her to live off would, in essence,  be no different  to advising her to get a job and generate the 
funds that way. And I dont think it could be argued that advice about  getting  a job would be 
considered part and parcel of any investment advice. Its also the case that following the initial 
investment advice Mrs W had around £117,000 in the bank  that she could  use to supplement  her 
income from the rental properties.
I therefore  agree  with my colleagues ruling Mrs Ws complaint about any advice  she received falls 
outside of our jurisdiction.
advice on the purchase of Mrs Ws new home
Its not clear to me whether this forms part of Mrs Ws complaint so Im going to cover it off here for 
completeness as I cant see that its been mentioned previously.
There are records  of discussions taking place about Mrs Ws new home  eg how much she could 
spend, problems  with delays, repairs/alterations. In my view, the discussions centred on how Mrs W 
might spend the funds  she withdraws from the GIA account (including how much she spends). They 
werent about  the investment itself. I liken the situation to an example of someone withdrawing money 
from a bank account  and discussing with the bank  teller  what  theyre going  to buy. It couldnt  be said 
that discussion is ancillary to the regulated activity of the bank providing  the bank account. I think  the 
same applies here.
So any discussions that took place  in this respect (whether amounting to advice or not) werent 
ancillary to the investment  advice and dont therefore fall within our jurisdiction.
investment advice
Mrs W told us the sole reason she contacted BWP in 2012 was because she owned  three properties 
and the income she received  from them wasnt viable. Her over-riding immediate  concern was a lack 
of income and she didnt know what was best to do as her bank had advised  her to hold onto her 
assets  so she wanted advice on how to keep the properties and get some  income so she was able 
to run them.
It isnt clear to me how Mrs W could keep the properties  and also increase the income for her to live 
off. Although she disputes  the figures in the budget that was prepared at the original  meeting, it 
doesnt look to be in dispute  that her monthly outgoings exceeded her monthly earnings. At the time 
her only income was from the rental properties and the money she held on deposit was fairly limited.  
So apart from selling some  assets (eg the shares, the field, one or more of the properties) or finding 
employment, its not clear  to me what else Mrs W could have done to generate more  income for her 
living expenses and to run the properties.
By the time the investment advice was given Mrs W had around £377,000 sitting in her bank account 
following the sale of her main home. Shes said this would have earned around £400  a month (ie 
approximately 1%) in interest. I therefore think it was reasonable  for Mr L to provide advice  on how 
she could invest that money in order to earn more than £400 a month.
However, there was a requirement for Mr L to act in Mrs Ws best interests and to ensure that the 
recommended investment  was suitable for her circumstances at the time. In practice, when deciding  
whether or not advice was suitable I need to see that Mr L got necessary information from Mrs W 
regarding her:
Ref: DRN780182713knowledge and experience in the investment  field relevant to the advice
financial situation (eg capacity to suffer  a loss)
investment  objectives  (eg growth, income)
attitude to risk and
how long she wanted  to invest  for.
When Mr L made the recommendation in December 2012  he produced a report  which, amongst  other 
things, summarised  the discussions hed had with Mrs W. Mrs W has at times said the report  isnt 
accurate and that she spoke to Mr L about it but was re-assured by his comments. She also signed a 
declaration shortly after receiving it confirming that it was a fair reflection  of the conversations. Theres 
no other record  such as a video recording  for example   of what  was discussed  at the various  
meetings. However, given Mrs Ws signed declaration, on balance  I therefore  think  its fair to consider 
that the report  is an accurate reflection of the discussions that took place.
The report referred to Mrs W completing  a risk profiling questionnaire to assess  her knowledge, 
experience, attitude towards investment risk and capacity for loss. It also said Mrs Ws intention was 
to use the investment to generate an income that she would use to live on. Im therefore  satisfied that 
Mr L obtained sufficient information from Mrs W.
In order  to decide whether Mr Ls recommendation was suitable I need to look at whether  it was 
consistent with Mrs Ws objectives and whether the underlying investments matched her risk profile. 
Mrs Ws overall objective was to achieve an income  from the investment. BWP has told us that when 
the advice was given Mrs W didnt need an income per se from the GIA and she had no intention  of 
withdrawing money from it as she would  have £32,000 in her existing account and £85,000 in a 
savings account  for her income needs. So it was agreed the remaining  invested funds would  be for 
capital growth. It also said Mrs W never asked for a regular income.
I dont think income from an investment necessarily means  a regular cash payment being  paid to the 
investor (although  that was an option if Mrs W wanted to regularly withdraw funds  from the GIA). The 
growth of the capital invested isnt strictly income; however  the growth  can be used  to supplement 
income. So I think the recommended  investments were suitable in order to achieve  the overall 
objective of receiving an income  ie via the growth of the investment.
However, for reasons outlined below, Im not persuaded that the investment overall  was suitable.
The questionnaire Mrs W completed asked when she intended to use the money  that was invested.  
She said long-term, which  was described  as 10+ years. Risk Warnings for both the GIA and ISA 
were given to Mrs W alongside Mr Ls report and these both said the investment should be 
considered for the medium to long-term  and shouldnt be entered into if the customer envisaged 
withdrawing their capital  before this time. The report also said Mr L would only tend to recommend an 
asset-backed investment where the consumer was willing to have a five years plus view to 
investment. So on the face of it, the GIA and ISA fitted  with Mrs Ws intention to not use the money  for 
another 10 years  or so.
However, when the advice was given,  it was recorded that Mrs Ws two rental properties  were  being 
prepared for sale and that the funds from the sales would partly pay for a new property. It was also 
recognised that Mrs Ws income generated from the investment might come from a combination  of 
both income  and capital. Given the uncertainties around Mrs W selling  properties and what  income  
she would actually need, I think it was likely  that she needed access to the capital within five years.  I 
further think  Mr L ought to have recognised this and questioned Mrs Ws intention to not use the 
money invested for another 10+ years.
Nevertheless, whilst in general investments that include fluctuating  assets are recommended for the 
mid-to long term,  it doesnt mean funds cant be invested in them. If earlier access to the funds  is 
needed then it might be the case  that lower risk investments with less fluctuations might be more 
Ref: DRN780182714suitable. Its also the case  here that because of the tax benefits of an ISA its likely that Mrs W would  
have drawn  on these  funds last. So they probably could have been invested longer term.
I dont think that Mr L advising Mrs W to invest in the GIA or ISA was unsuitable per se. Mrs W had 
money on deposit that could have been used in the short to medium term to supplement her income 
while and her circumstances were changing. So advice to invest the remaining funds, and to re-visit 
the income issue later seems reasonable.
Nevertheless, following  on from what Ive just said, I note that Mrs Ws attitude to risk at the time of 
the recommendation was agreed at 4/10 as she wanted  to take a more cautious approach with the 
investment. The report detailed the underlying  funds Mr L recommended that Mrs W invest in. Its 
finely balanced but having looked at those funds Im not persuaded that overall they match the more  
cautious approach that Mrs W wanted  to take. There are some lower risk investments there,  but I 
think the proportion that was invested  in equities makes the overall investment slightly  higher risk than 
what Mrs W wanted  to take. The risk ratings attached to the fund showing in the report (ie 3/6 and 
4/6) also suggested theyre a slightly above average risk.
I therefore  conclude that the recommendation was unsuitable as it wasnt in line with Mrs Ws attitude  
to risk.
Mrs W also referred to the fact she wanted to repay her mortgages but Mr L said capital growth was 
better. BWP has said that Mrs W took what Mr L told her out of context.  It said the conversation was 
around Mrs Ws ultimate intentions and the options were  to pay off the mortgage (around  £40,000) 
using funds from her investment or continuing to pay £140 a month in mortgage repayments until she 
sold the property. And it was agreed the mortgage would  stay and the monies left invested for capital  
growth.
If Mrs W had withdrawn money from her investment and repaid her mortgage she would have 
obviously stopped  paying the monthly mortgage repayments. But conversely the amount she had 
invested would be less because shed withdrawn it in order  to pay the mortgage.  So the potential  
earnings from the investment in terms of growth would be less. I havent seen any figures  which show 
one way or another whether  the potential growth lost would have outweighed the amount  Mrs W 
would have saved in not having to pay the mortgage  repayments. But Mr Ls advice doesnt strike me 
on the face of it as unreasonable.
Ref: DRN7801827