K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Red Sands  Insurance  Company (Europe) Limited 
unfairly refused  to pay their claim under their pet policy.  And further that it then unfairly  
imposed retrospective  exclusions  on their policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F bought this policy online on 28 February 2017.  Its a policy  that covers their 
dog for life, provided  its renewed every  year.  This means that should  their dog suffer  any 
condition, that condition  is covered for life subject  to the annual claim amounts per 
condition, which in Mr and Mrs Fs case, is £1,000 per condition  (less  the excess and 
any co-payment etc.), given they bought the Super  policy.
Their dog became ill in October 2017  and the vet diagnosed it was bladder  stones for 
which he needed  an operation. Their dog made a successful  recovery. Mr and Mrs F 
made a claim to Red Sands and it obtained the full vet history for their dog. It then  
said Mr and Mrs F failed to disclose their dog suffered from cystitis in October 2016. It said 
had it known that it would have excluded  everything to do with the urinary tract system from 
the cover  of this policy.
So it refused  to pay their claim and imposed  the urinary tract exclusion. Mr and Mrs F then 
brought their complaint  to us. The investigator  recommended that their complaint should be 
upheld. He said Red Sands should pay their claim and not impose  the exclusion until 
February 2018. 
Red Sands  failed to respond to the investigators  view so Mr and Mrs Fs complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2018  and said the following:
In order for Red Sands  to show Mr and Mrs F didnt disclose their dogs medical 
history it needs to show what questions it asked them about their dogs medical 
history. Here Red Sands issued Mr and Mrs Fs policy in February 2017, with some 
presumptions. The relevant one in their schedule is as follows:
Your pet has not suffered from any disease/illness/injury or undergone  
veterinary treatment and is not currently showing any signs of any 
disease/illness other than any claims [Red Sands] is dealing  with 
Mr and Mrs F think this presumption is confusing and so did the investigator and I 
agree. Its not clear  what exactly youre agreeing to given the and which Ive 
emphasised above.  It certainly can be read as if both parts  of the sentence need to 
be satisfied. And since this is unclear, then I consider the matter is held in 
Mr and Mrs Fs favour, rather than in the favour  of Red Sands.
Red Sands  changed this in the 2018 schedule by asking simple questions  instead 
and saying if the answer to any of those questions is yes then it must be contacted 
to discuss. So I consider it was always aware its presumption  above was confusing. 
So consequently, I think theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs F failed to disclose their 
dogs medical history given it was Red Sands  who failed to ask them coherent 
questions to elicit this, as the law requires
Ref: DRN78133612So I dont  consider it was fair that Red Sands refused  to pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim, 
based on this.
Theres also no evidence to show cystitis is a precursor to getting  bladder stones. In 
this case, the evidence  shows there wasnt even any sediment in their dogs scans  
for the cystitis. And more importantly, Mr and Mrs Fs vet said he couldnt be sure the 
conditions are linked.  So I dont consider the fact that Mr and Mrs Fs dog suffered 
one incidence of cystitis means it was a pre-existing condition  for bladder stones. 
Red Sands  has proffered no evidence against  this other than its underwriting  criteria 
exclude cover for anything to do with the urinary tract if there has been an instance of 
cystitis. But that doesnt show theres any link, it merely shows Red Sands attitude to 
the risks it wants or doesnt want to insure.
So since  this is a lifetime  policy;  and since I now consider its clear Mr and Mrs F 
didnt fail to disclose anything; and its also clear theres no evidence  of any pre-
existing condition, its not right that any exclusion is imposed on Mr and Mrs Fs 
policy. As once the policy has properly started theres no question  of making any 
further exclusions throughout the rest of the life of the policy so long as its renewed  
every year.
Mr and Mrs F also complained that Red Sands delayed in responding to their vet 
over this claim. They said it should have come back to the vet in about an hour but 
instead it took two days. Theres nothing in this policy  that says Red Sands should 
have done this or that it gives such pre-approval in this way. So I dont think Red 
Sands did anything wrong here.  It does ask to be contacted immediately if the fees 
are likely to be more  than £1,000, which  might  be where the confusion arose. 
Although theres  nothing  to show me, why Red Sands needs this immediate contact 
in this situation.
Both Mr and Mrs F and Red Sands confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs F said they had nothing further to add. Red Sands said it would  be contact with 
us with its further comments but has failed to make any such  contact.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As nothing  further  was received by either  party, I see no reason to depart from the reasoning  
in my provisional decision.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following: 
Remove the exclusion it imposed on this policy.
Pay Mr and Mrs Fs claim in accordance with the remaining terms to include the 
policy limit and the excess.
Ref: DRN78133613Assuming Mr and Mrs F have  already  paid their vet, add interest at 8% simple per 
year on the amount  of the refund  it repays,  from the date Mr and Mrs F paid their vet 
to date of Red Sands  refund.*
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs F 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give them a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7813361