K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms U complain about  a serious  breach of their personal data by Nationwide 
Building Society.
While Mr M and Ms U have brought the complaint to our service jointly,  the account that was 
accessed is held in Mr Ms individual name and hes made  most of the submissions, 
therefore Ill refer to Mr M solely in the decision.
background
In early July 2017  Mr M became aware  that someone had tried to apply for credit in his 
name with company A. As a result  Mr M got in touch with Nationwide  to let them know and 
asked that Nationwide change his account number as a security measure. Nationwide  told 
Mr M that they wouldnt usually change his account number but that they would add a 
security alert to his account  as a precaution.
A couple of weeks prior to this in June 2017  Nationwide had received an application  for a 
third party to be added to Mr Ms current account   which they actioned  in July 2017. This 
third party then accessed Mr Ms online banking and completed three transfers  out of his 
account between  12 July and 15 July 2017  totalling over £2,300. 
Mr M got in touch with Nationwide a few days later to query the fraudulent  activity  on his 
account and because a name had been added  to his account that he didnt recognise.  The 
disputed funds were  recredited to Mr Ms account by Nationwide within  two days,  and the 
third party was removed.
Mr M raised  a complaint with Nationwide saying they didnt follow  their own security  
measures, by allowing  an unknown  third party or fraudster to be added to his account when 
there was a security  alert on the account.  And that he felt Nationwide  shouldve  changed his 
account number  as he requested, as this wouldve prevented the fraudster from gaining 
access to his account. He also asked for full details  of the fraud that happened.
Nationwide initially responded saying theyd  followed the correct steps to validate the 
request to add a third party to the account, but they offered  £50 for not replying to a letter    
Mr M had sent. They also told Mr M that he could  raise  a subject access  request (SAR) to 
get full details of the fraud on his account. 
Mr M submitted a SAR to Nationwide and let them know he didnt agree with their response 
to his complaint.  
Nationwide investigated  further and provided Mr M with the documentation relating to his 
SAR. They  also apologised for the level of service Mr M had received and accepted  that the 
third party shouldnt have  been added to his account. Due to this they increased the 
compensation by a further £350.
Mr M provided a lengthy response to Nationwide, querying some of the information provided 
in the SAR documentation and saying that he didnt feel the £400 compensation was 
adequate in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN78344312Nationwide further  reviewed Mr Ms complaint along with the questions hed raised in relation 
to the SAR documentation and provided their final response in May 2018. In this letter  
Nationwide acknowledged  that they didnt include some documents  with the original SAR 
request to Mr M, and in light of this offered a further  £100 compensation. They  also shared 
what information wouldve  been available to the fraudster  when  they logged  into Mr Ms 
online banking, and what steps would be taken to keep Mr Ms information and money  
secure going forward.
Mr M wasnt happy with Nationwides final response and brought  his complaint  to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns and didnt uphold his complaint. In summary, 
the investigator agreed that Nationwide shouldnt have allowed the fraudulent third party to 
be added  to the account, and that Nationwide shouldve taken more care once alerted by   
Mr M about the attempted  fraud using his personal details. But the investigator said he felt 
the £500 already paid by Nationwide was fair compensation  in recognition  of the trouble and 
upset Mr M had experienced as a result of this.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion saying that Nationwide still hadnt clearly set 
out what information had been  released to the third party and asking for guidance as to what  
he could do to protect himself from further criminal attack. 
Mr M asked  for the answer to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr M that I have carefully  reviewed  everything that he has sent us, 
including his response to the investigators  opinion. 
Its not in dispute  that Nationwide made some errors  here.  Nationwide  accepts that they 
shouldnt have added the unknown third party  to Mr Ms account. Also that due to their 
failure to correctly establish  the identity of the fraudster when they called in June 2017, 
additional account specific information was made  available to the fraudster. And that there  
were documents they didnt provide as part of their original response to Mr Ms subject 
access request (SAR). Nationwide have fully refunded all of the disputed  transactions  that 
were made by the fraudster when they accessed Mr Ms account.
I understand that Mr M has found this particularly distressing and can understand why he 
would be anxious  knowing  that personal  information has been  made  available to a fraudster.
Ref: DRN78344313But our role isnt to punish businesses when they make a mistake. Where something has 
gone wrong, we consider what we feel is fair and reasonable to recognise the upset caused 
by the mistake.  
The disputed transactions were returned to Mr M within  two days,  and I havent  seen  
anything that suggests being  without these funds caused Mr M any issues financially. And 
while I appreciate  that Mr M was caused a degree  of stress and anxiety, in these 
circumstances, I think  the £500  already paid by Nationwide is a fair and reasonable 
response.
Nationwide have let Mr M know which information  the fraudster wouldve been able to view 
once logged into Mr Ms online banking.  And theyve also set out what steps theyve taken to 
secure Mr Ms account to prevent any future fraud. I appreciate that Mr M may want  more  
specific information on what the fraudster specifically clicked  on when they were logged  in, 
but its unlikely  that Nationwide will be able to provide  this level of detail. But Mr M may be 
able to get more advice  about the data breach, and how to protect himself going forward  
from the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO). 
I know Mr M will be disappointed by this outcome, but I think  Nationwide  has taken  
reasonable steps to put things right.  I also think it has offered a fair amount of compensation 
to Mr M, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7834431