K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited  acted irresponsibly when it 
gave her a mortgage  in 2007. Mrs H says it didnt make sure that the mortgage  would be 
affordable for her, either at the time the loan was granted or into the future. This included  
into her retirement. 
Mrs H wants Kensington  to help her now shes retired, unwell and is struggling to make 
mortgage payments  each  month. Shes also worried about how she will repay  the balance  of 
her mortgage when it expires in 2028.
background
In 2007 Mrs H took out a mortgage  with GE Money  Home Lending Limited  having  met with a 
mortgage broker. The broker helped Mrs H make  the mortgage application to GE Money.   
Mrs H borrowed  around £217,000 on a self-certified repayment mortgage to be repaid over 
21 years.  Mrs H was 56 when the mortgage  was sold. It was to be repaid by the time Mrs H 
was 77.
In 2008 Mrs H became  unwell with various  degenerative  health  conditions. She needed to 
take early retirement  from her work  around  2010 due to the serious  nature  of her ill health.
During the term of the mortgage, this loan has been transferred to Kensington. This decision 
refers to Kensington as the mortgage lender, although Im aware  the lender who gave the 
mortgage was GE Money. It is only in recent years that Kensington has become responsible  
for this loan.
Mrs H says shed been in financial difficulties before taking out this mortgage. She had 
hoped that consolidating her debts in 2007 into a new mortgage  would have helped  her 
meet her debt repayments each month.  Instead Mrs H says shes struggled  to pay this 
mortgage for years, especially since her unplanned  early  retirement  in 2010. 
In 2010 Kensington (then GE Money) converted a large proportion of the mortgage from 
capital repayment  to interest only. Theres  still a balance of around  £182,000 to be repaid on 
the mortgage.
In 2018 Mrs H complained to Kensington. Mrs H complained  that the mortgage should never 
have been given to her. Mrs H said shed never have  been able to afford it on her income.  
Kensington gave  its final response on 7 November 2018. It didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Kensington said the mortgage had been  applied for on a self-certified basis  so it wouldnt 
have checked  Mrs Hs income at the time.  It said GE would have had no reason  to question 
the information provided about  Mrs Hs income  on the mortgage application. Kensington 
also said that increases  in the mortgage interest rate may have caused additional pressure 
on Mrs H but the mortgage offer did say there could be increases  to the interest  rate and this 
is what had happened. At the time the final response letter was issued the interest rate 
applied to Mrs Hs mortgage  was 3.54%.
Mrs H was unhappy with Kensingtons response  and brought  her complaint to us. Our 
investigator thought  Kensington hadnt done  enough to check  that this mortgage would be 
affordable to Mrs H into her expected retirement age. 
Ref: DRN75148022Mrs H agreed  with our investigators view but Kensington didnt. 
Since our investigators view, Kensington has made  two offers to Mrs H in recent weeks.  In 
January 2020  Kensington offered to:
-transfer the running of Mrs Hs mortgage  to its specialist  team;
-crystallise the balance of the mortgage  as at January 2020;
-not expect any further monthly payments from Mrs H for the rest of her life, enabling 
Mrs H to remain in the property;
-maintain its charge over the property and only look to recover  the total outstanding 
balance of the mortgage (around  £182,000) from the sale proceeds after Mrs Hs death.
While Kensington  has made the above  offer to help Mrs H in her situation,  it didnt agree that 
it had acted irresponsibly  by giving Mrs H the mortgage. And it wouldnt agree  to our 
investigators proposal to backdate the crystallisation of the mortgage to when Mrs H 
became 65. So, this case has been passed  to me to make  a final decision on the matter. 
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision dated 24 February 2020 that sets out my thoughts on this 
complaint. My provisional decision said:
First, Mrs H is worried about whether she can stay in her home, and I know the outcome of 
this complaint really  matters to her. I can see how difficult things have been for Mrs H in 
recent years. 
I also appreciate, having  listened to Mrs Hs calls with our investigator,  how challenging its 
been for her to bring  her complaint to us. Mrs H has a number of chronic  health  conditions, 
and shes provided  evidence to us and Kensington about this. Im sensitive to how poorly 
Mrs H is and how much shes been through since she became unwell. Im also conscious 
that Mrs H has experienced financial difficulties throughout her illnesses. 
Mrs H complains about Kensingtons  decision  to make a mortgage available  to her in 2007. 
The event complained about  took place more than six years  before Mrs H made her 
complaint. Kensington has given its consent  for us to investigate this complaint now.
Ive looked very closely at the documents completed at the time the mortgage was sold to try 
to build up a picture  of Mrs Hs finances at the time,  and why the remortgage  went  ahead. 
Ive also thought about everything that has happened  since that time, and Mrs Hs current 
dilemma.
A broker was involved  in the sale and the mortgage  paperwork confirms this. I note the 
application records that no advice was given  although  Mrs H recollects that the broker had 
been contacting her. She recalls it was the brokers idea for her to remortgage to consolidate 
her debts. I understand  the mortgage broker is no longer trading. Our investigator has 
explained what Mrs H can do if she chooses  to make a complaint about the broker.
This complaint is brought against Kensington, as Mrs Hs mortgage lender. Mrs H says she 
doesnt believe she should have been  given her the mortgage in the first place as it was 
never going to be affordable for her.
Ref: DRN75148023was it irresponsible  for Kensington (then GE Money) to have given  Mrs H the mortgage in 
the first place?
The documents from the time support Mrs Hs recollection that the remortgage  was taken 
out primarily to consolidate other debts. Mrs H borrowed around £217,000. Part of this 
remortgage repaid  Mrs Hs existing mortgage of around £74,000  with another  lender, and a 
second charge  loan of £105,000.  There  does  seem to be some  further  borrowing of around 
£35,000. It isnt clear from the records at the time or from Mrs H what the additional 
borrowing was for. Mrs H has only said that she was consolidating debts. From the evidence 
currently available to me, Ive assumed this additional borrowing was to refinance other 
forms of debt.
The mortgage application says Mrs Hs existing mortgage repayment was around  £450 per 
month and her second charge loan repayment  was £1,008  per month.  Mrs H has said that 
the purpose of the mortgage  was to consolidate other borrowing and to lower her monthly  
debt payments. Mrs Hs new mortgage  repayment  was around £1,600 when she took out the 
borrowing on a three year interest  rate of 6.84%. 
I havent been able to build up a picture  of all Mrs Hs borrowing before  the mortgage  was 
taken out. Mrs H recalls that no additional  funds were made available  to her at the point she 
took out the Kensington mortgage. Mrs H says shed been  struggling with her debts  and the 
Kensington mortgage was to lower her monthly  repayments. Im satisfied from what Mrs H 
remembers that Kensington refinanced  existing  borrowing and didnt make any new money 
available to Mrs H. 
Mrs Hs employment details are disputed.  The broker recorded that Mrs H ran her own 
recruitment business and had done so for 12 years. The application form said Mrs H had a 
gross monthly income of £5,000 per month  from running her recruitment firm. 
Mrs H says shes never worked in recruitment. She says she worked  as an administrative 
clerk locally and that she earned around  £1,000 per month. Ive not seen evidence that 
shows Mrs H has ever run her own business,  or that shes  worked as an administrative  clerk.   
Mrs Hs retirement  plans  are also unclear from the mortgage application. Mrs H has told us 
that shed planned to retire at 67. However, Kensington gave her a capital  repayment  
mortgage that was to run until she was 77. 
There are two sections on the mortgage  application  form that were designed to explore Mrs Hs 
retirement plans. One question asked Mrs H to indicate her expected retirement date.  The 
question has been answered simply no plans. And in Section 7a) of the lenders application 
form, more information  is required  if the lending extends into the applicants  declared retirement 
age or they reach 65, whichever is lesser. The form asks the applicant  to please provide full 
details of how you propose to maintain payment after retirement,  or any other intended  
arrangements. This section of the form has been  left blank.
Having looked  at all the evidence presented to me, I have concerns about Kensingtons 
decision to offer Mrs H a mortgage of £217,000 over 22 years.  Mrs Hs mortgage application 
was self-certified, which means Mrs H didnt need  to give proof of her income  to Kensington. 
I accept that this is very different  to the income checks that any lender would be required to 
do today under current regulation. However,  there was still a duty at the time for Kensington 
to take account  of a customers ability to repay a mortgage. 
Ref: DRN75148024Ive looked at the mortgage regulation at the time the mortgage offer was made, on 25 April 
2007, known as the Mortgages: Code of Business (or MCOB).
On 6 April 2007,  new rules were published which apply  to Kensingtons mortgage offered to 
Mrs H. 
In the rules,  MCOB 11.3.1 says:
a firm must be able to show  that before deciding to enter into, or making a further  advance  
on, a regulated mortgage contract, or, home  purchase plan, account was taken  of the 
customers ability to repay.
There is also a specific rule about  self-certified mortgages. MCOB 11.3.2 says:
In taking  account  of a customers ability to repay, a firm may rely on self-certification of 
income by the customer in circumstances where  the firm considers it to be appropriate,  
having regard  to the interests of the customer, and where the firm has no reasonable 
grounds for doubting  the information provided.
Kensington was also required to have  regard to its responsibilities to its customers, and in 
particular guard against any action  contrary to Principle 6 (and in breach of MCOB 11.3.1  
and 11.3.2).
Weve asked for evidence  that shows that Kensington took account of Mrs Hs ability  to 
repay the mortgage over the 22 year term of the capital  repayment mortgage. Im not 
persuaded that Kensington  has given us proof of that. And, I consider that under MCOB 
11.3.2 there was sufficient  grounds  for Kensington to have doubted the income information 
provided. It isnt clear to me how Kensington satisfied itself that Mrs H would  be able to 
afford the mortgage  until she was 77. It hadnt explored the viability of her running  a 
recruitment business to this age or her planned retirement age. And it didnt know  what  
pension arrangements she had, or other  potential  future sources of income to make the 
mortgage affordable.   
I consider that Kensington had a duty, under regulation  at the time, to explore how affordable  
this mortgage  would  have been  for Mrs H. And I think this duty to take account of an ability 
to repay  extends  over the entire term, and not just at the start of the mortgage.  
The relevant  sections of the mortgage application  exploring affordability into retirement  
hadnt been completed. I struggle to see why these  questions  were requested on the form if 
the lender would pay no regard as to whether they were  answered. Overall, I dont think  
Kensington did enough to satisfy itself that Mrs H could  clearly afford this mortgage until she 
was 77. If Kensington had asked for more information at the time, it may have found that Mrs 
H wasnt self employed,  and didnt earn the figure stated on the application form.
do I think Mrs H has lost out as a result of the remortgage?
Ive set out why I think Kensington  didnt  do enough  to check  Mrs H would be able to repay  
this mortgage  throughout  the loan term. In any event, the mortgage went  ahead. 
So, Ive also thought carefully about Mrs Hs position before the mortgage was taken out and 
what might  have happened but for Kensingtons decision to make  this loan available  to her. 
Ref: DRN75148025Ive tried to establish whether Mrs H is now worse off as a result of Kensingtons decision to 
give her this mortgage. 
When Mrs H took out the mortgage it was on a capital repayment basis, and was on an 
interest rate of 6.84%  for three years. I can see Mrs Hs mortgage has been mostly on an 
interest only basis in recent  years  since she needed to retire  early due to ill health.  The 
interest rate thats been applied to the mortgage has been around 3.5%.
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  by Mrs Hs recollection that the remortgage  consolidated existing 
debts already held elsewhere. I also think it was highly likely  that the new mortgage was 
cheaper each month than Mrs Hs previous loan arrangements. That was the primary 
purpose of Mrs Hs remortgage in the first place.  
I think its unlikely that Mrs Hs previous mortgage and her secured loan would have been on 
lower interest rates than shes managed to get through her Kensington mortgage.  Especially 
in the years since Mrs Hs mortgage has reverted back to tracking base rate since  her three 
year product  expired. From my wider knowledge of the mortgage  market, I also doubt  a 
second charge  lender would have  agreed  to Mrs H switching her loan onto an interest only 
basis following her early  retirement due to ill health.  In fact, it may be that if Mrs H hadnt 
refinanced her borrowing onto this mortgage,  she could have found shed lost her property 
by now to repay her other secured borrowing. 
Overall Im not persuaded  that Mrs H has been financially worse off as a result  of refinancing 
previous high cost,  secured borrowing onto this Kensington mortgage. However, Mrs H finds  
herself in a very difficult position now and theres  clearly a need  for Kensington to help her 
going forward.
what do I think should happen now to put things right?
Kensington has recently offered to crystallise the amount of Mrs Hs mortgage, and not to 
ask for any further payments of interest within her lifetime. Its said it wants  to keep its 
charge on the property  but will only expect  the mortgage to be repaid when Mrs H no longer 
needs her home. 
Having taken into account the specific circumstances of Mrs Hs situation, I think  this offer 
seems reasonable  to help Mrs H manage  her financial  situation going forward and it 
supports her remaining in her property thats been specially adapted for her.
Our investigators view was that Kensington should backdate the point at which  it stopped 
charging interest to when  Mrs H turned 65. Kensington  disagreed  with this. Ive carefully 
considered whether I think this would be fair to both parties in the specific  circumstances of 
this complaint. Im mindful that Mrs H never intended to retire  at 65. Shes  told us she 
planned to retire at around 67. It is only due to ill health that she retired  earlier.  Mrs H is now 
around the age she would have  been  if she had stopped  working at her planned retirement  
date. So my provisional finding is that it is reasonable that the mortgage is crystallised from 
January 2020,  and that this isnt backdated.
Ref: DRN75148026I consider this offer to be fair to put things right going forward. However, I do think  Kensington 
could have done more and sooner to help Mrs H with her ongoing financial difficulties. Shes  
only received this offer by making  her complaint and continuing to pursue it through our 
service. Kensington  isnt responsible for the difficulties Mrs H has experienced through  her ill 
health. But I think it should have done  more and sooner to help Mrs H in her financial 
difficulties. I think its fair that Kensington pay Mrs H £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mrs H and Kensington have accepted my provisional decision. 
Kensington replied  to say it will refund two fees of £40 applied in 2010/11  and £30 charged 
for a default notice  in 2011.  It will also adjust interest that has been  applied to these fees. 
Kensington will crystallise the balance of the mortgage as at 1 January 2020 and no further 
interest will be added to the mortgage balance  from this date.  It has agreed to pay Mrs H the 
£500 compensation that I thought was appropriate.
findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties have accepted my 
provisional findings and so I see no reason to depart  from them here. This final decision 
confirms my provisional findings  and the steps I set out to resolve  the matter.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited and direct it to do the 
following to settle  the matter:
-Crystallise Mrs Hs mortgage  as at 1 January  2020, and apply no further charges or 
interest to the mortgage from that date;
-Refund all charges and fees,  and interest applied on these fees, applied to the mortgage 
from the date at which Mrs H became seriously  unwell in 2010;
-Retain a charge over the property  and only seek repayment of the loan once Mrs H no 
longer needs the property;
-Pay Mrs H £500 for the trouble and upset caused by its actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7514802