K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited  (HBOS) showed  a lack of 
flexibility and used  outdated processes in relation to a withdrawal she was making from her 
investment. 
background
On 27 September  2018 Mrs E contacted HBOS by phone as she wanted to make an 
£11,000 withdrawal  from her ISA. HBOS  explained  that theyd need to verify her identity 
prior to making the withdrawal. They attempted to do so electronically, but when this didnt 
prove possible, they said Mrs E would need to send them further documents.
It was agreed that a certified copy of Mrs Es passport and driving licence would be 
sufficient. Mrs E asked if she could email the documents as she was in Spain at the time. 
HBOS insisted that they would need paper copies. Mrs E posted the documents  via 
recorded delivery which HBOS received on 8 October 2018. They  processed  her instructions 
for the withdrawal the same day. 
Being unhappy with the service shed  received,  Mrs E complained. She says other  providers 
dont have the same requirements. She also pointed  out shed incurred costs  in getting her 
documents certified and having  to post them. HBOS responded to the complaint but didnt 
think theyd done  anything wrong. So Mrs E referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt think it should  be upheld. She concluded HBOS had 
obligations to meet in terms of keeping their customers accounts secure and it was a 
decision for them as to which processes they chose  to ensure this happens.  So she didnt 
recommend that they needed  to take further action. 
As she still disagrees, Mrs E has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. Let me explain why.
HBOS has various legal and regulatory  responsibilities in managing  their customers  money. 
These include complying with rules and regulations  covering the prevention  of money  
laundering and making  sure they pay money to the correct person. Within  reason, it is for 
HBOS to decide their own procedures to ensure they comply  with the rules and regulations. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt the industry regulator and its not my role to 
comment on how they decide to do that. My role is to instead consider the circumstances of 
Mrs Es complaint and decide whether or not I think shes been treated fairly.  
HBOS did make efforts to electronically  verify Mrs Es identity over the phone. Its only when 
this didnt prove possible that they had to move to other options. They have also explained 
that had Mrs E been in the UK at the time,  she would have been able to verify her 
documents in a branch  without incurring costs. 
Ref: DRN78619752I understand part of Mrs Es complaint  is that HBOS wouldnt accept emailed documents and 
that they needed paper copies. She considers this to be an outdated process.  As Ive said 
above, its a decision  for HBOS as to which processes they put in place to ensure they meet 
their regulatory and legal responsibilities.
Further, Im satisfied HBOS actions were consistent with the investment terms and 
conditions which explain that they may ask for proof  of identity and not follow  instructions 
until this has been received to their satisfaction.  
Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing  for Mrs E, taking  everything  into consideration, I 
dont think HBOS have  treated  her unfairly. So Im not directing that they need  to take any 
action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861975