K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that Susan Fleck Associates Limited (SFA) provided incorrect pension 
projections for her occupational pension scheme (OPS). She says these significantly 
overstated what income she would receive from her OPS in future. She says this has 
severely compromised her future retirement  and benefits. She would like SFA to make up 
the difference between her actual benefits and the benefits it projected she would have.  
   
background 
In 2017 Miss T was considering transferring  her pension benefits from her OPS to a 
personal pension.  To establish whether this was worthwhile, a report was obtained from 
SFA. In May 2017 SFA issued a report. This report contained incorrect figures for income 
and tax free cash from her OPS. The figures were not corrected until 2018. Miss T then 
complained to SFA.   
SFA responded to Miss Ts complaint. It recognised  it had made  a mistake when projecting 
benefits from the OPS  in May 2017. It offered Miss T a £50 voucher in recognition.  
Miss T did not accept  that offer and referred  her complaint to this service. An adjudicator  
considered the complaint.
The adjudicator noted that an error  had been made in the May 2017 report  which  had the 
effect of significantly  overstating  the likely OPS retirement benefits. However she could not 
recommend that SFA make up the benefits to that first projected by SFA because  Miss T 
had not at any point been entitled to those  benefits.  
Furthermore if Miss T had been  given the correct projections then she believed  the likely 
outcome would have  been the same. That is that Miss T would not have transferred the OPS 
because the recommendation would have been not to transfer. That was because the 
returns needed to match the OPS benefits  given up would have been too high. However  she 
did recognise that it would have been  disappointing for Miss T to learn that her benefits 
would not be as she thought. She recommended that SFA pay Miss T £200 for the 
disappointment caused.  
Miss T did not agree.  She said that the figures  supplied by SFA were  totally misleading and 
changed her future plans.  This has resulted in severe distress.  Miss T says that before she 
got the pension report she intended  to withdraw 25% of her pension  with the OPS because 
she was suffering financial hardship. She would have invested the rest in a personal pension 
because this would be passed onto her son after her death. This would have given her more  
flexibility and she could  add funds to the personal pension. The figures supplied by SFA 
caused her to re-assess her decisions. She was hoping  to survive financially until 2020 when 
the benefits were  due (from the OPS).  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not disputed  that SFA provided  incorrect  figures  about the potential  benefits for the OPS 
in May 2017.  The material  issue is then what effect  that had.
Ref: DRN70367162Firstly, the information  SFA provided did not alter what benefits Miss T would receive from 
her OPS.  Miss T is entitled to what benefits  her OPS will provide, not what  SFA projected in 
error. 
However Miss T has said that the figures  altered her decision as to what to do with her 
pension. She has said that her intention before the figures were provide  was to transfer her 
OPS to a personal  pension and take 25% tax free cash. 
After Miss T received SFAs figures and report she decided not to transfer. She says this 
was because she hoped to manage  financially until she received the OPS  benefits. SFA 
recommended in its report that Miss T not transfer  because of the very high growth rates  
required (around 50%) from a new plan to match the benefits  given  up from the OPS. This 
was combined with the valuable guarantees being  given up if transferring from the OPS. 
If SFA had provided the correct figures then the required growth  rate for the new pension  to 
match benefits from the OPS would have  still been far in excess  of any reasonable assumed 
growth rate from a new plan. As SFA has confirmed, it would therefore still not have 
recommend the transfer. Given the situation I would expect that would  be its decision. 
Furthermore SFA has confirmed that it would not have  undertaken the transfer in that 
situation. Effectively Miss T would have had to find another business willing  to undertake  the 
transfer.
The incorrect figures did not affect any of the information SFA gave about the nature of the 
guarantees given  up through transferring the OPS benefits. That remained true whatever the 
income and tax free cash figures  provided. It was only the figures  projected from the OPS  
that were incorrect.   
Given these factors I do not believe on balance that it is likely that Miss T would have 
transferred. As discussed, SFA would not have  recommended  the transfer  based  on the 
correct figures and the transfer would not have been advisable  based on the growth rates  
required and the guarantees  given up. If death  benefits for Miss Ts son were very important  
or of overriding  importance then the decision to transfer could still have  been  made,  
regardless of the issues of the benefits given up. But the OPS benefits  were not transferred. 
I do not believe that it is likely that a different decision  would have been made if the figures 
provided had been  correct.   
Miss T in a later submission said that SFA did not advise her that a personal pension would 
ensure funds were  passed onto her son. As Miss T said that one of the issues  under 
discussion before  she received  the report from SFA was the ability for a personal  pension to 
pass funds to her son, it does seem that Miss T was aware  of this factor at the time. In 
addition, in the SFA report it is set out:
The new  plan will offer a full return of the fund value on death. Changes came  in, in 
April 2015 which mean that when an individual  under the age of 75 dies they will be able to 
give their pension pot to any beneficiary tax free, including if the pension  is already in 
drawdown. There will be no tax when the pension is passed on, and the beneficiary will not 
have to pay income tax on the money they withdraw from the pension.
Those aged 75 and over who haven't yet started  their pension, or are taking a drawdown 
pension will be able to pass on their remaining defined contribution  pension  to any 
beneficiary who will then be able to take it as a drawdown pension (subject to policy terms) 
at their marginal rate of income tax.
Ref: DRN70367163Although the new rules  come into force in April 2015, beneficiaries of anyone  who dies 
before that date can still benefit so long as payment is delayed  until after that point.
So the evidence  is that Miss T was aware of and took into account the death benefits 
available under a personal pension.
In terms of making further contributions  to a pension scheme, Miss T could still have done 
that whether remaining  in her OPS or not. She could have made additional pension provision 
whilst remaining in her OPS. So I do not believe that a likely determining  factor  in the 
decision to transfer  or not. 
Overall I do not believe it more likely that Miss T would have transferred had the correct 
figures been supplied. So I do not uphold the complaint  on that basis.  
Assuming that Miss T still has her OPS benefits  (the normal  benefit date of 2020  has not 
been reached yet) then it is worth mentioning that she still would likely have the option  to 
consider transferring now. Miss T may wish to consider that.
I do believe that Miss T would have  been distressed and inconvenienced by later learning  
that the figures were incorrect. The figures  supplied  were substantially higher  than they 
should have been and it would have been  extremely disappointing for Miss T to find out that 
she wouldnt  likely be receiving the benefits she expected. I believe Miss T should receive a 
payment for this. I have taken into account the period of about  a year between  the incorrect 
report and when the correct figures were provided  (when Miss T knew  of the correct 
situation).  
I believe a fair amount  would be £300.  I realise that this Miss T will likely view this as 
insufficient but awards of this type are modest and this award is in line with the awards this 
service would make in this situation.  
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  insofar as SFA's provision  of the incorrect  figures  would have caused  
Miss T distress and upset.  I order Susan  Fleck Associates Limited  to Pay Miss T £300 
should she accept  this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7036716