K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Home and Travel Limited,  an insurance broker,  mis-sold her contents  
insurance policy for at least three years as it didnt cover all of her professional equipment.  
background
Miss M said when she took out her policy in November 2013 she answered questions  about 
her business  activities  at home. She said she told Home and Travel she has two roles,  one 
of which  involved a home studio with professional equipment.  She said she was careful  that 
this was covered.  She said she asked at each  renewal  that she held the same  cover,  
particularly when her broker  recommended  another  insurer.
 
Miss M said on her latest renewal Home and Travel  said her equipment wasnt covered by 
her current  or previous policies. She said this meant  shed wasted about £1,000 of premiums  
and been put at risk of committing insurance fraud.  Miss M said she was sure her equipment  
would have been listed as this was the main reason for the policy.  She said call recordings 
would evidence this but her information hadnt  been  released by Home and Travel.  She said 
Home and Travel had pushed her towards our service rather than deal with her concerns.
 
Home and Travel said the policy wasnt mis-sold. It said Miss M was asked,  Is the property 
used for business  purpose? to which she replied  Yes,  but then said she only worked  from 
home in a clerical  role, and so the answer about risks was noted  as No. It said she made no 
mention of another role, or that she required cover for any equipment,  and so her policy  only 
gave her cover up to £1,000 for personal  possessions. Home and Travel said the policy  
excludes equipment used  for business and this cover wasnt available  from the underwriters.
Home and Travel said it sent Miss M policy documents  at inception and before each renewal 
and no changes were  requested.  It said when the policy  renewed  in 2015 and 2017 Miss M 
called but made no changes  and didnt mention her other role or her equipment. It said 
Miss M only recently  mentioned her other role and said that she required  cover for her 
equipment. It said had it known it would have  told her that her policy  doesnt cover  her 
equipment.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld  saying  Miss M was asked if her 
home is used for business and she said she worked on a laptop, but didn't mention her other  
role or professional  equipment.  The investigator  said when he spoke to Miss M she said she 
hadnt been making money from her other role then,  and so he thought it may not have been  
a consideration  at the time. He said Home and Travel could only provide a policy on what it 
was told and it wasnt fair to expect  it to cover professional equipment it didnt  know about.
The investigator said all relevant documents were sent at the start and at each  renewal of 
Miss Ms policy.  He said the statement of fact outlines the answers  she had given and said 
she should make contact if anything had changed. He said Miss M was incorrect  to say 
cover for her professional equipment was removed when the policy  underwriter changed, as 
this cover had never been provided. He said the policy covered Miss Ms other  possessions  
so it was needed and a policy covering her professional equipment wouldve cost her more. 
Miss M disagreed saying  at the very least Home and Travel  said her equipment wasnt 
covered for the last three years due to a policy change. She said the investigator shouldve  
focussed on the mis-selling of her policy  as it wouldnt  have covered valuable items used for 
professional or personal purposes. Miss M requested an ombudsman  review her complaint.
Ref: DRN77933662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M said she thought  her professional equipment  was covered from when she took out 
her contents  policy  in 2013,  and when she discovered otherwise she thought  her policy  had 
been mis-sold. Home  and Travel disagreed, saying when Miss Ms policy started  she said 
she did clerical work,  but didnt mention  she had another role, or that she required any 
professional equipment to be covered.
I sympathise with Miss M in discovering  that her insurance policy would not have covered 
her equipment, though Im pleased she hasnt  had to make  a claim. The policies that were 
provided to her didnt  match her needs and our role is to determine if this was because  they 
were mis-sold, or because she didnt provide information needed to obtain the correct cover. 
In order to do this I have carefully  considered  what the parties  have said,  the records  of the 
communications between  them and the details of the policies themselves.
From the records provided  I cant see that Miss M mentioned anything  about her 
professional equipment when the policy started or on each renewal. Home and Travel gave 
Miss M the opportunity to tell it about her other role during  the initial sales  call and she was 
invited to update her circumstances at each renewal.  It was not until 2018 that Miss M 
mentioned her professional equipment and learnt that it wasnt  covered. Home and Travel  
did clarify with Miss M that her equipment was covered for personal use. 
The policy documents dont show any changes to her cover for professional equipment  even 
though the underwriter for the policy changes.  From  what I have seen, I don't think  it's 
reasonable to expect  Home and Travel to know that Miss M used this equipment for 
business purposes and it follows that it wouldnt be fair to require Home and Travel to refund 
Miss Ms premiums for the cover  that she has had.
I was sorry to learn how upset Miss M found  listening  to her calls with Home and Travel,  but 
I dont think shes correct  to say her case raises  a serious issue  for home workers in her 
circumstances. It raises  the importance of accurately describing the cover that is required 
and monitoring this periodically. I agree with the investigator that Miss M needed contents 
insurance and so was unlikely  to have done  anything different in covering her other  contents. 
I havent found that Home and Travel used  our service as a cover for its shoddy work as 
Miss M suggests. I havent found  anything to show that Home  and Travel has treated Miss M 
unfairly in the arrangement or handling  of her policies, or that it has provided  her with poor 
service and so I cant uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final response that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Ref: DRN77933663Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7793366