K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) wont  pay them an 
incentive of £100 for switching their account  to them.
background
Mr and Mrs L came to us as they were unhappy with Nationwides  refusal  to uphold their 
complaint about  an incentive payment. Nationwide told Mr and Mr L they didnt think theyd 
made an error. They said in order to be eligible  for the recommend a friend  promotion  
incentive of £100, there  must  be a full account  switch. That meant, amongst other things, 
that the account switched from must  be closed.  And that eligibility  was explained  on their 
website and also within the terms and conditions of the promotion. Nationwide also said their 
website also provides clarification about  what is involved in a full and partial switch, before 
the process has begun. Nationwide told Mr and Mrs L it was their responsibility to ensure 
theyd read and understood the criteria  of the promotion. And they didnt prompt  this 
requirement at each stage, as the promotion  wasnt  linked to the application and is applied 
for separately.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found the link that Mr and Mrs L would have  
followed at the start of the process of switching the account was quite clear in stating a full 
switch must be done. And this link also provided  links to the account switch service  for more 
information and the terms and conditions   which clearly state the old account  must be 
closed. So he thought Nationwide had done enough to point out that a full account  switch 
must be completed in order to meet the terms and conditions. And they hadnt acted unfairly 
in not paying Mr and Mrs L the £100 for switching their account  under the referral  scheme.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree that was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
They thought Nationwide  should be very clear at the time that they allow  you to leave the 
existing bank account open  that by choosing this option you will not be eligible for the 
switching offer. They said this should be upfront, not hidden  away in hyperlinks and terms 
and conditions, with an explanation that by ticking this box you will not be eligible. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs L opened the joint account  with Nationwide on 17 July 2018 they only 
completed a partial  switch . They left their previous current account open in case  there were 
any problems with the switch. Whilst I understand they were being cautious, to qualify for the 
incentive payment  of £100 there needs to be a full switch and that requires  the existing 
account being switched from to be closed.  
Mr and Mrs L said that at no point when progressing through the process were they given a 
warning the originating account must be closed but they accept  - having done  some digging  
afterwards - theres a place on the website that does state this. And they think using 
terminology such as full switch  wasnt sufficient  as they thought  this was technical banking  
language and not plain English meaning they had to search for additional information to be 
clear on what  full switch actually means.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs L have said but I disagree with them.  From everything Ive 
seen Im satisfied Nationwide did enough  make  them aware of the terms and conditions to 
Ref: DRN72689952qualify for the incentive. The link Mr and Mrs L would have followed to start the process of 
switching their account is quite clear  in stating a full account switch must be completed.  It 
also provides links to the account switch service for more information  and the terms and 
conditions of the incentive. Those terms are concise  and clear that the old account must be 
closed. Its for Mr and Mrs L to ensure theyve read and understand the terms and conditions 
of the offer.  And if they were unclear on any of the terminology  or language used to get that 
explained to them by Nationwide. 
So for the reasons Ive given I dont  think Nationwide have done anything wrong here and I 
dont require them to take any further  action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268995