K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 with a 
£12,000 secured  loan.  Mr L says Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations  and exclusions of cover) 
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case and said they didnt think we 
should the complaint. Mr Ls representative disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion   they 
didnt raise any new or additional  points but repeated  the same  complaint points and 
arguments theyd  previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved  informally,  it has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below
 
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been  sent a copy  of his original application  form 
and the loan agreement.  I note that on the application form, there  were  two prominent 
choices about  either  having  or not having   PPI with the loan.  He selected the yes option 
by signing his name in that box, and he left the no option blank. He also signed  the 
application at the bottom.  
I also see that on his credit agreement, the PPI yes box was selected and the monthly  
premium of £10.12  was shown. So I think theres  strong evidence that he chose the policy 
because it was something he wanted to have at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L as part of an advised  sale,  so it had to check that the 
PPI was suitable for him. The evidence about  Mr Ls circumstances  at the time, shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. For example, Mr L was eligible 
for the cover and although he already had some  sick pay with his job, the PPI policy  would 
have paid his loan repayments  in respect  of disability for up to 60 months, and for 12 months 
Ref: DRN79793392in the event of unemployment. This would  have been in addition to any other means  he had 
in place. 
There was nothing about Mr Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although his representative mentioned a previous injury  hed had, 
this was said to have occurred in 1965, some 35 years before the policy was sold to him. Im 
afraid I dont consider this to be relevant. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover 
for mental  health  or back problems.
So, I think the policy was of use and the loan was both long-term and secured against his 
home; the consequences  of him being  unable to meet the repayments could have been 
serious. I therefore dont  think  it being  recommended to him was unreasonable  and the 
policy was suitable  for him, in my view.  
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave  Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But Ive found  that he chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. It wasnt  fundamentally wrong for Mr L as Ive said above,  or too dissimilar  to 
what he reasonably  would  have thought he was buying, from the information he was most 
likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems to me like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr L would have 
declined the cover, even if had Halifax done  more  to explain things.
While the policy contained certain limitations  and exclusions on claims relating to back  and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. So I 
think he would have  still thought he had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy provided a 
useful benefit  in the event  of something  unexpected  happening, given his circumstances. I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought  he was getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Halifax should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. 
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Ref: DRN79793393Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7979339