K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (LBGI) has unfairly 
declined a claim they made on their buildings insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs N noticed the sort of damage caused by a water leak or damp in their kitchen. 
They contacted LBGI and it agreed to look at their claim. 
LGBI said the photos it received showed  mould etc above the kitchen cabinets,  and damage 
to the cabinets  themselves. It says the damage  should have been noticeable, and has built 
up over a period  of time.  LGBI said Mr and Mrs Ns insurance didnt cover damage  that built 
up gradually.
Mr and Mrs N explained that theyd had a leak near their shower repaired by another  insurer, 
(insurer A) as they had home emergency  cover  with them. And, from what  I can see, theyd 
also had a pipe that dripped  into the shower  tray repaired. Thinking their shower was now 
leak free theyd continued to use it, and some time later it dropped.  Mr and Mrs N say they 
didnt notice any build up of damage  and the black mould appeared in the space of a week.
LGBI said it thought  Mr and Mrs N had continued  to use the shower even when they should  
have realised it was leaking and they hadnt done  enough to prevent  the damage.
Mr and Mrs N brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator explained that if the 
original repairs to the shower hadnt  been  done properly by insurer A then Mr and Mrs N 
could make a complaint  to insurer A about this. But he agreed  the damage  in the kitchen 
looked like it had been building up for some time, and didnt think LGBI had been unfair.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first that we did ask Mr and Mrs N to send us some  more  information about 
what had happened   and what repairs (if any) were done,  and when. I dont know if any 
new information might  have changed the outcome of this decision,  but despite  being sent a 
reminder we havent  heard from Mr and Mrs N. I dont think its fair to keep a complaint open 
indefinitely, so Ive had to reach this decision using the information I do have. 
For Mr and Mrs N to make a successful claim,  they need to show  LGBI that one of the 
insured events in their policy had occurred, and that the damage they are claiming for is a 
result of this. In this complaint, there doesnt seem  to be any dispute about the fact that a 
water leak occurred  and this is one of the events  listed in Mr and Mrs Ns policy.
LGBI can then say it need not meet the claim if an exemption applies.  An exemption will be 
listed in the policy.   Here LGBI are saying  that they need not pay for damage  thats  built up 
gradually. Its for LGBI to show that it can rely on this exemption.
Ref: DRN79913182LGBI sent an assessor out to look at the damage. Thats common practise,  and I think its 
fair for LGBI  to rely on the opinion of the assessor that looked at the damage when deciding  
whether it should  meet  this claim.
The assessor sent in some photos of what looks like black  mould on the walls above the 
kitchen cabinets,  and water damage  to a cabinet  pelmet. He said he thought  the damage 
would be visible, and that Mr and Mrs N should have noticed it before they did. He also said 
it was the type of damage that built up over time. LGBI also said it believed  Mr and Mrs N 
continued to use the shower, even though the leak was ongoing  so they hadnt taken the 
necessary steps  to limit the damage.
LGBI also had some conversations with Mr and Mrs N. Its internal records say that Mr and 
Mrs N explained theyd  contacted insurer A (under their home emergency cover) some  time 
in early October 2018 because theyd noticed leaks  running down the kitchen cabinets.  They  
thought this must be from the shower above.  I dont know what insurer  A did to put things  
right, but LGBIs note goes on to say Mr N had got someone else out to look at the shower  a 
little while  later  and this person fixed a leaking pipe. On November 11 Mrs N realised water 
was flooding down  the walls of the kitchen  when the shower was being used  and insurer 
A came out again. This time Mr and Mrs N were told the floor in the bathroom was giving 
way  but didnt identify  the cause of the leak. Mr and Mrs N say it was only when the 
cladding in the shower was removed that they found that a (hidden) leaking pipe had caused 
the trouble. 
Mr and Mrs N says theyve had the bathroom  fully repaired  but are left with a damaged 
kitchen, which they want LGBI  to pay for. They  say its become clear  the problem was a 
leaky pipe hidden behind  the shower  wall, that none of the earlier  plumbers/insurers  
identified. They say they might have noticed  the damage earlier  if theyd not had a 
suspended ceiling.
Its seems there was an ongoing  problem  maybe  more than one  with the shower, which 
doesnt seem to have  been fixed by insurer A. But I cant comment on that, because  this 
complaint isnt about what insurer  A did  its about whether LGBI can fairly say it wont meet 
Mr and Mrs Ns claim.  
This service generally thinks  that damage that builds up gradually,  but goes unnoticed, 
should be covered  where a customer has accidental building  cover  and Mr and Mrs N 
have this. So I need to consider whether the damage went  unnoticed before Mr and Mrs N 
contacted LGBI in November 2018.  I dont think that can be the case   in early October Mr 
and Mrs N knew water was getting into the kitchen  because  thats why they called insurer 
A. And they must have  thought the problem was ongoing because  they said they got 
someone else out to look at the shower between then and mid November,  when they 
discovered the full extent  of the damage. Mr and Mrs N also said they might have noticed 
the damage earlier if they didnt have a suspended ceiling. Im not persuaded that made  
much difference, given  their description of running water on the walls   which  they clearly  
saw  and the damaged cabinets. Neither of those  things would be affected  by a slightly  
lower ceiling, even  if there  was more damage above this that went unseen.
Ive already said Mr and Mrs N havent  responded to our request for more  information. 
Based on what I do have, I cant say LGBI unfairly  refused to meet this claim.
Ref: DRN79913183my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7991318