K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  voided  her home 
insurance policy after she made a claim for fire damage.
Background
Mrs C had a home insurance policy with Liverpool Victoria  (LV) which  covered damage  to a 
property she owns.
In March 2018, she made a claim  for almost £160,000 - after fire damaged the property. 
After looking into it, LV told Mrs C they were  voiding the policy and so wouldnt consider the 
claim.
LV said Mrs C had made a misrepresentation when she bought the policy.  In summary, 
shed said the house was in good  repair and was occupied.  When  looking into the claim,  
theyd found the property  was being  extensively  renovated and wasnt occupied.
Mrs C made  a complaint  to LV. They maintained  their decision to void the policy  was 
justified, so Mrs C brought  her complaint  to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt  think  
LV had done anything wrong.
Mrs C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision, I have to take into account the relevant legislation  in particular, the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012(CIDRA).
CIDRA says that if a consumer provides inaccurate information when buying or renewing  a 
policy, the insurer will be able to take certain actions  if that misrepresentation was either:  
(a) deliberate or reckless;  or (b) careless.
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  the insurer can void the policy and 
refuse all claims  and need not return the premiums, unless it would be unfair  to the 
consumer to retain them.
Ref: DRN71428192If the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can do the following: 
If they wouldnt have  provided the insurance on any terms, they may void the policy 
and refuse all claims, but they must return the premiums. If the insurer  would still 
have provided  the insurance but on different terms (other  than terms relating to the 
premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those  terms if the 
insurer so requires;  and
If the insurer would still have provided  the insurance but charged a higher premium, 
they may reduce proportionately the amount  to be paid on a claim where the 
misrepresentation was discovered  as a result  of a claim.
This is reflected in Mrs Cs policy document,  which  says (page 30, paragraph 3):
If you or anyone representing  you.provides  us with misleading or incorrect  
information to any of the questions asked when applying for, amending or renewing 
this insurance. we may. cancel or void your policy (treat it as if it never 
existed)
Mrs C bought her policy on-line. LV have  provided screenshots  showing what she was 
asked and what her answers  were.
To summarise, Mrs C said shed lived in the house  for zero years and shed lived at her 
previous address for 4 years. She said the property to be insured was her main home. And 
when asked Who  lives there?, she answered, Me (and my family), all of the time.
Its clear to me Mrs C was saying that her family were living at the insured address. I cant  
interpret her answers to those questions in any other way.
When shed completed  the questions, Mrs C was asked to confirm  a summary of her 
answers. This said:
About your home change
[the property to be insured]
.
Is in good condition
.
You've lived there 0 years
You lived at your previous address for 4 years
.
Is your main home which  is used for domestic  purposes only (including  office  at 
home)
Isn't left empty (apart from, for example, when you're on holiday or at work)
.
I confirm that the above information,  assumptions  and details I have provided 
are correct. I understand that if any are incorrect my insurance may be 
cancelled, or treated  as if it never existed, or any claim I make  may be 
rejected or not fully paid.
Ref: DRN71428193After Mrs C completed her application,  LV sent her policy  documents,  including  a policy  
schedule. This confirmed the summary  information  above and also said:
Please  check the details and let us know it anything is incorrect or has changed as 
soon as possible It's important because if you don't we may cancel your insurance, or 
treat it as if it never  existed, or your claim may be rejected or not fully paid.
I dont think its in dispute that Mrs C and her family  were not in fact living  in the property at 
any time between buying  it and the date of the fire which led to the claim.
The property was being extensively  renovated. The floorboards and lath and plaster were 
removed. The property  had no utilities  connected. This would suggest that it wasnt in a good  
condition when it was bought. And that the family werent living there.
Both Mrs C and her husband  confirmed  they werent  living  there to investigators appointed  
by LV. And they retained the property  Mrs C described in her application as her previous 
address. Also, the policy  Mrs C took out with LV covered buildings but not contents.
So, Im satisfied Mrs C provided inaccurate  information when  she made her application for 
the policy. But as I explained above, CIDRA  only allows  LV to void the policy  if the 
misrepresentation Mrs C made  was careless  or reckless / deliberate.
LV havent  said so directly to Mrs C, as far as I can see, but the fact they repaid her 
premiums suggests to me that theyre  treating the misrepresentation  as careless.  And if that 
were the case,  they are entitled to void the policy if they wouldnt have offered cover if theyd 
known the truth.
So, the questions  for me in making this decision now are: 
(a) was Mrs Cs misrepresentation careless  - and, if so 
(b) would  LV have  offered cover  if theyd known the truth?
Im satisfied Mrs Cs misrepresentation  was at the very least  careless. The questions she 
was asked arent difficult to understand. And theyre not asking for information Mrs C 
wouldnt know.
On the balance of probabilities, I also have to conclude  that Mrs C would  or should   have 
known why she was being asked whether the property was being  lived in. She cant  have 
thought that those questions were asked out of general interest. And she would  or should 
 have known  that whether the house was lived in would affect the cover offered through the 
comparison website she was using.  
If she was in any doubt, she could  and should  have spoken to LV to clarify matters and 
to make her situation clear to them. She was invited to contact them  if she had any concerns 
or queries when  she received the policy documents. And she was very clearly  told that 
providing false information might have  dire consequences. If she was in any doubt about 
what lived in or occupied meant,  she should  have  raised that with LV. 
Mrs C has made much  of the fact that some  of LVs correspondence refers to whether the 
house was occupied or not. She says this doesnt  mean the same as lived  in. She says 
her husband  was at the house  carrying  out renovations  most  days,  for most of the day. 
So the house was occupied.
Ref: DRN71428194I dont think this line of argument holds up. The policy documents  clearly and explicitly define 
occupied as lived in. And as set out above, the questions Mrs C answered when she 
bought the policy asked  who was living at the property.
In summary,  Mrs C said the house  was lived in. It wasnt.  She said the house  was in good  
condition. It wasnt. To answer those  simple and reasonably unambiguous questions 
incorrectly is careless at the very least.
LV have shown  us their internal underwriting guidance which sets out the criteria they use in 
deciding whether to offer home insurance  cover.
Where a property is not the main home the applicant lives in  and isnt lived in by anyone 
else  LV will only offer insurance where the applicant already has a live household 
insurance policy (to cover their other  home) with LV.
The property Mrs C described  as her previous home, which  in fact she appears to have 
continued to live in whilst  the renovations were carried out, wasnt  insured with LV.
So, Im satisfied that if LV had known the truth about the property  Mrs C was seeking  to 
insure, they wouldnt have offered cover.
That being  the case, they are entitled  under CIDRA to void Mrs Cs policy and to refuse to 
consider her claim. And in doing so, they havent  acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mrs C.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 March  2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142819