K820x#14complaint
Ms T and her representative, Mr B, complain that Santander UK Plc didnt raise a 
chargeback against  a credit card payment when they asked  it to do so.
background
Mr B says he visited a fast food restaurant with his family in November 2018  and paid for 
food using a credit card. Ms T is the credit  card accounts primary card holder and Mr B is an 
authorised user of the account.  Mr B told us:
the restaurant was very busy;  there were events  taking place in the vicinity and he 
had to queue for around 20 minutes  before he could place his food order.
he took the meals  to an outside  seating  area for his family and then tried to re-enter  
the restaurant to use the washrooms.
a security guard refused to let him enter the restaurant on the grounds that it was 
already full of people.
he was left in a very difficult  and embarrassing situation.
Mr B says he complained  to the fast food restaurant, Ill call it Firm A. Although  it didnt 
dispute his story, it told him the security was provided by a third party, Ill call it Firm B, and 
hed need to raise  the matter directly with it.
Mr B says he had no relationship or contract  with Firm B; he was a customer  of Firm A and 
the law requires Firm A to provide customers who dine in a restaurant with access to 
washrooms. Mr B took his complaint to Santander and asked it to raise  a chargeback.
Santander rejected  Mr Bs complaint.  It explained  that Mr Bs credit card payment had been 
for food only.  It said hed not paid to use the washrooms; the washroom does  not hold any 
value and does  not fit with the chargeback process and quality  of service isnt one of the 
reasons under which a chargeback can be raised.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the credit card transaction entered into was for food only;  Mr B hadnt made a 
payment to use the washroom facilities. So not being able to use the washrooms couldnt be 
covered by the chargeback process.
Mr B disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says a washroom facility isnt a 
voluntarily added nicetythe restaurant is required in law to have toiletsits  an affront to 
that law to imply that the customer does not have  a reasonable expectation to use them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell Mr B that 
I think the adjudicator  has reached  the right outcome here.
Chargeback is a process under card scheme operating  rules   in this case  Mastercard  
which allows  a card issuer  in this case Santander   to reclaim card payments made  by its 
customer from the bank  of the person  or merchant who received the payment. But Mr B 
should note that there  is no right to a chargeback  because its a process  agreed between  
banks and payment  card schemes rather than banks and their customers.
Ref: DRN78009192We generally consider  that, as a matter  of good practice,  the card issuer should attempt a 
chargeback if the card holder has challenged  a transaction and - taking into account relevant 
card scheme rules  it looks  as if theres  a fair chance that a chargeback request might 
succeed. But just because the customer makes  a request it doesnt mean the chargeback 
will necessarily succeed. This is because the rules lay down strict conditions which must be 
satisfied for a chargeback claim to succeed.  
But in this particular  case, I dont think that there was a reasonable chance  that the request 
would succeed.  This is because  Firm A had already investigated Mr Bs complaint and 
concluded it wasnt responsible for what happened. Moreover, the scheme  rules  only allow a 
chargeback if goods or services arent received, or when the merchant isnt able to provide  
the service. Mr B did receive the goods that he paid for  he purchased and received meals 
from Firm A and that isnt disputed. And although  I accept  he was disappointed  with the 
availability of Firm As other  services, these were free  Mr B made no payment for them.
So I dont  consider the chargeback would have  been successful. I say this because I dont 
think its very likely  that Santanders  chargeback attempt would have gone unchallenged. 
And in the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to require  
Santander to refund any money to Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7800919