K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (First Direct) offered poor 
customer service  when  she changed the name on her bank account. She wants  £1000 
compensation.
background
Miss O changed her name by Deed Poll in August 2018. She says she took a form into a 
local HSBC branch to change  the name on her First Direct account. Towards the end of 
October 2018 she called First Direct to find out why they hadnt changed the name  on her 
bank account  as shed asked and was told they had no record  of her request. 
Miss O says First Direct then told her a form would be posted  to her in line with their usual 
process. She says she was told the form would explain what  she needed to do and what  
supporting documents the bank  would need to see but she says she never received it.  She  
says when she called the bank they didnt give clear information. This meant the whole 
process took longer than it should  and was very stressful.  
First Direct  say the name  change process  would always be done by post. They say they did 
send Miss O the form when she requested it and they believe they were clear - both in 
writing and during  calls - about the documents  theyd  need to see before they could  change  
the name on her account. They do accept that some of their communication with Miss O 
could have been better and so offered her £100  for the inconvenience caused and to cover  
the cost of the calls she had to make. Miss O didnt think this was enough  and complained to 
our service.
The adjudicator considered the evidence and felt that, while  there had been some  poor 
service by First Direct, the offer theyd  made  to pay Miss O £100 was a fair way to put things 
right. She didnt  think it was reasonable to ask them  to do anything  more. Miss O remained 
unhappy with this outcome. She didnt  think the amount of compensation offered reflected 
the considerable impact on her in terms of time,  inconvenience and upset. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Miss O and First Direct  that Ive read everything thats been 
sent and listened to the calls. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent 
considered it. Its just that I dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think  
is a fair and reasonable outcome. While I know Miss O will be disappointed,  I think  that the 
adjudicators decision  was the right one. Ill explain why. 
Miss O says she took a form into an HSBC  branch  to change the name  on her First Direct 
account. I can understand her frustration when it appeared that nothing happened after that 
but First Direct say that this is not the correct process in any event. They have their own 
form that needs to be completed and returned to them by post with supporting  documents.  I 
Ref: DRN79496432dont think it is unreasonable for First Direct  to require customers to follow their process in 
order to make a change to their account name.
I am satisfied that Miss O was made aware  of the supporting documents  the bank required 
to complete a name change. The need for certified copies of identification documents  such 
as a passport  or driving licence was mentioned in the paperwork that prompted  Miss O to 
send her Deed Poll to the bank, so I am satisfied she received it. It was also discussed  in 
calls with Miss O. 
But there were delays in linking  up post with Miss Os account and this meant  she had to 
make phone calls chasing things up which must  have been irritating.  First Direct have 
recognised their part in this and offered £100  compensation.  I think that is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint. I am not going  to ask them to do anything  more. Miss O must now 
decide whether  she wishes  to accept  the compensation which has been  offered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in that I dont require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc trading as First Direct to do anything  more than they have already done. Its a matter  for 
Miss O to decide whether to accept the offer of £100  compensation thats  been  made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Nicola Crabb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7949643