K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Clydesdale Bank Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge  
(ERC) when they moved home. Theyd  like the ERC refunded,  with interest.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a repayment mortgage  of about £175,000 with Clydesdale  in 
February 2016. They bought a property for £250,000 and say they spent about £50,000 
renovating it.
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs S took out a five year fixed  rate product.  They  say they 
intended to move house within a year, so it was important they could  port the mortgage. 
Clydesdale confirmed that the product they chose was portable.
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs S accepted an offer for the property and asked to port their 
mortgage. Clydesdale declined. Mr and Mrs S sold the property and paid an ERC of about  
£8,000. Mr and Mrs S said Clydesdale:
didnt explain that porting would  require a full mortgage application  and could be 
declined. If theyd  known this, they wouldnt have  taken out a new product;
didnt explain that they could have  stayed on the variable rate after their current product 
ended and no ERC would apply;
was unfair when it declined their porting  application.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said the 
mortgage product  was taken out on a non-advised basis. Clydesdale had said the mortgage  
was portable,  which was correct. The product offer said porting was subject to meeting  
Clydesdales lending  criteria. Clydesdale assessed Mr and Mrs Fs application to port the 
mortgage but said it didnt meet its lending criteria due to their unsecured loans and adverse  
information on credit files. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the product switch  in December 2017:
The offer document for the product switch sets out the ERC payable if the mortgage is 
repaid during the product term. It also says the ERC  wont apply if the mortgage is ported. It 
says the mortgage can only be ported if you meet all of our lending criteria when you ask to 
port.
Mr S called Clydesdale in December 2017  about taking out a new product,  which  he was 
doing online. He asked  about porting their existing product,  which ended in April 2018. And 
Clydesdale confirmed the product Mr S intended  to take out was portable  which  was 
Ref: DRN73304682correct. I dont think the information Clydesdale  gave to Mr S on the call was incorrect or 
misleading. 
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt know theyd  have to go through a full mortgage application 
when they applied to port or that this could be declined. But I dont  think  Mr and Mrs S were  
misled about this. I think its clear in the offer document that porting depended on them  
meeting lending criteria  and, therefore, might  not be successful. 
the porting application:
Clydesdale declined Mr and Mrs Ss application because adverse data on their credit  files 
and late mortgage  payments  meant  it didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs S dispute that they were late with mortgage payments. But I can see from their 
statements that they didnt make their contractual monthly payment in full in April 2017 and 
they were sent reminders in each of April, May, June  and July 2017 as their payments were 
overdue. 
Clydesdale was concerned about  Mr and Mrs Ss unsecured borrowing. Mr and Mrs S say 
this had been repaid or would be repaid  when  they sold their property. They  say after using 
some of the sales proceeds to repay the mortgage and £30,000 of unsecured debts they had 
a balance of about £167,000, part of which theyve used towards  an investment property. 
But Mr and Mrs S wanted  to port all of the mortgage  balance to avoid the ERC. This meant 
their monthly mortgage payments would have  stayed the same.  The information on their 
credit file, and the late mortgage payments, suggest  theyd had trouble meeting their 
commitments and expenditure. And their statements  show no payments were  made  to their 
mortgage account in August and October  2018: So, in the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Clydesdale to be concerned that this might be an ongoing problem.
It seems  Mr and Mrs S didnt need the mortgage to be ported in full to move home. As 
theyve pointed out, they had a significant  balance  remaining from their house sale after 
theyd repaid the mortgage and credit  card debts. They could have used more of this 
towards the purchase of a new property and reduced their mortgage  loan.  But they didnt 
want to do so. They wanted to avoid paying the ERC (and, perhaps,  wanted to invest the 
money elsewhere). While I can understand this, I dont  think  its reasonable to say that 
Clydesdale should  have agreed Mr and Mrs Ss porting application despite it not meeting its 
lending criteria. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances  to require Clydesdale  to refund the 
ERC or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7330468