K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services  Plc (M&S) wont  honour 
£40 worth of vouchers sent to them in error  when renewing their home insurance.
background
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs Bs home  insurance came up for renewal. They renewed their 
policy with M&S, and received £40 worth of vouchers after the insurance had been taken 
out.
M&S later contacted  Mr and Mrs B, and explained the vouchers had been sent in error, and 
they wouldnt be accepted in store or online.
Mr and Mrs B complained to M&S. They replied and explained the vouchers were  sent in 
error as they werent part of the renewal offer.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with this, so asked our service to look into the complaint. They 
said they wanted M&S to honour  the vouchers.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. In summary she said:
as the vouchers werent part of the renewal offer it didnt have any effect on 
Mr and Mrs Bs decision  to renew   something Mrs B agrees with
they didnt  try to use the vouchers
M&S  was allowed to make a business decision to withdraw the vouchers theyd 
offered in error
and M&S  acted reasonably by writing out to Mr and Mrs B to explain whatd 
happened
Because of these  points, the adjudicator felt Mr and Mrs B hadnt lost out financially, and she 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with the outcome. They feel that as the mistake  was M&S, not 
theirs, the vouchers should be honoured. Because of this, the complaint has been passed to 
me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint, which  I know will be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs B. Ill explain why.
M&S have  accepted they made an error.  The literature theyve sent to us shows these 
vouchers were part of a campaign to bring in new customers. Ive looked carefully at the 
renewal Mr and Mrs B received for their home insurance  and it doesnt offer these 
vouchers  and these  vouchers were  only sent after renewal. Because  of this, Im satisfied 
M&S isnt required to give Mr and Mrs B the vouchers as part of the renewal  for their home 
insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN70009342I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration  with the situation  and I do get why they feel 
the vouchers should be honoured as the mistake was M&S.  But mistakes can and do 
happen. M&S are allowed  to choose not to honour  the vouchers. And I can see they let 
Mr and Mrs B know in a reasonable period of time the vouchers were no longer valid  and 
theyd been sent in error. Ive also not seen anything to make me think Mr and Mrs B had 
attempted to use the vouchers before they were told about the error. 
Taking everything into account,  M&S  didnt have  to give vouchers to Mr and Mrs B for 
renewing their home insurance policy. And I dont require  them to honour  the vouchers 
following their mistake  in doing  so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7000934