K820x#14complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 and Ms A, as executors of the late Mrs S, complain  that Barclays Bank  PLC 
has provided them with poor service  and lost important documents.
background
The executors of the late Mrs S made two complaints to Barclays about the service they 
received from it. One was about Barclays delays in transferring an ISA and the second was 
about lost documents. For the avoidance  of doubt, the executors have said that Barclays has 
resolved the issue  involving the ISA.
In August  2017  all three executors of the late Mrs Ss estate visited  Barclays  and the bank  
took copies of the late Mrs Ss Will and identity documents for two of the executors. Barclays 
sent these documents to its bereavement department but the copies of the identity 
documents failed  to arrive.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld  in the sense that Barclays had 
accepted it lost the documents and had already paid £500 by way of apology  for the upset 
and distress it caused. He thought this was fair and reasonable.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 and Ms A responded to say, in summary, that they thought Barclays had 
merged this complaint  with the one about  the ISA and the compensation it had paid was for 
that complaint.  They didnt  think the matter about the lost documents had been resolved and 
were concerned that this may lead to identity theft.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
loss of personal information
Barclays doesnt dispute that it has lost copies of identification documents  provided by two of 
the executors  to the late Mrs Ss estate. It copied  the documents  in its branch and they went 
missing between the banks branch and its bereavement department. The executors remain  
concerned that Barclays hasnt been able to tell them what  happened to the copy 
documents. They say that Barclays has a duty to hold such information in a secure and safe 
manner and there isnt any evidence to confirm that the information has been destroyed. 
They are concerned that this may leave  them vulnerable to identity fraud. 
Im satisfied that the banks normal procedure is to send the documents  through its internal 
post to its processing  centre for scanning. Then  they are electronically  sent to the 
appropriate department. Once scanned the documents are destroyed  securely.
It is clear that a copy of the Will was scanned and forwarded to the bereavement  team. As 
the branch had all the documents together, in the circumstances, I consider  it to be more  
likely than not that all the documents arrived at the processing centre  but, due to human 
error, only a scan of the Will was forwarded to the bereavement team.  Then the documents  
were destroyed in line with Barclays normal procedures.
Although I consider it to be unlikely, in the event that the copies of the identity documents 
and Will were  separated in the branch, Barclays says that it disposes  of any sensitive 
information through confidential waste.
Ref: DRN72314212I fully understand  the executors concerns that they may be vulnerable to identity theft but 
there isnt any evidence to suggest  that the information has been disclosed to anyone 
outside of Barclays.  Further,  it doesnt appear that the personal information has been 
compromised so Im not sure what will be achieved by asking the bank to do any more. In all 
the circumstances, and on balance, I find it likely that the documents were destroyed  as 
confidential waste, in line with Barclays procedures. 
compensation
I appreciate that the executors say that Barclays paid £500 in August 2018  was for their 
complaint about  the ISA. I find Barclays paid £75 in April 2018 because it made a mistake  in 
cancelling the executors  request to transfer  an ISA. I consider it did cause further  delays, 
albeit by just a month, in sending the remaining  cash and closing the account  when  it said it 
would. But it paid statutory interest at 8% on this amount for the time the estate was without 
the money, which is fair.
Barclays also wrote  to the executors in April 2018  about the lost documents and offered to 
pay £500 for the upset it caused by losing the documents.  
I have carefully reviewed all the letters about both complaints and I can see where confusion 
may have  arisen.  Barclays  letter, sent in August 2018, was headed  Residual  Cash  and was 
predominantly about the delay in closing the ISA. It could have been much clearer.  Im 
satisfied that it has rolled both complaints  into one and the £500 it paid at the time was the 
amount it had offered to pay in its letter dated 4 April 2018.
I fully understand  that the executors have, undoubtedly, been  caused a significant amount  of 
upset and distress, but Im satisfied they havent suffered a financial loss. Ive thought about 
the scale and impact of the mistakes, and the inconvenience Barclays  caused by misplacing 
the identification documents, and I think the £500  it has paid already for this is fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
and Ms A, as executors  of the late Mrs S, to accept or reject my decision before 
28 March 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7231421