K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Miss T in February 1997. The 
policy was added to Miss Ts credit  card account after she sent in an application in the post.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ts complaint for the following reasons:
 I am persuaded  Bank of Scotland made  Miss T aware that the PPI was optional and 
she chose to take it. I say this because I can see on the application form she 
completed, a separate section for PPI where  it is presented as optional.  It says please 
arrange credit care insurance cover to protect  my repayments  next to box that has 
been ticked. So after seeing  this, I think that Miss T was given a choice to have PPI on 
the form and she agreed  to it by ticking the box and then signing the form.
 As this was a postal  sale,  Bank  of Scotland didnt provide advice to Miss T so it didnt 
need to ensure  that the policy was suitable  for her. But it did have to ensure that the 
information it gave  Miss T was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an 
informed choice  about the insurance. 
 When looking at the information provided on the form, I am not sure that it did. But 
even if it had provided  clear information to Miss T, I dont  think  it would have made  a 
difference as I think she would have taken the PPI policy  anyway. 
 I say this because,  when  looking  at Miss Ts circumstances  at the time, I think she 
would have found  the cover useful. She has told us that she had around £10,000 
savings at the time of sale, but the policy would have provided a useful benefit  in a 
difficult time and for longer.  The policy would have paid for up to an extended period of 
12 months if she couldnt  work. So I think he would have found at least  some benefit in 
having the cover  when she most  needed it.
 I dont think on this occasion Miss T was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
within the policy such as those given for pre-existing medical  conditions.  
Ref: DRN71226912 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Miss T. But I think  she wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway even if they were  for the same reasons  that I have already given. 
The PPI policy  was competitively  priced and affordable.   
So I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold  Miss T this PPI policy.  This means Bank of 
Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T. But Bank of Scotland  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss T about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Miss T, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7122691