K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Barbon  Insurance Group  Limited mis-sold her a contents  insurance 
policy for her tenanted property, and later allowed it to renew despite knowing the property 
was unoccupied and being  sold. Miss H is also unhappy she experienced difficulties when 
trying to cancel the policy and the cancellation  fee.
background
In September  2015 Miss H took out a landlord insurance policy, for contents items, through 
Barbon. The sale took place over the phone, and the policy automatically renewed in 2016 
and 2017.
In March 2018 Miss H sold the property. She says she tried to contact Barbon to cancel the 
policy, but because  she couldnt get through she cancelled  her monthly direct debit instead. 
The policy was taken  out on finance, so Miss Hs direct debit payments were  to the finance 
provider. 
In early April 2018 Barbon  made contact with Miss H to explain that she was in £41 arrears  
with the finance provider   £11 was for Aprils  missed  payment after the direct debit attempt 
was unsuccessful and £30 was a missed  payment charge. Barbon explained to Miss H that 
she could either settle her arrears with the finance provider and keep the policy running, or 
pay Barbons £35 cancellation fee  and the arrears would no longer be payable. Miss H 
says she instead  chose to pay the remaining annual premium to the finance provider to 
avoid her credit file being affected. Her policy was then cancelled  without any further 
charges.
Miss H went on to make the following complaints:
-Miss H says the policy was mis-sold. Shes explained that the property was unfurnished 
apart from integrated  appliances and carpets   and she says she was given the wrong 
impression during the sale that her white goods would be covered.
-Miss H says the 2017 policy  renewal was invalid. She says she told Barbon the property 
was unoccupied and being  sold a few months  before the renewal.  She says because of 
the occupancy  she could have only benefitted  from limited  cover and Barbon  should 
have pointed this out at renewal, given it was aware of her circumstances.
-Miss H was unhappy Barbon had asked for a cancellation fee and wouldnt simply cancel 
the policy given  she no longer  owned  the property. She also said she had experienced 
difficulties when  trying  to contact Barbon  during March and April 2018. 
Barbon didnt  agree the policy had been  mis-sold.  It said it didnt give Miss H any advice 
about the suitability of the policy, but it outlined what was covered. It also explained the 
cancellation fee was detailed in the policy literature, and said it had followed the correct 
process when Miss H had tried to cancel her policy. In respect of the difficulties Miss H 
experienced when trying to contact Barbon  to cancel her policy,  it explained that its 
insurance team has a voicemail facility and messages are responded to regularly.
However, Barbon offered to refund Miss Hs last annual premium in full, which equated  to 
£101. It said had the insurer known the property was being sold it wouldnt have offered 
cover. It also offered a further £50 for the delays in responding  to her complaint.
Ref: DRN75386322Miss H accepted Barbons offer of £151. But she remained unhappy about the other  issues,  
and explained  she would  be contacting  our service. Barbon confirmed it wouldnt make any 
payments until we had considered the matter.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, but he didnt think it should be 
upheld. He agreed with Barbon  about the sale and the cancellation fee; and although he 
accepted Miss H had experienced  some  difficulties when contacting Barbon, he didnt 
consider compensation should  be paid.   
Miss H disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
Barbon has confirmed  it has now paid Miss H the £151 it offered when responding to her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale
Miss H says the policy was mis-sold because she has since  discovered it didnt cover her 
integrated appliances. So Ive listened  to the quotation and sale calls, and reviewed the 
documentation which  Ive seen was sent to Miss H at the time.
The point of sale documentation and calls made  it clear that Barbon  wasnt giving Miss H 
advice about the suitability of the policy or recommending it to her  but rather it was her 
responsibility to make  sure the policy met her needs. Because the sale was non-advised, 
Barbon didnt  have to check if the policy was right for Miss H. But it did have to give her 
information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she could make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy out. 
Miss H had contacted  Barbon about a rent protection policy due to tenants that were moving 
in. She also asked the agent about  protecting the contents, but she explained the property 
was unfurnished  apart from built-in white goods  so she didnt know  whether she needed 
cover. The agent  responded  by explaining that a contents policy  would cover  things like: 
carpets, curtains, blinds,  light fittings,  free-standing  white goods, any furniture left in the 
property Miss H then explained she was just about to refurbish the property, including  
new carpets, so she thought she should  look into contents cover.  Quotations were then 
discussed and Miss H asked to be sent details before  making a decision. Miss H later 
confirmed she had read the information and wanted to take the contents policy out.
Although Miss H noted she had built-in white goods,  she didnt ask whether these would be 
covered and neither was she told they would be  she was told free-standing white goods 
would be covered, along with a list of other items. It was for Miss H to decide  whether she 
wanted the policy based on this information, and in my view, her response suggested she 
wanted the cover because of the planned  refurbishment. Miss H had the opportunity  to 
clarify whether her integrated appliances would be covered  either during the quotation 
discussion or after receiving the policy terms  but she didnt  do so. As such, Im not 
persuaded Barbon misled Miss H. Im more persuaded  that Barbon  gave  her clear 
information to enable an informed choice. 
Ref: DRN75386323So having  carefully considered the discussions that took place, Im not persuaded the policy  
was mis-sold.
2017 renewal,  cancellation, and complaint
Miss H says the policy shouldnt have renewed in 2017. She says Barbon was aware the 
property was unoccupied and of her intention to sell it. However, even if I were  to decide 
Barbon had something wrong, Im satisfied its since put matters right by refunding the 
premium for that year. So I wont be considering this point further.
In terms of the cancellation, having  reviewed the policy documents  which Ive seen were  
sent to Miss H at the time of the sale and the 2017  renewal   Im satisfied Barbon was 
entitled to charge a £35 cancellation fee before ending the policy.  
Miss H had simply cancelled her direct debit,  rather than reaching an agreement with Barbon 
to end her policy   this meant the policy remained in force and her monthly payments were 
still payable. Nonetheless,  Barbon  was attempting to cancel Miss Hs policy retrospectively, 
as per her intentions,  to take effect  before April 2018. Doing so would have meant Miss H 
wasnt in arrears with the credit provider, and would have therefore  stopped  her credit  file 
from being affected. Although she was being  asked to pay the cancellation fee, this was 
payable under the terms she agreed to and it was the cheapest solution for her. So Im 
satisfied Barbon  was treating Miss H fairly.
I do accept that Miss H had some  difficulties getting  through to Barbon. But I agree with our 
investigator, Im not persuaded she suffered a degree of inconvenience  that ought to be 
compensated. From the calls Ive listened  to, and the emails  Ive seen, Barbon was 
endeavouring to help Miss H. Im not persuaded she was given poor service.
Miss H has pointed out that it took Barbon ten weeks  to respond to her complaint. Under the 
regulators rules Barbon had eight weeks to provide her with a final response.  Barbon  has 
compensated Miss H £50 for the delay  and overall, I consider  this to be a fair 
acknowledgment.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss H. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7538632