K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs unhappy with Equifax Limiteds  online activation process. 
background
Mr G says he tried to obtain his Equifax credit  report online but he couldnt do so despite 
entering his details correctly. He says when he complained to Equifax it wanted two pieces 
of identification  from him even though  he was able to obtain his credit score from another 
business operated  by Equifax without  a problem. He thinks Equifax is hiding behind  security 
or identification false pretences to avoid  acknowledging  its systems didnt process  his online 
credit report.  He wants his online account  activated, an apology  and compensation for the 
stress, time lost and incorrect information  provided.  
Equifax said in its final response  that it needed two pieces of acceptable documentation from 
a specified list to confirm Mr Gs identity. Its obliged to take all necessary steps  to ensure it 
doesnt compromise an individuals personal information and so for security reasons it 
couldnt release  his credit report. Thats why Mr Gs been asked to provide documentation 
for verification purposes.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
The security  questions  asked by Equifax and its other business may not be the same. 
Equifax says its verification process  is based on how much information  lenders have 
recorded in a consumers name. If there  is enough  information on the account the 
system will generate a list of security  questions.  But if there  isnt enough information on 
the account to generate security questions  it will require  a consumer to provide 
identification.
Here Equifax  has confirmed it couldnt  verify Mr Gs identity online and it asked him for 
further verification in line with its process.  His credit  report wasnt  processed as he didnt 
pass security and his account wasnt activated.  Mr G also attempted to log in to an old 
account. The application status was shown as inactive and after his attempted log in the 
account fell into the three year data application rule which  meant his application  was 
deleted. This is in line with GDPR  regulations. 
Equifax hasnt  done  anything wrong by following its security processes.  It hadnt been 
provided with enough  information to safely verify Mr G. And she will not be asking  it to 
do anything more.
Mr G remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the passage  of time and data protection rules Mr Gs application isnt now available. 
So, its not possible to say exactly what information  he gave when trying to activate his 
account to access  his credit report.  But I think its likely either  some  of the information he 
gave  even if correct - didnt match  what Equifax had or it didnt have enough information to 
generate security questions for him to answer.
Ref: DRN73548632Whatever happened, Equifax is obliged  to keep Mr Gs personal information secure. To do 
so its set up security verification processes. Its not for me to question  or interfere with them 
and the processes it adopts may well be different from those used by other businesses.
Here it appears that Equifax has correctly  followed  its security  verification process.  When  it 
couldnt, for whatever reason, verify  Mr Gs identity it asked him to send in two documents  
from a list of specified acceptable ones  to verify his identity. I think that was reasonable.
In addition Equifax  has confirmed  that there were no IT issues  with its system at the relevant  
times.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Equifax has done anything wrong. Although I 
understand Mr Gs frustration I think it was entitled  to follow  its security  processes and ask him 
for documentary proof to verify his identity before allowing him access to his credit report.
Overall I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Equifax to activate  Mr Gs account 
without him satisfying its security processes or to pay him compensation as hed like. And I 
dont see any reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7354863