K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about the early repayment charge (ERC) Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
applied when they paid back their mortgage. They say it was too high and doesnt represent 
a reasonable estimate of the costs of ending their mortgage early. They want the charge 
reduced from 3% to 1%.
background
Mr and Mrs E had a mortgage with Barclays. In 2013, they fixed  their interest rate for five 
years. The mortgage offer said that there  was an ERC of 3% which  would apply until 2018.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs E paid off their mortgage, and Barclays charged them the ERC of 3%. 
Mr and Mrs E complained. They said having  the same charge for the whole five year term 
wasnt fair and it should have  reduced. They  said that, in the last year of their fixed rate, 3% 
didnt represent  Barclays costs in paying  the loan back early. They said that they didnt think  
it could be a reasonable pre-estimate of those costs, and said they thought  a 1% charge 
would be more reasonable.
Barclays said it set the ERC based  on its costs of funding at the time the mortgage  was 
taken out. It said if the mortgage ends early, it will no longer receive  the interest payments, 
and the ERC  is compensation for that. It didnt agree to waive or reduce the ERC.
Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. As she didnt uphold it, Mr and Mrs E asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When they first complained, Barclays sent Mr and Mrs E a letter  that said the ERC was a 
charge imposed by the Treasury on lenders. Thats  clearly not correct, and Barclays 
shouldnt have said that as it caused Mr and Mrs E some confusion in understanding  what 
lay behind the ERC. Ive asked Barclays why it said this and it cant explain why Mr and Mrs 
E were given clearly  incorrect  information.  But its given us the right explanation  now.
In very simple terms, when  a lender offers  a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower are tied 
in to the fixed rate for the duration  of the fixed term. Theres a cost to the lender in raising the 
funds to lend,  which it recovers in interest payments.  And it has to protect itself against the 
possibility of interest rates rising before the fixed rate ends, and theres  a cost to that too. 
If the borrower ends  the fixed rate early by paying back the mortgage,  the lender will stop 
receiving income in the form of monthly interest.  So theres a risk the lender wont recover its 
costs. That means theres a clause in the mortgage agreement which allows  the borrower to 
exit the mortgage early   in return for paying  an ERC. The purpose of the ERC is to 
compensate the lender for the early  end of the fixed rate period.
The rules  of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed  as a cash value,  and must  be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  resulting  from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
Ref: DRN79197012choose how it calculates an ERC,  and  importantly  can calculate the same level of ERC 
across a group of mortgages of similar  type,  rather than for individual  loans  just as in 
practice funds to lend are raised in bulk, not individually.
That means that Barclays is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of 
Mr and Mrs E ending  their individual mortgage early,  but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
In practice, it cant be known at the time the mortgage is taken out whether an individual 
borrower will or will not end their fixed rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate 
in advance the costs of ending the particular mortgage early. But the lender can estimate  
how many  borrowers, on average, will do so  and apply those costs  across a group of 
mortgages. The price  of the mortgage,  both the interest rate and the ERC, are set at a level 
that allows the lender to recover its costs.
Barclays has sent us information about  how its pre-estimate of loss on mortgages of the type 
Mr and Mrs E held was calculated. Its done so in confidence.  I know  Mr E isnt happy  with 
this. Hes offered to give an undertaking of confidentiality so that he can see Barclays  data 
and respond to it. 
I do understand his frustration. But our rules allow either party to a complaint  to submit 
evidence in confidence. Its then for us to decide  if its fair to rely on it when deciding the 
outcome. Barclays has given us detailed information about how it funds its mortgages, how 
its business is organised,  and what its various costs are. That information  is commercially 
sensitive and confidential. But its also material and highly relevant to this complaint. So Im 
satisfied that its appropriate  for me to receive it in confidence, subject to me summarising it. 
In summary,  the information shows that theres  a cost to Barclays  in raising the funds it 
lends, and in carrying out the activities around lending, including  protecting  itself against 
market movements while the funds are lent. That cost has to be recouped  through  the 
lending  and in particular the interest  received over time. Barclays  allocates that cost across 
its mortgages in the expectation that a certain proportion will end before the fixed rate 
period, and the cost allocated to those  is estimated  to reflect the losses to Barclays  from the 
interest it will no longer receive from those  mortgages.
The ERC they paid isnt designed to reflect the losses   if any  on the early  repayment of 
Mr and Mrs Es own mortgage. Rather, its designed  to reflect a share of the total losses  
Barclays estimated, when it set the ERC,  that it would incur  if the anticipated number of 
mortgages ended early. 
Finally, Barclays  chose  to recover the costs  through use of a flat rate rather than a stepped 
rate ERC (that is, one which  reduces  over time). Its 3% throughout the five years, and Mr E 
has argued 1% would be fairer in the last year. But theres no requirement to have a stepped 
rate  some lenders  do, some dont. The key point is that the ERC payable has to represent 
a reasonable pre-estimate,  and Barclays could  choose to recover  the pre-estimate, across 
the product range,  via a higher charge  early  in the fixed rate or via the same charge 
throughout. That its chosen one method over the other  doesnt  make the charge unfair.
This is a reasonable method of setting an ERC. Its in line with the regulators rules, which  
allow an estimate to be used, and allow that estimate to be set across a portfolio of 
mortgages rather than on an individual basis. Im aware, both from my knowledge of the 
Ref: DRN79197013mortgage industry and from other complaints, that Barclays methodology is broadly in line 
with that of the wider industry. 
I dont think its required, or practical,  for ERCs  to be calculated individually  in every 
mortgage, and so the portfolio approach is a reasonable one to take.  Barclays  has shown 
that 3% represents a reasonable  pre-estimate  of the costs involved in ending this group  of 
mortgages. I therefore think the ERC  itself was fair, and fairly charged.  And it follows  I dont  
think it would  be fair to ask Barclays to waive, or reduce,  the ERC Mr and Mrs E paid to 
redeem their mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7919701