K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with Skrill Limiteds  decision to close  his account. This has resulted in him 
being unable  to access other  money from a third party broker.
background
In January 2018, Mr G opened an account with Skrill. In June  2018,  Skrill reviewed Mr Gs 
account and made the decision to close the account.
Mr G wasnt happy with this. He used his Skrill account to deposit  funds to a third party  forex 
broker  and he needed this account  to withdraw his money held with the third party broker.
The investigator who looked at Mr Gs complaint didnt  think Skrill had acted unfairly. He said 
they were entitled  to review, and subsequently close Mr Gs account. And while he 
recognised the distress  and financial strain the account closure had caused (because Mr G 
couldnt access the money held with the third party broker), he couldnt reasonably ask Skrill 
to re-open the account.
Mr G remained  unhappy. As an agreement couldnt be reached,  the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Skrill have acted  appropriately.  So I wont  be asking them to do anything  
more. I know this will deeply  upset  Mr G so Ive explained my reasons further below.
account review and closure
I recognise how concerning it must have been  for Mr G to realise he couldnt use his 
account. However, Ive considered Skrills  actions when  blocking, and subsequently closing 
the account.
Like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line with their legal and regulatory  
obligations. So while  I appreciate the inconvenience  this may have caused, having looked  at 
the evidence,  I cant fairly  say Skrill acted outside  of their procedures when it blocked  Mr Gs 
account.
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr Gs account, Skrill are entitled  to close the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Skrill were entitled to close Mr Gs account.  While I appreciate its frustrating they havent 
given a reason   theyre not obliged to. But I want to reassure Mr G that Ive made sure that 
Skrill did everything they were meant to do and followed  the terms and conditions 
appropriately.
the third party  broker
I appreciate Mr Gs main concern is that he needs use of his Skrill account  so he can 
withdraw his funds from the forex  broker. But Ive explained above  why Skrill were entitled  to 
close the account. And therefore I wont be asking them to re-open  it.
Ref: DRN72364482I appreciate this leaves  Mr G in a difficult position  as hes unable  to withdraw a large 
amount of money  which hes entitled  to. But I cant hold Skrill responsible  for another 
companys terms and conditions. Ive also considered Mr Gs feelings  that Skrill  and the third 
party broker  are working together. But I havent  seen anything  to suggest thats the case  and 
therefore I cant uphold  his complaint on this point alone. 
Overall, Skrill  were  entitled to close the account in the way they did. And its not fair to hold 
them responsible for another companys terms and conditions. So I wont  be asking them  to 
do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7236448