K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds  service  when  he tried to 
renew his motor insurance  policy.
background 
Mr A said that Hastings made mistakes when he tried to renew his policy with them. They  
apologised for these and offered him a total of £55 in compensation. But Mr A remained 
dissatisfied.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought that 
Hastings had dealt  with the complaint fairly and their compensation was reasonable. Mr A 
didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A already  had a policy with Hastings and wanted to renew it. They sent him a renewal 
quote but Mr A looked online and found  a cheaper quote with them. They said theyd keep it 
open for him until his renewal date. But they then sent him a higher quote saying that could 
only be held for a short time.  
Hastings said that by mistake theyd  given Mr A a new business  quote, which  wasnt 
available to existing  customers. Then, again  by mistake,  they gave him a higher  quote for a 
different type of policy. They  said that the correct renewal quote  was the first one theyd  sent 
him. They apologised and offered him £35 for these mistakes.  
Mr A also made a data subject access request  (DSAR).  He complained that they didnt 
acknowledge that request  in their final response about his complaint. Hastings did later 
comply with his request.  They  also apologised and offered him another  £20 in compensation 
for the delay.
Mr A didnt think that the compensation  was enough.  He said hed wanted to stay insured 
with Hastings. But instead hed had to find alternative insurance because  of these issues, 
and this was inconvenient. He also wanted Hastings to review  their policy  renewal process. 
As the adjudicator explained  to Mr A, we cant look at Hastings process for renew their 
policies. But he could  if he wished raise  any concerns about their policy  renewal process 
with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who regulate  the financial services  industry.
I can see that the issues have been frustrating for Mr A and that Hastings 
miscommunication did cause him some  inconvenience. But I think that what they offered him 
in compensation  is reasonable  for that. And though I appreciate  that these issues  put him off 
continuing his insurance with Hastings,  ultimately  that was his decision rather  then theirs. So 
in the circumstances, I dont think that Hastings have been unreasonable  and I dont  ask 
them to do anything else. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN75306392For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7530639