K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the decision Tesco Personal Finance PLC made to refuse her 
application for a credit  card account.
background
Miss B applied for a credit card account with Tesco,  and she was turned down. Miss B said 
that she met Tescos published criteria for the card. She called Tesco  to find out why she 
had been turned down. She was told that she mightve been turned down because her 
address was different to that held by the credit reference agency, so she was then passed 
through to the underwriter. 
Miss B said that the underwriting team told her that shed been  turned down because she 
receives Employment  Support Allowance  (ESA). Miss B said that she couldnt have been 
turned down because of this initially, because at that stage Tesco didnt  know  where her 
income came from. 
Miss B also said that she receives ESA because she is classified as disabled. She said that 
ignoring income received because of a disability is discriminatory. 
Miss B said that throughout this complaint she had asked Tesco to communicate with her by 
email, because of her disability. But it wouldnt. She said that Tesco should be willing to 
make small and reasonable adjustments to help people who have disabilities. 
Miss B said that shed  appealed against  Tescos refusal to open a card account for her, and 
asked for the specific reasons that shed been  refused.  But Tesco  continued to refuse,  and it 
wouldnt give her the specific reasons why shed been turned down. She thought that Tesco  
was trying to avoid saying  that it wouldnt include a disability benefit as income,  because  that 
is discriminatory. She also wanted to know why her initial  application was turned  down.  She 
said she had a right to that information under data protection  law but hadnt  been given it. 
Miss B said that her income  had gone  up, because she now receives  Personal  
Independence Payment (PIP) too, but when she made a revised application, that was 
turned down within two minutes. Miss B said that wasnt  enough time to consider an 
application properly.  
Miss B said her complaint about these issues hadnt been upheld.  Tesco  had paid her £80 
because of some customer service issues. She still felt that there had been discrimination.
Miss B also said that her credit score had dropped since she made her application. She said 
that nothing else couldve affected that, so she was concerned that Tesco had placed 
something on her credit  file which was reducing her score. 
Miss B said that she felt strongly that the card should be issued to her, and she should be 
paid compensation for discrimination and for poor customer service,  as well as for Tescos 
refusal to make a small reasonable  adjustment for her. She wanted any information  that 
Tesco had placed on her credit file removed  and she wanted a proper explanation for the 
decision to decline her initial application. She also wanted Tesco  to reconsider its policy  of 
refusing to consider benefits related to disability as income, and she wanted its published 
eligibility criteria  to be much clearer. 
Ref: DRN79850822Tesco wrote  to Miss B about her complaint. It said that there had initially been  a problem 
with her address,  which was amended.  But her application was then declined,  because after 
ESA was deducted,  her total income  was below the threshold. Tesco  said it wouldnt 
consider ESA income  when assessing  lending applications. It said it didnt intend for that to 
be discriminatory and it was sorry she felt that. 
Tesco paid Miss B £80 for service errors it had made. Those  included  opening a complaint 
earlier than she had wanted, and a call where a manager took the wrong tone when 
responding to Miss B, and gave her the impression that Tesco  would speak to her within  48 
hours of her complaint. But Tesco didnt offer to open a card account  for Miss B. 
Tesco then wrote to us about this case. It said that Miss Bs application had initially  been  
refused because of the mismatch with the address. That was regrettable, but it did 
sometimes happen that the address Tesco held wasnt the same as that held by the credit 
reference agency. Once that was amended, the decision was no longer an immediate no. 
The application was referred, so that Tesco could ask Miss B about  her income. 
Tesco said that it doesnt consider ESA, or any other employment related benefit,  as income 
when its working out whether lending is affordable for someone. Payment of that benefit is 
subject to changeable personal circumstances,  and ultimately is payable  at the 
governments sole discretion. Tesco said that employment-based benefits are harder  to 
replace if they are reduced or lost. So it required its applicants to have other income. Tesco  
said that it didnt  discriminate on the basis of disability. It did accept  other benefits which 
were related  to disability.
Tesco said that it doesnt consider email a secure  form of communication, so it doesnt offer 
that as a way of communicating  with its customers.  It said it hadnt ignored  Miss Bs 
protected characteristics.  And it said Miss B could communicate with it by phone  or by letter. 
Tesco still thought  it was right to pay Miss B some compensation, because a complaint had 
been logged  for her when shed asked it not to do that, and because shed been  given some 
wrong information. But it said that it didnt  think the rest of her complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said he knew that Miss B felt she met the 
criteria that Tesco had published, but that wasnt a guarantee  that she would be accepted for 
the card. Our investigator said that Tesco had made a business  decision not to accept ESA 
as a form of income  for lending purposes. It does  accept  other  disability related benefits.  
Our investigator said that Tesco  had paid appropriate compensation for the things that had 
gone wrong in this case, and apologised. But he didnt think it was reasonable to ask Tesco 
to do something commercially  different. So he didnt think it had to do any more.
Miss B wrote  back to say that she didnt  agree.  And she set out some further issues shed 
experienced with other businesses. She also said that the address she had input had been 
provided by Tesco,  so she didnt believe that was a reason for turning down her application. 
Miss B said that some people getting ESA are sick, others are disabled.  Her ESA letter 
makes clear  that she is disabled. She said she wanted us to consider the equality act. She 
thought that she was being treated less favourably than others, based on her disability. And 
she said she thought  that her initial  application  was only declined  so she would have to get 
in touch, and reveal  where her income  was from. 
Ref: DRN79850823Miss B also said that our investigator  hadnt  considered Tescos  refusal  to make a 
reasonable adjustment, or that the application process was misleading. She said that Tesco 
doesnt consider  credit  referencing sources, although it says it does. She said we hadnt  
commented on her not being given the detailed reasons for refusing  the card, or Tescos 
initial refusal to confirm that ESA wasnt  an acceptable income source.  
Miss B said that Tesco didnt reconsider her application properly when her income 
increased. And we hadnt explained  why her credit score had now declined.
Miss B wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator.
Im aware Miss B feels her complaint hasnt been  fully considered. Just because something  
isnt specifically mentioned, doesnt mean  that it hasnt been  thought  about  carefully,  
including before a complaint comes to an ombudsman  to make a final decision (and in my 
summary of the background  above).
As I know Miss B is concerned about  this, I hope shell accept that Ive tried to cover  as 
many of her points in this response. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I want to reassure Miss 
B that Ive thought very carefully about everything  shes said about  this matter.
Miss B hasnt chosen to discuss her disability in detail  with us. But she has shown us that 
she receives an additional element of ESA as a disability income guarantee. I accept, for 
purposes of this complaint, that Miss B would  be considered to be disabled for the purposes 
of the relevant equality law.
Miss B also told us that Tesco had refused to make reasonable  adjustment for her. Shed  
asked it to communicate with her by email. Tesco told us that it didnt do that, because  it 
didnt think that email communication is secure.  I think that emails can be secured, so I dont 
think that would be a reason for a business to refuse to send emails  to its customers. But I 
also understand that secure email communication  isnt available to everyone as it can 
require specific software or processes. I note that Tesco has now found a way to deal with 
complaints by email,  so this hopefully wont be a problem for Miss B in future.
But at the time that Miss B asked Tesco to communicate with her by email, Tesco didnt  do 
that for everyone.  If Miss B wanted  Tesco to send her emails, then I think its reasonable to 
expect her to tell Tesco why this would help with her disability, so that it knows  why shes 
asking it to make that adjustment. It doesnt seem as if Miss B told Tesco that. And when we 
asked her about this, she said that she didnt want to tell our service about this either.  
I understand that discussing  the details of a disability can be a very personal and sensitive 
issue. But without any information  on how this would help Miss B, I dont think that I could 
fairly criticise  Tesco for not putting email  communications  in place for her as a reasonable 
adjustment. So, because I dont have  that information, I dont think Im able to say that Tesco  
did anything wrong  by refusing to email Miss B. 
Ref: DRN79850824Miss B said that Tescos application  process and its eligibility criteria were both misleading, 
as they didnt explain in detail how benefits would be treated, and which ones would be 
disregarded. But I think that Tesco has to find a balance between  providing sufficient detail 
for applicants to have  an idea whether  theyre likely to be approved, and keeping that detail 
sufficiently short that its manageable for applicants to read. I think that providing high level 
information at that stage  is an acceptable  approach. So I dont think  Tesco did anything  
wrong by not providing an explanation of how benefits income would  be treated at that point.
Miss B said she didnt believe that her application was turned down at first because  of her 
address. But Ive seen Tescos internal  application pages, and Im satisfied that her 
application was initially turned down  because of the address format.  Miss B said that couldnt 
be right,  shed used  Tescos own address  finder. But I think the problem happened because  
the address format that Tesco uses on its applications website didnt match the format  of her 
address at the credit reference agency that Tesco was consulting. 
This isnt an unusual thing to happen,  particularly with certain address types,  including  
addresses that have  a flat number in them. Theres no standardised format  for these 
addresses. So it can cause a problem,  for instance if the bank has an address with the flat 
number and house number on the same line, but the credit reference agency shows  the flat 
number and the house number on different  lines. Credit reference agencies  know about  this 
problem, and the situation is improving  over time, as the software that matches  address  
types is getting better. But problems like this do still happen from time to time. I dont think  
what went wrong here is likely to be Tescos fault,  or a deliberate action on its part.
I know that Tesco sorted out this issue with Miss Bs address.  That meant that her 
application was no longer  declined. But it wasnt  just accepted  either. It was referred for 
further consideration instead. I think that happened  because Miss B said that she was 
unemployed, but she told Tesco that her income was higher  than Tesco would expect for an 
unemployed person. I think Tesco was entitled to ask extra questions about  where  Miss B 
got her income  from at this point. Its said that it can sometimes  lend to people who are 
unemployed, but draw an income  from a trust fund or rental properties. I dont think Tesco 
did anything wrong  when it asked Miss B about  where her income  was from. 
When Tesco  found out that some  of Miss Bs income came  from ESA,  it said that it wouldnt 
include that amount  of money when it considered Miss Bs total income for lending purposes.  
And her remaining income wasnt enough for her to be given the card account.  So it turned 
down her application. 
Miss B thinks that this is discrimination arising  from her disability. 
I dont think Tesco is treating Miss B differently because of her disability. Thats direct 
discrimination, and I dont  think  thats what Tesco is doing. But I also need  to consider if 
Tesco is discriminating against her because of something connected to her disability.
Under section 15 of the Equality Act 2010,  "discrimination arising  from disability" occurs 
where both: 
A treats B unfavourably  because of something  arising in consequence  of Bs 
disability.
A cannot show that the treatment is a proportionate  means of achieving  a legitimate 
aim.
Ref: DRN79850825I need to consider the relevant law when I reach  my decision. So I do need  to think about 
whether this law may have been breached in this case. 
The test for whether an issue is something  arising in consequence of [in this case, Miss Bs] 
disability seems to me to be very loosely drawn.  So I dont think that I can rule out that 
Miss Bs income from ESA is something  arising in consequence of her disability.  If her 
income from ESA is something arising in consequence of her disability,  then Tesco ought to 
explain why its treatment  of Miss B is a proportionate means of achieving  a legitimate aim. 
Tesco has said that it doesnt consider ESA a source of income  which is acceptable for 
lending purposes. It says that what underlies  this, is that it wants  to make sure that anyone it 
lends money to, can afford to pay that back.  I think thats potentially a legitimate aim.
Tesco says that benefits which are related to employment are harder to replace than other 
benefits. But Miss B has pointed out that she isnt expected to look for work, as one of the 
conditions of the ESA she receives.  So its not clear to me that excluding  ESA because  its 
an employment related  benefit would be a proportionate means of achieving  a legitimate 
aim, in these  circumstances. 
But Tesco also says that there is some  uncertainty with the current  benefits system, and in 
particular the introduction  of Universal  Credit.  Tesco says that the benefits, like ESA, which it 
doesnt accept  are also ones which could be subject  to change.
I think that is a reasonable point for Tesco to make. I understand that ESA is due to be 
replaced by a different benefit.  So I think its reasonable for Tesco to say that there is, 
unfortunately, some uncertainty  about the future  of ESA.  Not considering  the income from 
ESA for lending  purpose,  in these circumstances,  could  be a proportionate means  of 
achieving a legitimate aim.
Im not able to say for certain that the Act hasnt been breached  in this case. The law in this 
area is complicated, and Im not an expert in it. But I think  its possible that Tesco  could 
potentially argue that what  its doing could be a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim, of making  sure the person taking out the loan is in a position  to pay it back.
Because I cant rule that out, I dont think I can base my decision on the assumption that 
Tesco breached  the relevant law when it refused to take Miss Bs ESA income  into account 
when it was considering her for a loan.
Miss B then said that Tesco didnt reconsider her application properly when she told it that 
her income had increased. It seems as if Miss B has reached  this view because her revised 
application was declined within a couple of minutes. But a decision on lending  is usually a 
very straightforward process for a lender. Making  a decision quickly doesnt  mean  that it 
hasnt been considered fully. I havent  seen anything  to make me think that Tesco  didnt 
consider Miss Bs credit  applications properly.
Miss B also said Tesco couldnt be considering credit referencing  sources,  although it says it 
does. But I think that Tesco  is unlikely to be taking decisions like this without consulting  a 
credit reference agency. And if it wasnt doing  that, then the problem with Miss Bs address 
wouldnt have been likely  to occur.  But the information from a credit  reference agency is only 
one part of what Tesco will consider  when its deciding who to lend money to. So having  a 
good score wouldnt mean that Miss B would automatically be accepted.  
Ref: DRN79850826Miss B told us that shed asked for detailed reasons why she was turned down for credit, and 
hadnt been given them. But I think that Tesco  has said why her applications were refused. I 
know that Miss B has questioned those reasons, so I hope Ive explained why Ive accepted 
them. Miss B also queried Tescos  initial refusal to confirm  that ESA wasnt  an acceptable 
income source. I think that if this was a mistake by Tesco, then it has now put this right by 
explaining its decision-making  to her. I think that Tesco has given  Miss B sufficient 
information about the decisions  its made in her case. 
Miss B has also told us that her credit score  has gone down since  she made this application. 
A number  of things can affect someones credit  score. In this case, it is possible that just 
making an application for a credit card could have reduced Miss Bs credit  score.  When 
someone applies for lending, the lender will usually run a credit check, and the check itself 
will be noted  on a credit file. That can cause a credit score to dip for a short  while. But if 
thats whats happened in Miss Bs case,  then that wouldnt be Tescos fault. It doesnt 
decide Miss Bs credit score. The score is set by each credit reference agency.  So, both 
because a number  of other things can affect a credit score,  and because Tesco itself doesnt  
decide a credit score, I dont think it would be fair on what  Ive seen in this case  to hold 
Tesco responsible  for changes  to that score. 
Ive considered everything that Miss B has said in this complaint carefully.  And I appreciate 
that she feels very strongly  about what Tesco has done in this case. But Ive not been able 
to agree with her that her application ought  to have been approved,  or that Tesco has 
discriminated against her. I know that Miss B will be disappointed, but Im not upholding her 
complaint. Im sorry that we cant help Miss B further on this matter as my decision brings  to 
an end what we, in trying to resolve her dispute  with Tesco informally, can do.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7985082