K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs F took out the PPI policy in 1997  when they applied  for their mortgage. 
Nationwide cant confirm  where the sale took place, Mr and Mrs F recall it was in a meeting 
and I think thats  most likely. The policy was in Mrs Fs sole name and gave her 
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it. They took out a decreasing term 
life assurance policy  at the same time and have raised a complaint about this sale too. This 
final decision  covers solely the sale of the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities   so, on what  I 
consider is most likely given the available evidence and what  we know about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. I cant know what was discussed during the sale. Mr and Mrs F say they 
felt under pressure  to take out the policy. Nationwide doesnt have their paperwork from the 
sale, but thats not surprising or unreasonable given  how long ago the sale was. I have 
thought carefully  about Mr and Mrs Fs comments,  but I have to take into account  how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what they recall. I have looked at their complaint 
letter from the time of the sale but that relates  to the sale of the life assurance. And I havent  
found enough evidence to conclude  they were pressured to buy PPI. Overall, without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly uphold their complaint on this point.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs F so it didnt have  to check  the 
policy was right for Mrs F. Mr and Mrs F feel strongly that it was recommended  to them. 
However, I dont need to make a finding on this point as even if Nationwide had 
recommended the policy  I think it was right for Mrs F. I say this because  it offered her up to 
12 months redundancy cover and shes told us they had no further savings at the time. So I 
think it wouldve have been  useful for Mr and Mrs F if Mrs F lost her job. And as they were 
paying for it monthly, they could cancel  it if Mrs Fs situation changed or she no longer 
wanted it.
Nationwide also had to give Mr and Mrs F enough  information so they could decide for 
themselves whether they wanted to buy it. Its possible the information the society  gave
Ref: DRN78148842Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think  they 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say this 
because:
Mrs F was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Mrs F wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, such  
as those on certain types  of employment  contract. As she couldve benefitted from the 
full extent of the cover,  I think it unlikely she needed better  information  about the policys  
exclusions and limitations. 
I dont know when  the cost was made  clear  but the policy  was competitively priced  and 
apparently affordable.  
In summary,  it seems  Mr and Mrs F chose  to take out the policy for Mrs F and so appear to 
have wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different  decision if 
better information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have  taken out the 
policy.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7814884