K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Tilney Financial Planning Limited,  failed to provide  ongoing  
advice in respect of their investment  bond.
background
Mr and Mrs D had an investment bond, which they took out in 2008 following advice from a 
predecessor firm. The investment was held by third party product providers. The advice 
service passed through a series of advisers moving  to Tilney in 2016, who took over the 
liability of part of their predecessor from 2014. Mr and Mrs D say they did not receive 
ongoing advice  in respect of their investments. They raise concern that Tilney  accessed their 
investments and say they have lost out by not receiving advice about their investment and 
by being charged  fees for the advice they didnt receive.
Mr and Mrs D recall being sent an introduction letter from Tilneys predecessor  in 2014,  but 
nothing further.  They believe  the terms of business were signed  and returned. As a result  of 
contact between Tilney and Mr and Mrs Ds representative, the parties met in February 
2018. Tilney say they had Mr and Mrs Ds details as the data migrated to their system from 
the predecessor  firm but Mr and Mrs D didnt sign new terms of business in 2014. As a 
result, an ongoing  adviser service wasnt provided  to them. Following  contact with the third-
party platform provider in 2018, it became clear that an annual  0.75% adviser  fee hadnt 
been paid from the investment, as set out in the terms  of the original  adviser agreement. The 
platform provider made a payment of £16,527.13 to Tilney for fees dating back  to 2012 
(including those  due to Tilneys  predecessor); the payment was made in June 2018.
Initially, Tilney  didnt  uphold the complaint as there was some  confusion as to whether the 
sums held by the platform provider were commission or adviser  fees. Once it became 
apparent that adviser fees had been deducted  from the investment, Tilney  offered to refund 
them, as they accepted  that advice wasnt given during  the period 2014-2018.  Theyve  
offered to refund the fees taken from the investment and work with the product provider to 
reverse the deductions so as to put Mr and Mrs D in the position as if the fees hadnt been  
paid. In addition,  theyve offered to pay Mr and Mrs D £300 to compensate for the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused.
Our investigator thought that the offer from Tilney was fair and reasonable. She thought it 
was unlikely that the terms of business  had been  signed and returned by Mr and Mrs D and 
took into account there was no contact between the parties until February 2018. In her view 
there wasnt an obligation on Tilney to provide  advice and accordingly, it was fair and 
reasonable for Tilney to refund the payment for a service they didnt provide. She thought it 
was fair to refund the fees paid from the product provider and to take steps to put Mr and 
Mrs Ds investment in the position as if the deductions hadnt been  made. Further, she felt 
that the offer for trouble  and upset was fair and reasonable. As it had also been suggested 
there was a data breach, our investigator directed Mr and Mrs D to the Information  
Commissioners Office.
Mr and Mrs D do not agree with the view. Its said on their behalf  that terms of business were 
returned but later correspondence wasnt received. As Tilney  took the fees paid by the 
product provider and had access  to information about the investments held by Mr and Mrs D, 
its said they must have  thought they had a relationship with Mr and Mrs D. The 
representative says that the offer doesnt  fairly compensate for losses  Mr and Mrs D have 
sustained by Tilney failing to provide financial planning and investment advice.
Ref: DRN71301082The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain our remit at the outset. We provide  an independent, informal  
dispute resolution service;  we have no disciplinary or regulatory role. That means we have 
no power to fine a business  or to direct  them to change the way they operate. Where  we find 
that something has gone wrong, we assess compensation on a fair and reasonable basis.
There is some agreement  between the parties about  this complaint. Its agreed that no 
advice was provided to Mr and Mrs D between 2014  and 2018. Further, its agreed  that Mr 
and Mrs D didnt contact  Tilney between 2014  and 2018. And the adviser fees werent paid 
to Tilney until 2018. Its common ground that Mr and Mrs D paid for a service they didnt  
receive.
I appreciate with the passage of time it is likely  that memories will have faded as to what  was 
received and signed. Mr and Mrs D recall  receiving a welcome letter  and think they sent 
back the terms and conditions of business for a new adviser in 2014.  Ive seen a copy of the 
welcome letter that was likely sent at the time, it explained that Mr and Mrs D would need 
to complete and sign new financial planning  terms and conditions  that would be sent out 
in the days to follow. The letter went on to state,  "Unfortunately, if you dont sign and 
return the new terms, we will not be able to provide the service  to you."
Tilney say that Mr and Mrs Ds details transferred to their database automatically when they 
took over the predecessor  firm but no active steps  could be taken until the terms of 
business were signed.  As the investments were  held with third party  product providers and 
Tilney didnt receive a response, it was assumed that Mr and Mrs D didnt wish to take up 
the advisory service.
I dont underestimate  Mr and Mrs Ds strength of feeling  about  this matter, but I havent 
seen any evidence from either party to show that new terms of business were signed in 
2014 or later. I have considered the comments raised by Mr and Mrs Ds representative, but 
in my view,  it is relevant  that Mr and Mrs D took no steps to ask for the advice they now say 
they believed  they should have received. Ive seen that they received annual statements 
from the product  provider,  so did have access to information about the performance of the 
investment.
Concern has been raised that Tilney  obtained  information about Mr and Mrs Ds 
investments before a meeting in February  2018. There doesnt  appear to have been a 
material impact  on Mr and Mrs D as a result of this but as our investigator has explained, it 
is outside the remit of this service to make a finding  about data breach.
The central issue in this complaint is that Mr and Mrs D ended  up paying  for a service  they 
didnt receive. Its understandable that the deduction  in 2018 came  as a surprise  to them. 
So, I agree  it is fair and reasonable  for this situation  to be put right.
Putting things right
Ref: DRN71301083Its suggested on Mr and Mrs Ds behalf  that theyve lost out financially by not receiving  
ongoing advice.  They think Tilney should  do more  than refund the fees. But no information 
has been advanced to show that the investments they held with the third-party  product  
providers were unsuitable for them.  Mr and Mrs D didnt make any contact during  that four-
year period  to say their circumstances or objectives had changed.  I cant  fairly say now what 
would have happened had there been a review  during the 2014-2018  period. Even  if 
alternative investments  had been  recommended, I cant now say how well they would have 
performed and Id have  to factor in the cost of fees Mr and Mrs D would have had to pay for 
that advice, so its also possible they could  have been left in a worse  position. 
But I agree  Mr and Mrs D lost out in being  charged  for a service  they didnt receive. Tilney 
have offered to refund  the fees theyve received  dating back to 2012, to the platform 
provider. Tilney have  said theyll take steps  to work with the platform provider who will 
reverse the sale transactions so as to put Mr and Mrs D in the same  position as if the fees 
hadnt been deducted from their investments. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in the same position as if 
the fees deductions had never been made.  Im pleased to see Tilney have offered to do that. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this means the fees should be refunded, with any holdings sold 
to pay for those fees, being repurchased.  Mr and Mrs D should also be compensated for any 
growth theyve missed out on as a result  of the deductions, from the date the fees were  
deducted to the date of settlement. 
 
I appreciate that the representative has said he was compensated differently to 
Mr and Mrs D, but we consider each  case on its own particular facts and the representatives  
relationship with Tilney  differed.
I understand that Mr and Mrs D have  been caused inconvenience  and distress  by Tilneys 
initial response to their complaint. Tilney have acknowledged their delay in making  an offer 
and have apologised for any distress  caused. In my view it is fair and reasonable to provide 
compensation and I agree  that £300 is fair in the circumstances. Ive not sought to increase 
this award as theres nothing to show that Mr and Mrs D suffered distress  and inconvenience 
during the period they didnt receive  advice.  Thats supported by their lack of contact with 
Tilney.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs D but I wont be asking Tilney to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I consider that the offer made by Tilney Financial Planning Limited  is 
fair and reasonable and I direct them to pay that compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7130108