K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs H say Cumberland Building  Society (Cumberland) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And Cumberland told us that the 
commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than 50% of what  they paid, so it didnt need  to 
pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Cumberland didnt need  to tell Mr 
and Mrs H about the commission it received - so Cumberland doesnt need to pay back any 
of the commission  Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI.. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Ref: DRN74949052I think Cumberland made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Cumberland has provided some if not all of 
the paperwork from the time of the sale. Looking  at this I can see that Mr and Mrs H 
were asked  in a section of their mortgage application if they wanted  PPI. And they both 
ticked the Yes box to say they wanted cover. There was an equally prominent No box 
they could have ticked if they didnt  want to arrange cover.  They also both signed  this 
section of the application  a separate signature to the overall mortgage application they 
signed. 
In addition Mr and Mrs H completed and signed  a separate PPI application  so I dont 
think they would have been  under the impression that they had to have PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr and Mrs H chose to take out PPI and likely did 
so without undue pressure.
Mr and Mrs H said they couldnt  remember if they received advice. But Cumberland  says 
it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H - so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example  Mr and Mrs H 
were both eligible  for the cover and although they had existing means  in the form of 
some sick pay (around six months full pay followed by a period  of 60% pay) they still 
seem to have had a need for cover. The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months 
per claim, which was longer than either of their full sick pay would have  lasted. So the 
policy would have  allowed them to preserve  their sick pay or use it for other ongoing  
household expenditure. The policy was also protecting their mortgage and ultimately 
their home, so I think they would have found  the policy useful had the insured  risks 
become a reality  for either  of them (according to Cumberland  Mr and Mrs H made  a 
successful claim,  so it appears  they did in fact make use of it.)
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And Although  Mr H says he had a medical  condition  a 
short time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Cumberland  to 
have recommended it. I say this because Mr H disclosed his medical  condition  to 
Cumberland at the time, so it appears  it was taken into account in any advice that was 
given. There are handwritten notes  on the application, which give the details of Mr Hs 
condition and they go on to say: ...now  discharged no further problems. It appears that 
Mr H had an operation  which was the treatment  to cure his condition.
In light of this and because the policy only excluded Mr H from making  a claim for his 
condition for the first twelve  months  of cover in any event, I dont think  it was wrong  for 
Cumberland to have  recommended  the cover  I think the policy  was ultimately suitable 
for Mr and Mrs H. As a final point, I note that there were also no additional restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible some of the information  Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been   albeit I note the PPI application disclosed the cost, 
the benefit as well as the excess period . But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN74949053The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs H as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were  buying from the information they 
were given. And at around £25 a month it also looks like it was affordable  so it seems  
like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.  Because  of this I dont 
think Mr and Mrs H would  have declined the cover had Cumberland done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would  have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Cumberland should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Hs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Cumberland  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Cumberland didnt  need to disclose the commission  it received,  
so Cumberland  doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN74949054In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs H should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Cumberland  failed to tell Mr and Mrs H about  the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund  of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Cumberland has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was 
less than half of what they paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Cumberland  has 
worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and 
Mrs Hs case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Cumberland  needed to tell Mr and Mrs H about  the commission. So it follows  
that I dont  think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Cumberland 
treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. 
This means  Cumberland  doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back  any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Cumberland Building  Society didnt need to disclose  the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7494905