K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of limited  company M that Santander UK Plc should have made 
more effort  to contact  it, before  transferring  funds  from its business account  to the 
Bona Vacantia Office.
As Mr S has raised the complaint on behalf of M, Ill refer to him directly in my decision.
background
M held a business  account with Santander. Santander  became aware  in June 2018 that M 
was dissolved.  It wrote  to Mr S and told him of its intention to close the account and pass 
any credit  funds to the Treasury Solicitor.
In August  2018,  Santander passed  the funds to the Treasury Solicitor. Mr S discovered there 
were no funds in the account and complained to Santander. He says he didnt receive the 
letter regarding the funds, and thought Santander should have done more  to contact him 
before doing so.
Santander rejected  the complaint. It said it sent a letter to the recorded address and it wasnt  
part of its process to do anything more. Unhappy  with Santanders response, Mr S referred 
the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She thought  Santander had 
done enough to make Mr S aware  of its intentions to transfer the funds, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  And she didnt think it needed to do more to communicate this 
to Mr S.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed  to 
me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why below.
Its a legal obligation for a bank to transfer  any companys assets when its dissolved. Ive 
checked the terms and conditions of the account  and they state the account may be closed 
where we are aware that keeping  your account open would be unlawful or cause Us to be in 
breach of any of Our legal or regulatory requirements. So Im satisfied Santander acted in 
line with that. However, Ive also considered  whether Santander gave Mr S enough notice of 
its intention to do this.
I want to reassure Mr S Ive considered the points  hes raised  in response to our 
investigators opinion.  But having looked  at everything on file I cant  see that Santanders 
acted incorrectly here.  
Santander says it sent a letter to Mr S when it found out the company was dissolved, and its 
provided a copy of this. I can see it sent it to the recorded address on file so I dont think  its 
Santanders fault if Mr S didnt receive this. 
Ref: DRN71217182Mr S says Santander should have tried alternative  methods of communication,  such  as 
phoning or sending a registered letter. 
In response to this complaint, Santander has said its not part of its current  process to place 
calls to companies, and its the directors responsibility to ensure  any assets are dealt with 
prior to insolvency. And in my opinion, its actions were reasonable based  on what  it knew  
about M at the time.  Im satisfied Santander sent a letter  to the recorded address and I dont 
think its done anything  wrong.
Mr S said that insufficient care was taken given the amount of funds in the account. But I 
dont think this matters.  At the time Santander wrote to Mr S, M was dissolved, and so the 
funds were already  marked as assets of the Crown, and not of M. 
So whilst I appreciate  Santanders actions have cased Mr S some difficulty, I dont  think  it 
needed to do anything more as it followed its process in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
M, to accept or reject my decision  before 27 March 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7121718