K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains, with the help of a representative,  that he has suffered a loss as a result of
his guaranteed transfer value date not being met. He believes FIL Retirement Services
Limited (FRS)  may have caused  this because it did not complete all the ceding schemes
paperwork in time.
background
On 26 October 2015, a transfer out member statement was issued to Mr L from his
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) with a transfer value of £785,910, which  was
guaranteed until 26 January 2016.  This said:
The transfer value has been calculated  using a method and basis  determined by the
trustees, after taking  advice from the scheme  actuary. It is guaranteed  until
26 January 2016.  If the member wishes to take the guaranteed amount, his written
application to transfer must be received by [name of scheme administrators] by that
date.
The members right to take the guaranteed amount will be lost (and the transfer  will
not be able to proceed) if [name of scheme  administrators]  does not receive his
written application  to transfer correctly completed and signed, by 26 January 2016.
The member  will not then be able to apply for a further guaranteed  transfer  value
until 30 September 2016.
In exceptional  circumstances, the transfer  value could be reduced before the
guarantee expires. The member will be notified if this occurs.
Mr Ls OPS was taken over/bought out, this completed on 31 December 2015 and as a
result all open transfers were nullified. Mr L says he was not informed about this until
18 January 2016.
On 20 January 2016, Mr L emailed FRS to confirm he had sent it the paperwork, he said:
The documents  were  posted back to you on Monday,  so should be with you today. I 
called [name  of individual] at [name of scheme  administrators] to advise her and to 
say that I hoped everything  would be ok for the 27.01.2016 validity of their Transfer  
Valueshe said that they would do a revaluationwhich should not be dissimilar to 
the earlier one (lets  see) as since completion of the Guarantee (which  I assume  to 
be the formal  taking over of the previous [name of scheme administrators] obligations 
by [name  of scheme  administrators] recalculations  are undertaken monthly.
FRS received the application forms from Mr L on 21 January 2016. It advised him on the
same day and submitted  some paperwork to the ceding scheme,  including:
The financial adviser certificate confirming advice had been given
Transfer application form
Member information form
A certified copy of Mr Ls identification  document
The letter confirmed:
Ref: DRN77738842your transfer paperwork   a copy of your forms have been sent to the relevant
department within [name  of receiving scheme] for completion, which will be sent to 
you in due course.
Under Personal Pension Plan  Additional Information Form, asking for information from the
receiving scheme, it was noted that:
For the Trustees of the [name of scheme] to consider [Mr Ls full name] request to
transfer his benefits from [name of scheme] to the personal pension  plan they wish to
transfer to (the receiving  scheme), please provide ALL of the information and
supporting documents detailed below. The Trustees  of the [name  of scheme] will not
be able to consider  [Mr Ls full name]  transfer  request until ALL of the requested
information is provided.
This had to be signed by the receiving  scheme.
Also, on the 21 January 2016,  FRS wrote to the receiving scheme asking it to complete the
receiving scheme forms, amongst other  things  it confirmed:
Please note that there is a CETV  that expires 27th January,  so please process the
paperwork as soon  as possible  so they are under notice of transfer.
FRS has provided evidence that the paperwork it sent was received by the ceding scheme
on 22 January 2016, although this does not appear  to have been processed by it at that
point.
On 27 January 2016, FRS was informed that the transfer quotation  had been  nullified and
the guarantee did not apply.
The receiving scheme wrote to the OPS, the cover letter was dated on 28 January 2016,  it
confirmed that it enclosed completed  discharge  forms  authorising it to go ahead with the
transfer but said it was not its policy to complete transfer forms from other  pension  providers.
The relevant  form was ultimately  completed, and supporting documentation provided, this
was signed on 2 February 2016.
The ceding  scheme received the completed  paperwork from the receiving scheme on
4 February 2016.
The transfer value  received was £765,249,  a reduction of around £20,000. The transfer 
value was paid to the receiving scheme on 5 February 2016.
Mr L complained that it was FRS fault that he received a lower transfer value because  it
failed to ensure  that the paperwork was completed  by the deadline  of 26 January 2016.
On 4 December  2018, FRS responded to the complaint explaining why it did not uphold  the
complaint.
Unhappy with its response Mr L referred  his complaint to this service.
In its submissions to this service FRS said:
Ref: DRN77738843Information specified as needed  to secure the guaranteed transfer value  was 
submitted before  the deadline   the ceding scheme just wanted confirmation  that 
FRS was in no way affiliated with the scheme.
The scheme had misinterpreted the legislation and thought that FRS could not be 
affiliated with the receiving  scheme rather than the ceding scheme.
The ceding scheme confirmed during telephone calls with FRS that it had everything 
it needed.
The forms needed to effect the transfer included a transfer out member statement in 
relation to securing the transfer value it only specified that the Mr Ls written 
application to transfer needed  to be submitted by the deadline.
It does not state that the receiving  scheme  declaration was also required to secure 
the transfer value.
The application  to proceed with the transfer was received by the scheme before the 
deadline.
It is standard practice for firms arranging a transfer to secure the transfer value first 
by submitting the application form and then anything else required to process the 
transfer can be submitted after that.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint, she concluded that FRS was not
responsible for the delay in the submission of the necessary paperwork for the transfer  and
so did not need to compensate Mr L for the drop in the transfer  value.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He felt that either FRS or the ceding
scheme had to be at fault, but the complaints raised against have both not been upheld.
We have been  provided with a copy of the decision  reached on the complaint against  the
ceding scheme by The Pensions Ombudsman.  It found that:
The ceding scheme failed to inform  either  Mr L or FRS that the transfer value would 
nullified, which resulted  in Mr L suffering distress and inconvenience  when he found 
out the transfer value would be recalculated once the paperwork was completed.
Not all of the completed paperwork was received by the ceding  scheme  by the 
deadline of 26 January 2016.
The query about the independence  of FRS may not have  been  necessary but it did 
not delay the transfer.
The ceding scheme was entitled to require Mr L to comply with its normal  transfer 
process.
To comply with Chapter 1, Part 4ZA of the Pension Schemes Act 1993 Section 95 the 
receiving scheme  needs to provide  its details  and confirm it is willing to accept the 
transfer, so it is not unreasonable  for the ceding  scheme to have  required  the 
completion of the personal pension scheme  transfer declaration form and the 
personal pension  plan  additional  information form. This information was not 
provided before the deadline.
So, its offer of £1,000 was sufficient for compensate Mr L for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not informing him in advance  that the transfer value would 
be nullified and recalculated was sufficient.
Because agreement  could  not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for review. I sent 
my provisional decision to Mr L and FRS explaining  why I didnt  think the complaint should 
be upheld. I said that I would consider anything either party wanted to add. Neither party 
made new material submissions, but Mr L did express his disappointment.  Because no new 
Ref: DRN77738844evidence or submissions were received my findings remain as set out in my provisional 
decision, I have  reiterated these below.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
I understand that Mr L feels strongly that one of the parties involved must  be responsible for
the reduction in the transfer value  of his OPS. I understand that this will come as a
disappointment to Mr L, but I am not persuaded that this complaint should  be upheld.
Based on the information available, the guaranteed  transfer value was nullified on
31 December 2015 and, from that point,  was always going to be recalculated once the
transfer paperwork was submitted.  It does appear  that Mr L was not informed about this until
18 January 2016  but  based on his email of 20 January  2016   Mr L was made aware of
this and was going to go ahead with the transfer knowing that the transfer  value would be
recalculated. In particular,  he said:
she said that they would do a revaluationwhich should  not be dissimilar to the
earlier one (lets see) as since completion of the Guarantee (which I assume to be
the formal taking over of the previous [name of scheme administrators] obligations by
[name of scheme administrators] recalculations are undertaken monthly.
So, I am not persuaded that the timing  of the submission of the necessary paperwork was
the cause of the drop in transfer value. Looking at the decision reached in the complaint
against the ceding scheme, it is possible that Mr L may have been able to make  a claim to
receive the full guaranteed transfer value if all of the paperwork had been submitted by the
deadline. I cannot comment on the potential  merits of any such  claim as this is not
something that this service could consider and it would not be appropriate  for me to make  a
definitive finding as to what The Pensions  Ombudsman would have concluded  if all of the
paperwork had been submitted before 26 January 2016.
Ref: DRN77738845I have still gone  on to consider what FRS ought to have known needed to be submitted by
the 26 January  2016.
There does appear  to have been some confusion in terms of the deadline. Both Mr L and
FRS refer to the deadline as being 27 January 2016 (a day after the actual deadline)  but the
paperwork submitted  by FRS was received by the ceding scheme before the deadline and
the paperwork submitted  by the receiving scheme  was received after the 27 January 2016
so, I dont think this error was material to what happened in this instance.
In terms of what was needed  to secure  the guaranteed  transfer  value, the transfer out
member statement said:
It is guaranteed until 26 January 2016.  If the member  wishes  to take the guaranteed
amount, his written  application to transfer  must  be received  by [name of scheme
administrators] by that.
The members right to take the guaranteed amount will be lost (and the transfer  will
not be able to proceed) if [name of scheme  administrators]  does not receive his
written application  to transfer correctly completed and signed, by 26 January 2016.
The member  will not then be able to apply for a further guaranteed  transfer  value
until 30 September 2016.
The application form was submitted by the deadline  and there  does not appear to have been
any suggestion by the ceding  scheme  that Mr L would have to wait until September 2016 to
apply again. The transfer went ahead in February  2016.
Some of the other paperwork, namely  the forms that needed to be completed  by the
receiving scheme and the supporting  documentation was not provided by the deadline.
Within that paperwork  it was confirmed that:
For the Trustees of the [name of scheme] to consider [Mr Ls full name] request to
transfer his benefits from [name of scheme] to the personal pension  plan they wish to
transfer to (the receiving  scheme), please provide ALL of the information and
supporting documents detailed below. The Trustees  of the [name  of scheme] will not
be able to consider  [Mr Ls full name]  transfer  request until ALL of the requested
information is provided.
From these I think it is clear that the application form had to be submitted for the guaranteed
transfer value  to be secured and that for the all of the paperwork and supporting
documentation had to be submitted for the trustees of the scheme to consider the request to
transfer. I think it is debatable whether or not it was sufficiently  clear that all of the paperwork
had to be submitted  by the 26 January 2016 to secure the guaranteed transfer value as
opposed to it being needed for the trustees to consider and effect the transfer.  In any case, 
FRS dealt with the paperwork,  advised  Mr L and sent the paperwork it had to submit  to the
ceding scheme all on the same  day it received  the paperwork. Also, on the same day it 
referred the paperwork that had to be completed by the receiving scheme to it and 
highlighted that:
Please note that there is a CETV  that expires 27th January,  so please process the
paperwork as soon  as possible  so they are under notice of transfer.
The date given is one day after the actual deadline  but for the reasons set out above, I dont
Ref: DRN77738846think this is material. Taking everything  into account, I think  that FRS undertook all of the
activities that were its responsibility promptly and highlighted to the receiving scheme that it
needed to process  the paperwork as soon as possible  in light of the deadline.
Overall, I am not persuaded that FRS delayed the transfer or that its actions resulted in the
reduction in Mr Ls transfer  value.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint  and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7773884