K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr W took out a car insurance policy with Admiral in 2017. He was paying the premium in 
monthly direct debit instalments. He was insured  on the basis  that he had a provisional UK 
licence.
During a number of calls with Admiral  over 9 and 13 March 2018, he replaced  his original car 
with another one. During those calls his no claims bonus (NCB)  status was also discussed. 
He said he had over 30 years of claim free driving abroad. Admiral told him they would only 
accept a maximum of 10 years NCB. On 13 March 2018, Admiral agreed  to accept Mr W 
had 10 years NCB on the condition that he would  get proof of his NCB and supply it to 
Admiral at a future date.  Mr W agreed to obtain  and provide proof  of his NCB. Admiral  
confirmed that as of 13 March 2018,  when his policy was amended  to cover his new car, the 
NCB discount was applied  and that it resulted in a discount to his premium. 
Admiral told Mr W that as a result of the discount  he was given for the NCB, his premium 
and monthly instalments remained  the same. In other words, changing the policy  over to the 
new car didnt cost him anything more.
On 20 March 2018, Mr W went  onto Admirals website and made some changes  to his 
policy. He stated that he got a full UK licence two months earlier. Admiral  amended  his 
policy and emailed him amended documentation.  They told him the change  in his licence  
from provisional to full meant his premium for the remainder of the policy year would cost an 
additional £126.43. Admiral also told Mr W that they had amended  his direct debit 
instalments so that the additional  cost would be spread over the remainder of his payments.
Mr W called  Admiral on 21 March 2018. He said he went onto their website the day before to 
test its functionality and to get a quote to see how much his policy would cost when he 
does get a full licence.  He said his licence hadnt  changed and that there was a mistake.  He 
said the website  wasnt working properly. Admiral  said that if Mr W hadnt yet obtained a full 
licence, they could amend the policy to go back  to how it was. Mr W said he wanted that to 
happen. But Admiral said before they would do that, they wanted confirmation from the 
DVLA as to what licence  Mr W held. They told him there was a process on the DVLAs  
website called share my licence which Mr W would have  to go through. But Mr W refused 
to do that and asked for his policy to be cancelled immediately. But later during the 
cancellation process Mr W said he wasnt going  to cancel his policy after all.
But the subsequent direct debits from Mr Ws account stopped, as I understand he cancelled 
them. Admiral sent him a number of reminders and warned him the policy would be 
cancelled unless payment was made. But as no payment was made, on 8 May 2018, 
Admiral cancelled the policy.
Mr W complained  because  he didnt  think Admiral had treated him fairly. But Admiral  didnt 
uphold his complaint. Mr W didnt think that was fair so he brought his complaint to our 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into it. He felt that Admiral had dealt with Mr W fairly.  
As Mr W didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN71847352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr W, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ws points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus  on what  I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Admiral have dealt  with Mr W in a fair 
and reasonable way.
the change to Mr Ws policy and its cancellation
Admiral have told us that there were no known problems with their website on 20 March 
2018. But Mr W has told us that the website froze. But I dont think thats relevant. What is 
relevant is that as a result  of Mr W going onto the website, Admiral  were led to believe that 
his licence status had changed  from having a provisional licence  to having had a full licence 
for the past two months. That is an important  factor that all insurers  I know of take into 
consideration as part of their risk ratings (what they base their premiums  on) which can often 
lead to an increase  in premium. And Admiral  were entitled to ask for proof of Mr Ws licence 
details.
I have listened  to the call Mr W had with Admiral  on 21 March  2018. Mr W was asked  very 
clearly whether or not his licence status  had changed. He said it hadnt and that he didnt 
have a full licence. But Mr W has confirmed  to our service that at the time he told Admiral 
that he didnt have a full licence, he did in fact have a full licence. I have also seen an email 
dated 19 March  2018 which Mr W provided  us that shows he sent Admiral  an email in which  
he said My policy is wrong, I have a full UK driver  licence. But as he sent that email  to a 
noreply Admiral email address, I dont think they saw it. So its clear to me that he did have 
a full licence. Mr W has also told our service  that he was surprised the cost of a policy could 
increase once the licence of a driver changed  from provisional to full, as a full licence holder 
meant they were fully qualified to drive. So I think that when Mr W realised his premium  
increased when  he updated his licence  on Admirals website  on 20 March,  he denied  he had 
a full licence to avoid the increase  in premium. And I think  that is why he refused to do the 
DVLA check when Admiral asked  him to.
Although Mr W was insistent on cancelling his policy immediately on 21 March 2018,  he 
changed his mind and asked for it to continue. His policy did allow him to cancel  the policy,  
so he could have  done that if he wanted  to. But instead he asked Admiral to continue his 
policy on 21 March, yet he cancelled  his direct debit mandate  so his premium instalments 
werent paid. I have seen  evidence  that Admiral sent him a number of letters, both by post 
and by email, saying his direct debit hadnt  been  paid and warning him that the policy  could 
be cancelled. They also warned him he couldnt keep a car on a public road without 
insurance and if his insurance  was cancelled, his car could get clamped or be seized. Im 
satisfied Admiral sent those letters to Mr Ws correct postal and email  addresses. Admiral 
have also provided  evidence to show some of the emails sent to Mr W about payment not 
being made and cancellation were opened.
I understand that Admiral waived the £156.95  balance due on the policy and the cancellation 
fee of £49.50. I think that was reasonable.
Mr W feels that Admiral  have breached  his consumer  protection  rights. He said Admiral  
simply imposed the additional premium on him without  first telling him. But I dont agree that 
Ref: DRN71847353Admiral did anything wrong. Mr W had a duty to tell Admiral that his licence had changed to 
a full one, but he didnt  do that when he was asked  on 21 March 2018. And when Admiral 
found out about the change, they were  entitled to reassess his policy and amend the cost of 
it in accordance with their pricing guidelines. Mr W didnt have to continue with the policy if 
he wasnt happy with the change in price and he could have cancelled it. But he didnt do 
that. The policy clearly  says that Admiral could cancel the policy if Mr W didnt pay his 
premium when due. After giving him the necessary warnings,  Admiral  cancelled the policy, 
which I think was reasonable.
no claims bonus (NCB)
When Admiral  cancelled  the policy they sent Mr W a Proof  of No Claims Bonus notice. 
That notice said Mr W had 0 years  NCB.  Mr W told us that Admiral had agreed to give him 
10 years  NCB. I have listened to the calls.  Admiral did give Mr W 10 years NCB, but only on 
the condition that he provided  them with proof  from his previous insurer.  But Mr W never 
provided proof to Admiral  by the time the policy was cancelled, so I think  Admiral were  
reasonable in issuing  the notice in the way they did. 
premium increase
Mr W didnt think  it was fair for Admiral  to increase the premium once a driver went from 
having a provisional to a full licence. 
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my role to 
tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our service generally  takes  
the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers  with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  In doing so insurers  take 
into consideration many different factors. And its not down to me to tell insurers what factors  
they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments. 
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. 
Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against  the need  to 
compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to 
interfere with. 
Changing from having a provisional  to a full licence  does  cause  premiums  to increase. A 
provisional licence  holder  will be supervised by an experienced driver, but a full licence 
holder can drive on their own.  As insurance  is essentially  an assessment of risk, I dont think 
theres anything wrong with insurers considering  whether  or not certain individuals fall into 
higher risk groupings. That is, as long as they have data to support their assessments. In 
this case, I understand that Admiral  have data that shows that policyholders who have 
changed from a provisional to a full licence are more likely to make a claim than those who 
havent. I therefore dont believe Admiral have  acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN71847354my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7184735