K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains that The Falcon  Group Limited  (Falcon) gave unsuitable advice to transfer
benefits held in his personal pension (PP) with Scottish Equitable,  into AXA Secure
Advantage Lifetime Income Retirement Solution  (the AXA plan).  
Background
Mr F had a pre-existing  relationship with Falcon.  In 2008, they advised on and facilitated  the
transfer of his previous occupational pension to a personal pension.  In 2012, Mr F instructed
Falcon to review his retirement plan. He completed Falcons risk questionnaire and provided
them with the information needed,  regarding his circumstances at the time. Falcon  then
advised Mr F to transfer benefits held in his PP (approximately £123,800) to the AXA plan.
The AXA plan guaranteed  a minimum level of income for the remainder of Mr Fs life, from a
selected retirement date.
Unhappy with the advice he was given  in 2012, Mr F complained to Falcon in 2017.  He felt
the advice was unsuitable due to his circumstances at the time.  Falcon  stated the advice
was suitable and met Mr Fs needs.
In 2019 Mr F then brought his complaint to us. Falcon informed this Service  that Mr F had
carried out his own research and was made aware  of the charges and costs associated  with
the transfer prior to his instruction. They also stated that the AXA plan funds matched Mr Fs
attitude to risk and benefited from a guaranteed income.
However, our investigator concluded that Falcon  did not provide suitable advice to Mr F. She
explained that Falcon didnt take into consideration the full range  of options available to
Mr F, given  the specific nature of his circumstances.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Falcon carry out a loss calculation.
They recommended  that Falcon  compare Mr Fs investment with his previous PP and pay
any loss identified. Plus £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Falcon disagreed  with our investigators  recommendation. They maintained  that the advice
given was suitable. In particular they made reference  to the 4% deferral bonus the AXA plan
benefited from, which fed into Mr Fs guaranteed income.
As the parties couldnt  agree, this was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
At the time of the transfer, Falcon  were aware  that Mr F:
Was a cautious  investor;
Was married  with no financial  dependents;
Was 57 years of age and eight years  away from retirement;
Was a homeowner, with a small outstanding mortgage;
Was employed, with an annual income of £31,000; and
His income, when combined with his wifes, comfortably exceeded their monthly 
expenditure.
Ref: DRN76051722Reason for retirement plan review:
Mr F wanted  to build up as large  a pension fund as possible before his selected 
retirement age of 65;
Mr F was nervous about the volatile markets  and consequential fluctuations in the
value of his PP; and
Mr F wanted  a product that provided a guaranteed fund income.
When assessing the suitability of this transfer, consideration will be given to COBs  9.2.2(1).
This sets out the rule applicable at the time, regarding the suitability of advice.
COBs 9.2.2(1) states:
A firm must obtain from the client such information  as is necessary for the firm to understand
the essential facts  about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving due
consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided,  that the specific  transaction  to
be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
a)meets his investment objectives;
b)is such that he is able financially  to bear any related  investment risks consistent  with 
his investment objectives; and
c)is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge  in order  to understand 
the risks involved in the transaction  or in the management of his portfolio.
I will consider  each  subsection in turn.
Did the transfer  meet  Mr Fs investment objectives?
According to the suitability  report, Mr F wanted  to build up as large a pension fund as
possible. He was nervous about  the ongoing uncertainty  of the global markets  and how that
would impact his pension fund. The report goes on to say:
With this information  in mind, after explaining  to you that there were ways  of protecting  your
retirement income from market crashes,  but also still allowing your fund to grow  if and when
markets recover, you were  extremely  keen to embrace this approach  for the peace  of mind
this will give you.
Specifically, the AXA plan allowed Mr F to withdraw a regular income, whilst leaving the
remainder invested.  This plan also benefited  from a minimum annual income for the
remainder of Mr Fs life. The actual amount would have been  dependent on Mr Fs age and
the value of the income base, when  he started  to take his income.
According to the suitability  report, there is also a deferral bonus.  If a 2% growth hasnt been
achieved for the period the funds remain invested (provided income isnt taken straight
away), AXA will add a deferral bonus of 2% simple  interest, each year,  to the income base.
AXA have confirmed that a 2% deferral  bonus was applied to Mr Fs secure  income base on
the plan anniversary. This was done  until he started  to take his benefits in May 2020.
That said,  I note after our investigators view, Falcon told us Mr Fs AXA plan benefited from
a 4% bonus. But having looked at the brochure  they provided to evidence this, I have seen
the brochure was dated after the advice was given. I am therefore  satisfied  that Mr Fs AXA
Ref: DRN76051723plan benefited  from a 2% bonus  as stated  in the suitability report  and confirmed by AXA.
The AXA plan provided Mr F with the opportunity to build  his pension and provide a
guaranteed income. These  were significant  factors Mr F wanted  to address as part of his
retirement plan.
Despite the name, the deferral bonus didnt depend on Mr F deferring his intended
retirement date. The deferral  is referring  to the policy holder not having taken any benefits
that year. Thereby,  deferring to the following year. So, I cannot see that Mr F would  have
had to compromise his retirement plans in order to reap the benefits on offer in this regard.
And although not specified as a point of focus for him, the death  benefits also allowed for
Mr F to pass on the residual value of the plan to his loved ones. Something his PP didnt
allow for. Taking these  points into consideration, I think the AXA plan did meet  Mr Fs
investment objectives.
Was Mr F able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent with his investment
objectives?
Mr F explained that he was nervous about the ongoing uncertainty of the markets.  And the
continuous fluctuations in the value of [his] pension plan. In response to this Falcon  has
stated the value of the Income  Base  is guaranteed to increase each year by at least 2%
 of the amount paid in.
The affiliated  charges with the AXA plan were higher than Mr Fs PP. But as the charges
were deducted from the value of the plan AXA have  confirmed, there was no effect  on the
benefit base. Once the benefit base has been  locked in, it cannot be reduced - unless  there
is a partial flexi withdrawal. This is something  that Mr F would have to do, and not something
AXA or Falcon could  have  initiated,  so he was in control of this.
Mr F was also concerned about the volatile global markets and consequential possible
negative impact on his pension fund. Due to the guarantees that came  with the AXA plan,
this significantly reduced the risks associated with investments. Falcon have told us that as
Mr F didnt  want  to run the risk of receiving a lower pension the AXA plan met [his] needs.
And in considering the benefits  as outlined in the previous section, Im inclined to agree. By
having guaranteed growth (something  his PP didnt  have), Mr F wasnt subjected to the
volatile investment markets.
Did Mr F have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks
involved in the transaction  or in the management  of his portfolio?
Falcon have stated Mr F carried out his own research prior to the transfer. Whether or not
this is true, doesnt  free Falcon from their duty to provide suitable advice. This is therefore
irrelevant in this instance. Falcon  were instructed to review Mr Fs retirement plan and
provide suitable  advice  on the options available  to him.
Having reviewed the suitability report, I do think this product could  have been  explained
better, in places.  Its a complex product  and it would seem there has been some 
unnecessary confusion.  Only after further information was received directly from AXA,  was I
able to consider  the suitability of advice  given in this instance.
That said,  I think the information provided to Mr F overall, was clear. It showed how his
Ref: DRN76051724objectives would be met and why the other options available  to him may not have been
suitable.
In summary,  based on the evidence I have been  provided, I do not intend to uphold this
complaint. As I do not believe Falcon have acted in an unfair or unreasonable  way.
The response  to my provisional  decision
Falcon had no further comments.
Mr F doesnt agree with my provisional decision.  He has said that he had expected to remain 
with Scottish Equitable  until retirement. And that he did not have any concerns  regarding 
[that] fund.  Hes explained that he relied  on the information provided to him by Falcon in 
2008 and 2012. 
Mr F states:
he did not have  a good  understanding at the time of pensions:
as his previous  fund has outperformed  the AXA plan, he cannot  see how the 
investment advice given was correct;
he was told if there  was another downturn in the economy, he could lose his pension;
the review of his pension fund in 2012 was not at his request and he wasnt 
concerned with volatile global markets (only  becoming aware of this when told by 
Falcon in the meeting);
in 2012 he was advised an Aegon stakeholder pension was not suitable yet two 
years later his new independent financial  adviser (IFA) set up his companys 
stakeholder pension with Aegon, which has had reasonable returns;
in 2017 his IFA informed him that he didnt  understand why the previous IFA 
recommended the AXA fund. Further, his IFA told him he didnt believe the AXA plan 
was suitable, there  were  high charges and low returns. As he felt he couldnt justify  
charging him a £600 commission fee, his IFA suggested Mr F stop using him with 
regards to this fund to help save costs;
the AXA plan didnt perform as described  the 2% deferral bonus  finished at 1.75%;
he wasnt the only person who took Falcons  advice in this regard, but the others 
havent pursued their complaint beyond complaining to Falcon;
including others who took Falcons advice to transfer, the loss resulting from the 
advice given in 2012 is around  £240,000  and the loss hes suffered due to the advice 
given in 2008 is £60,000; and
an investigation is needed to find out how many others were  given  the same  advice  
to transfer to the AXA plan and have lost money.  
So, its clear Mr F thinks the advice to transfer  in 2012 was unsuitable.
Consideration given to the companys stakeholder pension, isnt relevant  to the complaint 
point being determined in this case. And whether others have  suffered a loss on the back  of 
advice they may or may not have received from Falcon, isnt something I can look into as 
part of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN76051725I note Mr Fs comments regarding the performance of the AXA plan (the deferral bonus 
finishing at 1.75%). This is something  hell need  to discuss with the provider in the first 
instance. As my consideration here is to the suitability of the advice Falcon gave.    
Although Mr F has made reference to the events that took place in 2008, this has not formed 
part of my consideration. The advice given in 2008  has already been  considered  by this 
Service and cannot  be considered again here.
And if Mr F believes  an investigation into Falcon  is needed, hed need  to contact the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  reviewed the information  Mr F 
has provided since my provisional  decision,  I havent changed my mind.  I will explain why 
below.
As explained in my provisional decision,  I have to apply COBs 9.2.2(1), which  sets out the 
rules regarding the suitability of advice.  
Mr F has stated his previous fund has outperformed  the AXA plan.  Suggesting this shows 
the advice he was given was unsuitable.  Whether  or not the AXA plan outperformed that 
fund is not relevant. Falcon didnt guarantee the outperformance of other funds. Further,  
Falcon have no control over fund performance, which is generally linked to the performance 
of global  markets. Conversely, if the AXA plan had outperformed  the other fund, it wouldnt 
make sense to say that was because of Falcon.   
Mr F has attempted to clarify his concerns regarding volatile global markets at the time. And 
I appreciate its difficult to recall things  that happened almost ten years ago. Hes now saying 
he wasnt concerned  with this, but his suitability report says otherwise. Mr F hasnt 
previously rejected the content of his suitability report. So, Im not persuaded by his 
assertion that this was not a concern he previously had. 
Having reviewed the letter his subsequent IFA sent to him in 2017, I note it says the AXA 
plan was:
 advised as being suitable by your previous IFA as you had serious  concerns  about  falls in 
value and the plan does  protect you in that sense by having the potential for an increase 
annually to its benefit base and also give a fixed  secure  income% based  on the age 
income begins. While you still value the protection  from stock market falls, you too are 
disappointed with the very low returns.
This further  points to Mr F having been concerned about the unpredictable nature of stock  
market performance.  And it clearly demonstrates  that whilst he was happy  to be protected  
from this, he was actually  disappointed with his investment growth. 
There is nothing in the letter that suggests  his IFA felt the AXA plan was unsuitable for Mr F 
at the time of the advice  (2012). Rather, he had concerns  regarding  the ongoing suitability 
due to the high charges and poor fund performance. Consequently, Mr Fs IFA explained 
that there  wasnt much he could  do to enhance  the outcome of the AXA plan that would 
justify the ongoing fee. As such,  it was agreed hed cease advising on the AXA plan.  
Ref: DRN76051726It is understandable  that Mr F would be disappointed  with the investment growth hes seen 
with his AXA plan,  when compared  to how his previous fund has performed over the same  
period. But as I have  explained Falcon  cannot  be held responsible for this. I should also 
point out that the higher  charges for the AXA plan are due to the protection  it offers against 
unpredictable markets. A key feature of the product  and something that was important to 
Mr F at the time of the advice. 
Based on how Mr F has described  what happened, Falcon gave a presentation to a group of 
people regarding the AXA plan. As a result of this presentation,  some chose to take matters 
further and instructed Falcon to carry out the transfer and others didnt.  So, if Mr F wanted  to 
keep his funds  in Scottish Equitable, he could  have. 
Mr F said the review of his pension  fund was not at his request. Falcon had described a 
possible scenario  (another downturn  in the economy, resulting in Mr Fs pension being lost).  
And presented the AXA plan as security  against  this. This doesnt detract from the suitability 
of the advice given. Mr F was close to retirement  with concerns about the stock markets and 
how this could negatively  impact his pension.  It is true that a downturn in the economy could 
result in an individual losing their pension  depending on the severity  of the downturn and 
the type of pension they have.  The AXA plan provided security against  Mr Fs concerns. 
The documents I have seen,  show Mr F discussed this potential  transfer  a number of times 
and the industry  standard was met in that a fact find, suitability report  and risk assessment 
were all completed.   
According to Mr F, he relied  on the information provided to him by Falcon and he didnt have 
a good understanding  of pensions at the time. I have no reason to doubt this is true. And 
although Falcon had previously  said Mr F had carried  out his own research, in my 
provisional decision I said:
Whether or not this is true, doesnt free Falcon from their duty to provide  suitable advice. 
This is therefore irrelevant  in this instance.
This is still the case. But I maintain that the information provided by Falcon  overall, was 
clear. Mr F had a fairly low risk appetite  scoring  3 out of a possible 10 (1 = not prepared  to 
accept any risk. 10 = high risk investor). With this in mind, Falcon correctly identified  that 
having mainly low risk investments (for example cash and bonds) and less high risk 
investments (for example  shares),  would be better  suited to Mr Fs investment  experience  
and knowledge.  The AXA plan satisfies this requirement. 
I have to consider  the information  recorded  at the time. Mr Fs concerns were  to do with the 
volatility of the markets. And whilst  the charges were higher, the plan appealed to Mr F due 
to the protection it offered against this volatility.  It has a specific  purpose. And given that 
Mr F was a low risk investor, I cant say the advice to transfer  was unsuitable. But I do 
recognise that this product essentially locked in Mr Fs benefits. And future growth  was going 
to be limited compared to other options available.  But I think  Mr F was made aware  of this. 
Therefore, I still think Falcon  provided  suitable advice at the time. I appreciate this isnt the 
outcome Mr F was hoping  for. But I have to make my decision based  on what took place at 
the time and the circumstances at the time. And I am not persuaded that Mr F wasnt 
seeking an option that protected him from the volatile markets. 
Ref: DRN76051727Based on the evidence  I have seen, I am satisfied that the standard set out in COBs 9.2.2(1) 
has been met. The transfer met Mr Fs needs; he was able to financially bear the related 
investment risks consistent with his objectives; and Mr F had the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the transaction or management of his 
portfolio
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Mr Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2021.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7605172