K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (Halifax) mis-sold  them  three regular 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policies when they took out a 
mortgage.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to reject this complaint and I 
invited both parties to let me have any further  representations.
my findings
Mr and Mrs Cs representative confirmed that itd received and read the provisional  decision 
but had no further information or evidence from Mr and Mrs C for me to consider. Halifax 
didnt respond  to the provisional decision.
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I do 
not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76512702Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold them three regular premium 
mortgage payment protection  insurance  (MPPI) policies  when they took out a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Halifax  in September 1998. The mortgage was for just over 
£30,000 and was to be repaid over 24 years. At the same time they purchased  an MPPI policy. This 
policy covered Mr C only in the event  that he wasnt working due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy cost £12.65 each  month and in the event of a successful claim it wouldve 
provided a monthly  benefit of £250. The policy was cancelled in July 2006.
In July 2006,  Mr and Mrs C borrowed some additional money from Halifax and at the same time took 
out an MPPI policy. The policy was a plan known  as Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  TMPP 
can be split into three sections: Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover  
and Critical  Illness Cover  (CIC). Mr and Mrs C purchased MPPI  only.
This policy cost just nearly £50 each month and it covered both Mr C and Mrs C in the event  either of 
them wasnt working due to accident,  sickness  or unemployment.  The total monthly  benefit  was split 
equally between  them   so it wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £419.62 for either of them for up 
to 12 months  following a successful claim.
In March 2008  Mr and Mrs C borrowed a further £6,000 over the remaining 13 years of the mortgage. 
And at the same time they purchased a policy to cover  Mrs C only.  This policy  only provided Life 
Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC) and cost £5.42 each month. It wouldve paid out a lump  sum if 
Mrs C died or contracted a critical illness.
Our adjudicator looked  at this complaint and said it should be upheld.  He explained that based on Mr 
and Mrs Cs circumstances and the terms and conditions  of each of the policies,  he thought  the MPPI 
policy had been mis-sold in July 2006. But he didnt  uphold the complaint about the sale of the other 
policies in 1998 and 2008.  Halifax  disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I hope that Mr and Mrs C and Halifax  wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint 
in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that.
Having considered  the evidence, I dont think  the three MPPI policies were mis-sold  and Ill explain 
why.
September 1998
I think  its likely Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the MPPI  and they 
chose to purchase the policy   although I can understand if they cant remember  this given how long 
ago it was.
This is because I can see they both signed a mortgage application form in July 1998 which had a 
specific section in it about  the MPPI.  The heading of the MPPI section was entitled Accident, 
Sickness and Unemployment Insurance.  And it invited Mr and Mrs C to sign a box if this type of 
cover was something they wanted to have. Alternatively, they had the option to leave this section 
blank. In this particular  case,  they both signed the box to confirm  they would like to take 
advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. 
Ref: DRN76512703There was also another, separate  form to fill out to get the MPPI set up on their account  and Ive 
seen a copy  of this form as well. This form details the person  to be insured, the level of cover 
required and the monthly cost of the policy. And I can see that Mr C signed this form in July 1998 as 
well.
So I think these things are strong evidence Mr and Mrs C asked for the MPPI and would have been 
able to see they had a choice. I think they both decided  they wanted MPPI cover and agreed to 
purchase it. 
Halifax confirms that this was an advised sale, so it needed  to take appropriate steps to ensure that 
the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. And for the reasons set out below  I think  it was suitable for 
them, taking into account  the policy  benefits, cost of cover and their broader  financial circumstances 
at that time.  And I dont think its likely that they wouldve acted differently; and not taken  out the 
policy, if theyd been better advised and informed.
I say this because:
 The policy covered  Mr C and given  his circumstances at the time of the sale, (and taking account  
of the policy  conditions), I am satisfied he was eligible for the cover.
 His circumstances dont  uggest  that he wouldve been affected by any of the significant  
limitations or exclusions  of the cover, such as those relating to health conditions or unusual  
employment arrangements.  He told us he was employed  and in good health.  So he could expect 
to benefit  from the full extent of the cover provided  by this policy.
 Whilst Mr C may have  received some  sick pay from his employer, this does  not automatically  
mean that the policy  was unsuitable. This is because  if he were  unable to work, the MPPI was 
intended to remove the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments,  at what would 
likely be a difficult  time. The mortgage  was secured against their home and so the 
consequences of them not being  able to keep  up payments could have  been serious.  In the 
event of a successful claim,  the cover they bought was payable for up to 12 months and this 
wouldve been in addition to any other means they already had in place  at the time. 
So although I cant say why Mr and Mrs C decided  to buy this policy, I dont think Halifax  
recommending it to them  was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
I dont know for certain  how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation with the 
Halifax sales  adviser.  The policy  provided  a monthly benefit  at a cost of around £12 per month. And it 
seems to me that someone in their circumstances might have concluded that the policy provided 
valuable cover  at a very reasonable price. And in the event that they no longer wanted  to have the 
benefit of the cover, Mr and Mrs C couldve cancelled  the policy at any time without penalty.
So, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have  been some 
failings in how this policy was sold,  I dont think Mr and Mrs C wouldve decided  against taking it out if 
they had been better informed. It seems more  likely to me that they had some interest in protecting  
their mortgage repayments  and chose to go ahead with this policy.
July 2006
Again, I think  its likely  Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
they chose to purchase  the policy.
I havent been  able to look at all the paperwork  from the time the policy was sold but I dont think this 
is surprising given how long ago the sale took place. However, I do know that the way MPPI was 
presented  at the time Mr and Mrs C took out the MPPI  showed that it was optional,  and that a 
customer needed  to agree  for a policy to be set up. 
Ref: DRN76512704Mr and Mrs C and their representative say it wasnt clear  the policy  was optional. But their 
recollections of the sale arent detailed  and so I havent  been able to understand how they werent 
given a choice to have  the policy by Halifax. I note Mr and Mrs C purchased  the MPPI  when they 
changed to a regulated mortgage and took out some more borrowing. And Ive seen  a copy  of the 
mortgage offer from the time and it states  that the policy  is optional  and that the bank didnt  require 
customers to take out any insurance with it. Taking this into account along with the documentation  Ive 
seen and what  I know  about how these sales were conducted, Im satisfied the policy was optional 
and I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C were  given a choice  about the MPPI.  
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the MPPI was right for them. 
The policy covered both Mr C and Mrs C and based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the 
time, I think the policy was suitable. Although the screen shots from the bank seem to contradict each 
other, nothing  that Mr and Mrs C or their representative told us indicates  that the policy wouldnt  have 
been suitable   they were  both employed  and in good health. And they seem to have had a need for 
the cover as they had no sickness benefits through work  and no savings.
Its possible the information Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs C about  the MPPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But they chose  to take it out to protect themselves against either of them not working  so it 
looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about  the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
March 2008
As with the previous sale in 2006, I dont think this policy  was mis-sold either  and for many of the 
same reasons. The policy was bought  when  Mr and Mrs C took out a further loan.  And it seems they 
had a discussion about it with the bank adviser as they made choices about  the insurance cover they 
wanted; the policy covered Mrs C only; they only purchased life cover and CIC; and the level of cover 
required was the same in value as the amount of new borrowing - £6,000.  So Im satisfied they made  
choices about the policy before they chose to buy it.
The policy was recommended by the bank and I think it was a suitable recommendation  Mrs C was 
employed and in good  health so she wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the unusual terms or 
policy exclusions  she couldve relied  on the full extent of the cover.
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C  it may not have told them  everything they 
needed to know. But the policy was suitable and the cost,  around £5 each month,  seems to have 
been affordable. So I dont think better information wouldve put them off buying this policy  in March 
2008.
I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with my provisional decision,  but I hope they understand 
why Im minded  to reject  their complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that three policies werent  mis-sold, so I dont uphold this complaint.
I now invite  Mr and Mrs C and Bank of Scotland plc to give me further  new information, that Ive not 
already seen, that theyd like me to consider  before I make my final decision.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7651270