K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1995. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. As Mr C disagreed  with that 
view, the matter has been passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C, but I havent  upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that this policy was sold during a meeting.  I cant know  what was said 
during that meeting. To help me decide  whats likely to have happened,  Ive looked  at what  
Mr C told us about it. And Ive also considered the paperwork thats  available  from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr C would have known the PPI was optional.  In 
his PPI questionnaire,  Mr C told us that he couldnt recall where the cover was sold.  Hed 
accepted Barclays  view that it was sold in a branch.  However,  Mr C was clear  in his view 
that Barclays had told him the cover was compulsory and he had to take it out in order  to get 
the credit  card.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C told us. Ive also taken account of the fact that its 
difficult to remember precisely what happened over 20 years ago, which is when  this policy  
was sold. It wasnt immediately clear  to me how Mr C could remember  precisely  what 
Barclays had said if he was unsure about how the policy was sold to him. 
Given the difficulties  in remembering what happened such  a long time ago, Ive considered  
the credit  card application form. I can see that there were two equally prominent  boxes to 
tick  one to indicate Mr C wanted a PPI policy and another  to say he didnt.  In this case, the 
yes  box has been selected.  I think the wording on the form is sufficiently clear to suggest 
that this policy wasnt  compulsory. And I can see that Mr C declined  another  insurance policy 
at the same  time. So that suggests he knew he didnt  have  to buy additional financial 
products if he didnt want to. 
Barclays advised Mr C to buy this cover. So it had to make sure it was suitable for his needs. 
To help me decide whether the cover  was suitable,  Ive looked at what  Mr C told us about  
his personal circumstances. And Ive also considered what we understand the terms and 
conditions of the PPI to have been  at that time. 
 
I can see that if hed lost his job or become unwell, 10% of Mr Cs credit card balance  would 
have been repaid for every month  he was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months.  In his 
PPI questionnaire, Mr C told us that he couldnt  recall precisely how much sick pay he had, 
but he would  have had more than three  months  full pay. I can see that when he took this 
policy out, Mr C told us hed been working  with his employer for nine months. With that in 
Ref: DRN72706112mind, I think  its unlikely  hed have had 12 months  full pay. I think  its likely the PPI would 
have lasted for longer than the means  he had in place from work. And Mr C told us he didnt 
have any other means of making repayments towards his credit  card if he was out of work. 
Mr C told us he was in good health  when  he bought  this cover.  So I dont think  hed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen 
anything unusual about his employment  circumstances that would have stopped him from 
making a successful claim if he needed to. With all of this in mind, I think  the PPI probably 
was suitable for him. 
Even so, Barclays still had to give Mr C enough information about the cover so he could 
decide for himself  whether it was right for him. I think  its possible that Mr C wasnt  given all 
of the information he should have been  given.  But Ive set out above how I think  this policy  
could have been helpful if he was out of work. And I think he probably chose to buy the PPI 
at the time  so it looks as though he wanted  this type of cover.  Ultimately,  I dont think hed 
have acted differently  if hed been given more or better information about  the PPI. 
Just to be clear, I know that Mr C has made the point that Barclays  didnt  tell him he could 
have bought PPI elsewhere. I agree with our adjudicator  that it wasnt obliged to tell him 
about other cover that could have been available elsewhere. 
 As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint  Mr C, but I havent upheld his complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7270611