K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK plc didnt tell him that it hadnt cleared a cheque hed 
paid into a dormant  account.
background
In 2015 Mr S paid a cheque into an account  he held with Santander. But the account was 
dormant, so Santander didnt clear the cheque. It didnt  tell Mr S what had happened until 
2019.
Santander accepted that it shouldve told Mr S what had happened  sooner. It refunded  the 
value of the cheque,  and offered to pay net interest of £90.42.
Our investigator thought that was fair, but said Santander should  also pay £75 to Mr S for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Santander agreed with the investigators  recommendation.  Mr S said he didnt think £75 was 
enough in light of how long t had taken  Santander to tell him what had happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the account terms, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander  to 
treat Mr Ss account as dormant. There hadnt  been any activity  on the account for some  
time before he paid in the cheque.
But Santander has accepted that it should  have told Mr S sooner that the cheque  wouldnt 
be cleared. It refunded  the amount of the cheque, and offered to pay net interest of £90.42. I 
think thats fair.
Santander has also agreed to pay compensation of £75. I realise Mr S doesnt think  this  
enough, given  how long it took Santander  to tell him what had happened.  But when I take 
account of complaints of a similar, Im satisfied  that this amount is fair and reasonable. So I 
wont be asking Santander  to pay anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that Santander  UK plc should pay £165.42 to Mr S.
Santander must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it Mr S 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Santander considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold any tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr S how much  its taken off. 
Santander should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN77291412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7729141