K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that when she made a claim under her motor insurance policy BISL 
Limited didnt make  it clear that she was being referred to a credit hire and repair company. 
She said this caused delay  in the claim, stress and inconvenience.
background
When Mrs M was involved  in an accident,  she called BISL. It referred  her to a credit  hire 
company but after five weeks  the other drivers  insurer  disputed  liability  and so the company 
referred Mrs M back to her insurer. Mrs M said if shed had better  information  she would 
have made  a claim through her insurer in the first instance. She complained about the 
actions of the credit hire company.  And she said shed been  referred  to it when she was 
distressed.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She didnt think  BISL  
had clearly explained to Mrs M the differences between having  her claim managed by the 
credit hire company as opposed to her insurer. But she didnt think  the referral  had caused 
Mrs M any financial loss. She thought Mrs M could have postponed the notification call if she 
was feeling distressed. She explained that we couldnt consider the actions of the credit  hire 
company.
Mrs M replied raising concerns about  the referral. She said that she was misled  about 
whether the policy  excess was payable and thought the BISL agent was incentivised  to refer 
to the credit  hire company. She thought BISL should have checked whether she felt well 
enough to make a decision at that time. She also raised concerns about how her insurer  
eventually dealt with her claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn that Mrs M feels that she now suffers anxiety because  of her experience. 
I can understand that having an accident and dealing  with a claim can be a distressing and 
upsetting experience, even when it all goes smoothly. 
I can see that Mrs M has raised a separate  complaint about  how her insurer handled her 
claim. I cant  consider  that here as its a separate company  to BISL. And so I cant  consider 
the actions of her insurer in assessing  her repairs. 
The adjudicator has already explained  that credit  hire doesnt fall within  the jurisdiction of this 
service, as its not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So I cant consider here the 
actions of the credit hire company  directly. But I can consider the actions of her broker, BISL. 
This service considers that if a business refers a consumer  to a company outside  of this 
services jurisdiction it should make sure it provides clear  and sufficient information  to the 
consumer. It also shouldnt rely on information that may be provided by the credit hire 
company or any other unregulated third party.
Ref: DRN71106552Like the adjudicator,  Ive listened to the call where  BISL referred Mrs M to the credit  hire 
company. In this call, I dont think the agent  made  it clear  enough  to Mrs M that the service 
of the credit  hire company  was different  to her insurer and that her claim wasnt under her 
policy. And I dont think he made  it clear  that Mrs M could still choose to claim through her 
insurer. 
Mrs M said the agent should have checked  that she was well enough to proceed  with her 
decision. But I think the onus was also on her to tell the agent if she was unwell or wanted  to 
postpone the call. The agent  did ask her about her injuries and alerted her to look out for any 
developments. Having listened to the call, I didnt hear anything  from Mrs Ms manner that 
should have prompted BISL to be concerned for her wellbeing. So I cant say that BISL  
acted unreasonably. 
So, as I think that the referral could have been  clearer, I now need  to consider whether, if 
Mrs M had been provided with better  information, she would have  done  anything differently. 
The agent  explained to Mrs M that she wouldnt need to pay her excess  up front if she went 
through the credit hire route. Mrs M said she was misled about the excess,  but I think  the 
agent gave her reasonably clear information  about this at the time.  But I dont think this 
affected Mrs Ms decision as she seemed to be more concerned about where the car was to 
be repaired. So I dont  have enough evidence to say whether Mrs M would  have decided  
differently if shed been given better  information. 
Ive also considered whether the referral  caused Mrs M any financial loss. I can see that, five 
weeks after the call, the other drivers  insurer decided to dispute liability and Mrs M was 
referred back to her insurer to deal with the claim. But in this time, Mrs M had already had 
repairs made to her car as she wanted  to continue using it. Her insurer  then had to assess  
the repairs. But I dont  think BISL was responsible for the other drivers insurers  decision. So 
I cant see that BISL caused  any significant  delays in the claim. 
The adjudicator has asked Mrs M to provide evidence of any financial losses for us to 
consider. But I cant  see that shes provided this. So I cant  say that Mrs M was caused  any 
financial loss by the referral. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7110655