K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that F, an appointed representative  of TenetLime Ltd, didnt act fairly or 
reasonably when dealing with his remortgage applications. He wants  compensation.
background
Mr C said he went to F, a broker and an appointed  representative of TenetLime, to arrange a 
remortgage of two properties in February  2017  in order  to buy a new build property with the 
help of a new residential mortgage   Mr C had one residential mortgage with consent  to let 
and one normal residential mortgage. He said that F never made any applications on his 
behalf (including both residential  and buy to let mortgages for properties in which  Mr C used 
to live) and gave him false and incorrect information  as to progress for over a year. Mr C 
also said that F told him to cancel his current mortgage direct debits, which  damaged his 
reputation; he felt that F had caused him financial loss due to staying on a high interest  rate 
for his current mortgage while matters  werent progressed. Mr C noted that hed paid brokers 
fees and bridging  loan fees but had nothing to show for it and that one lender now refused to 
deal with him.
Mr C complained to TenetLime. It said that F did submit an application for a bridging loan, 
but Mr C later chose not to go ahead with it. The same happened in relation to two earlier 
mortgage applications according  to TenetLime. It accepted that the later mortgage  
applications werent made and progressed as claimed to Mr C, and noted  that F had paid 
Mr C £8,828 to cover  the additional interest payments hed had to pay as a result.  
TenetLime didnt  accept that the activity surrounding  the buy to let mortgage was a regulated  
activity and refused  to consider this issue further.  TenetLime thought  the money already paid 
by F offset  the extra  interest costs  paid by Mr C, particularly as he was looking to increase 
the length of his mortgage and his residential  mortgage application wouldnt have been 
straightforward as he wanted  to rent out the property  in a years  time. It said F shouldve  
explained that remortgaging at that time mightnt have been the best option given Mr Cs 
circumstances. 
TenetLime denied  that false mortgage applications were made, but accepted  F did mislead  
Mr C about the progress of his application and told him to cancel a direct  debit  paying  his 
residential mortgage. It agreed  that Fs failures had caused Mr C to feel stress, but didnt 
agree his credit score had been  adversely affected.  TenetLime said F had offered to pay 
Mr Cs new brokers  fees of £900 and it offered £500  compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. This was in addition to the payment  already made for financial loss.
Mr C complained to us. The investigators view was that it was clear  F hadnt behaved 
appropriately, but the offer made was fair and reasonable. The investigator  said he thought  
enough had been paid to compensate for the additional  interest paid in respect of the 
residential mortgage, particularly as he thought it was likely that a new residential mortgage  
mightnt have been suitable in the circumstances. The investigator agreed that Fs service 
hadnt been good enough, but said Mr Cs credit score hadnt been  significantly affected, and 
said the offer made was sufficient.
Ref: DRN73351842Mr C disagreed. He said he suffered significant stress for over a year and was worried  that 
he was being  defrauded. Mr C said that no application for a bridging loan was made and 
asked where the fee he paid for this loan went.  He also said his current mortgage provider 
was refusing to lend to him due to the cancelled direct debit. Mr C felt more compensation 
was due. He was unable to provide direct  confirmation from the lender that it wouldnt lend to 
him but provided  evidence from his new broker. The investigator also contacted the lender 
involved, who didnt  say that it was unwilling to lend to Mr C due to events caused by F.
The investigator changed his view after receiving more evidence from the parties. He said 
the events surrounded products within this services  jurisdiction  and it was right to look at 
whether enough  compensation had been offered for the poor service suffered by Mr C. He 
noted the lack of evidence  provided  about  applications allegedly made or what happened  
with the bridging  loan.  The investigator thought all of the fees charged to Mr C by F should 
be refunded (meaning  another  £1785 was due), as should all of his financial loss caused by 
paying extra  interest (which meant another £1,293 was due). He also said that 
compensation for trouble  and upset should  be increased by another £750 (on top of the 
£500 already offered)  as Mr C had suffered for over a year and had been put to much 
inconvenience.
TenetLime didnt  agree with the investigators  view but didnt address the points made within  
that view. Mr C felt that while the investigator  made fair points and the compensation he 
proposed seemed reasonable,  more compensation should be paid to reflect how poor Fs 
practice had been,  the fact that much of what Mr C had sent TenetLime when he complained  
hadnt been sent to this service until after the investigator gave his initial  view and because  
TenetLime hadnt accepted the investigators second view.  Mr C said he hadnt  received any 
compensation, other than the £8,828 paid towards  his extra  mortgage  interest.  The 
investigator amended  his view to reflect  the fact that no payment had yet been made by 
TenetLime, which Mr C accepted. TenetLime  didnt  accept the new view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should  point  out that under  the current mortgage rules, buy to let mortgages  for 
properties which used  to be lived in by the consumer as their home are within the jurisdiction 
of this service. This means that in Mr Cs case,  I can look at everything that has happened  
when he was dealing  with F.
Theres no dispute that Fs actions  were wholly unfair and unreasonable.  Having looked at 
all the evidence available to me, F misled Mr C for over a year and claimed various 
applications had been made when they hadnt.  Theres no evidence that the bridging  loan or 
several of the mortgage applications were  made  at all by F. As a result, I have no hesitation 
in finding that all of the fees paid by Mr C to F should be refunded in the manner outlined by 
the investigator in his final view and another  £1785 should be paid to Mr C. As Mr C was 
always going to pay broker fees, I dont think that its fair or reasonable for the new brokers  
to be paid by TenetLime.
Ref: DRN73351843Further, Fs actions meant that Mr C didnt  remortgage as he planned and he ended  up 
paying two mortgages on a higher interest  rate for a lengthy period due to Fs unfair and 
unreasonable behaviour. Its arguable whether  remortgaging  would really  have been in 
Mr Cs best interests but the reality is that Mr C clearly  wanted to remortgage, and did 
remortgage when  his new broker got involved.  If Mr C had got the mortgages F misled him 
into believing that he was applying for, he wouldve paid less that he actually paid. Having 
reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied  that another £1,293 will fairly  and reasonably 
compensate Mr C for this financial loss.
Im not persuaded that the lender Mr C says wont lend to him in the future due to the events 
caused by Fs actions  actually wont  lend to him for that reason. I have read what  Mr Cs new 
broker has said, but I must also bear in mind what the lender told the investigator. Different 
reasons were given  for its refusal to lend.
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  to Mr C. Money  
never truly compensates for trouble and upset, and I must  bear in mind this services  
guidelines. £500 is clearly not sufficient to compensate for the stress and upset caused by 
misleading a consumer for over a year; nor does  it fairly or reasonably  reflect the sheer 
volume of chasing  Mr C undertook, both with F and the various lenders involved when he 
realised things were not as F said. We dont award compensation on the basis  that the 
investigators view wasnt accepted by a business  or how a business chooses to disclose  
evidence to this service; we award  on the basis of the trouble  and upset actually suffered by 
the consumer.  Having considered all the circumstances, I think overall compensation of 
£1,250 is fair and reasonable,  though  I would  comment  Mr C has reacted tremendously  well 
to a situation which couldve caused others to become seriously unwell.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and TenetLime Ltd should pay Mr C in total 
£1,250 compensation for trouble and upset,  and £3,078 for financial loss (ignoring the 
£8,828 paid to date for financial loss). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 26 March  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7335184