K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he was given by TenetConnect Limited (TCL) in 2012 to 
transfer his occupational pension scheme  to a personal pension.  He is concerned that this 
might not have been in his best interests.  Mr W says that he was persuaded to transfer on 
the basis that his occupational pension wasnt secure and it was better if he transferred 
before the scheme failed. It was suggested  to him that he should  take advantage of an 
enhanced transfer value  being offered by the occupational pension  scheme provider.  
Background
In 2012 Mr W was advised by a TCL representative to transfer  his defined benefit (final  
salary) occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits to a personal  pension. TCL was 
appointed by the OPS to provide advice to members  about the possibility of transferring their 
benefits. TCL would  not charge Mr W a fee for providing that advice.   
Mr W says he was unemployed at the time the advice was given and says he should   have 
been treated as a vulnerable client. He suggests he should not have been  given such  
financial advice at this time. 
Mr Ws complaint  was partially upheld by TCL.  It said that the advice to transfer  was 
appropriate but the fund chosen for investment after transfer was not. It said the risk rating of 
the fund that was advised was 9 on a scale of 1 to 10. But Mr W had been assessed  as 
risk level 7. However, TCL said that Mr W had not been disadvantaged by this because  his 
pension fund value  was higher than it would have been had an appropriate fund choice been 
made (although it did not explain what fund choice should have been made or on what  basis  
it calculated Mr W would  not have  been  disadvantaged).
It should be noted that when Mr W referred  his complaint to this service, TCL raised 
concerns about  whether Mr Ws complaint  would  fall within our jurisdiction. That issue was 
considered by another ombudsman, whose  decision  was that the complaint would fall within 
our jurisdiction. Therefore  an investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Ws 
complaint.
The investigator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. She agreed that the fund choice  was not 
appropriate but felt that the pension transfer  was not unsuitable.  In summary she said:
The growth rate needed to achieve better  benefits than the OPS at retirement was 
achievable. 
Mr Ws circumstances were such that he required some  cash from the transfer (the 
enhancement amount). So this would be a motivation. 
The flexibility of the personal pension to which the transfer was made  would have 
been attractive.  
Mr W did not have to pay for the advice and the charges on the new personal 
pension were low. 
The investment  fund chosen within the personal  pension was likely of a higher risk 
than was appropriate for Mr W. A calculation should be carried  out to assess if Mr W 
had suffered a loss. 
Ref: DRN71129492Mr W did not agree with the investigators assessment. In summary  he said:
The circumstances surrounding  the transfer  have  not been  fully taken into account.  
The OPS provider  paid the TCL representative  to provide advice and this is a conflict  
of interest. The transfer benefitted the OPS  provider. 
He was vulnerable at the time because of his unemployment  TCL should not have 
given him advice in that situation.  His judgement was clouded  by the inducement  of a 
cash payment. The offer of a cash payment was the main reason  he transferred  
given he had need to support his family. He was desperate for cash. He was not an 
insistent client, he was vulnerable.
He was not given clear  information about  what  he was giving up by transferring  his 
pension. He was not told what his likely pension would be from the OPS or that this 
was guaranteed and how the personal pension would compare. He was not informed 
of the seriousness  of transferring his benefits.  
He does not believe the suggested  redress adequately compensates for the advice 
he was given. That redress should include the losses  caused  by transferring. 
The investigator was not persuaded to alter her assessment. She thought  the fee payable by 
the OPS to the TCL representative would likely have been paid whether it recommended the 
transfer or not. She felt the material issue was that Mr W had not paid it and therefore the 
financial benefits of transfer were  not affected.  She recognised that Mr W was unemployed 
but this was a reason he would have  wanted  to go ahead with the transfer. She also felt 
there was no way of knowing  what exactly would have been supplied  by the pension in 
future  the transfer has to be judged as suitable or not based on the circumstances at the 
time. 
Mr W did not accept the investigators  assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint . He reiterated his points of complaint  and said that the cash payment was his 
motivation to transfer - but TCL should have refused to offer advice in his circumstances.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W had deferred OPS  benefits deriving from about six years service.  In 2012 Mr W was 
offered an enhanced transfer value should  he decide to transfer his benefits from the OPS. 
The enhancement  was about 10% of the transfer value. Mr W opted to take this amount as a 
cash sum rather than it be applied to his pension  transfer value. It is clear from the parties 
submissions that this was attractive to Mr W because he was unemployed and had to 
support his family; he was married with three  dependent  children.
 
I am conscious of Mr Ws position  at the time and this must have been a very difficult 
situation. However I cannot agree  with the premise that TCL should not have given him 
advice in that situation. Whilst  Mr W may well have  felt under pressure with respect to 
finances, I dont  believe that he couldnt  make a reasoned choice at that time as to what to 
do  which  here was essentially whether to transfer  and receive  a cash  payment or retain 
the benefits with the OPS but forgo  the cash payment. It was Mr Ws choice to make as to 
Ref: DRN71129493which route to take and I do not believe TCL had a duty of care to prevent him from doing 
so. Having said that, TCL should still have provided suitable advice and set out sufficient 
information and guidance so that Mr W could  make an informed decision as to what  choice 
to make.  
I have seen a Pension  Transfer Questionnaire that Mr W completed before the advice was 
given. This noted  that he was unemployed and that he had deferred benefits in the OPS. 
The only change in future circumstances that Mr W envisaged was to gain employment. In 
terms of Attitude to Risk in respect of the OPS, Mr W ticked category 7 on a scale  from 1 
to 10. This was described as: 
In general,  Moderate  Growth investors are willing  to take on investment risk and understand 
that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They  are willing to take risk with a 
large proportion  of their available  assets. They will occasionally take gambles  where  they 
see the potential  rewards as being attractive.  They  will usually be able to make up their 
minds on financial matters  quite  quickly. While  they can suffer from regret  when their 
decisions turn out badly,  they are usually  able to accept that occasional poor outcomes are a 
necessary part of long term investment. Moderate Growth  investors  typically will usually be 
fairly experienced investors who have used  a range of investment products in the past.
Mr W indicated  that he had no concerns with the stability of the OPS and that:
I would like the ability  to increase my benefits  before and during retirement  through greater 
control and flexibility  over the way benefits are paid, depending upon  my circumstances at 
that time
In terms of the importance that Mr W attached  to these  pension benefits he indicated that 
they were:
A significant proportion  of my retirement  funding, which should only be exposed to limited 
risk where the potential  for reward is good.
In terms of death benefits Mr W indicated that:
I have very little life assurance cover  and my dependants  could do with extra sums if they 
can be made available.
And he would  ideally like these benefits  paid a s a lump sum.
In terms of spouses benefits he indicated:
The spouse's  pension  benefits under my ex-employer's scheme  are most important to me 
and I feel that these should  continue.
The questionnaire asked Mr W to prioritise his needs. Mr W indicated the following 
importance, from most to least  important:
1) Control and flexibility  of pension funds
2) Provision  for a partner's  and dependant's  pension
3) Lump sum benefit upon my death  before retirement
4) Tax free cash lump  sums at retirement
Ref: DRN711294945) The security of my pension fund
6) To be able to increase  my pension
7) The ability to retire early
There is a letter to Mr W from the TCL representative dated 22 March  2012. This set out the 
advisers recommendations  as to transferring Mr Ws OPS benefits. At the start of the letter  it 
was set out that:
After considering all the factors, we recommend that you transfer these benefits to a
Personal Pension, specifically a specially negotiated Legal & General Personal Pension. The
Transfer Value  quoted  from your previous employer's scheme  is £49,231.25.
The adviser set out, in respect of the enhancement offer:
As you are aware (OPS provider), with the Trustees' consent,  has agreed to offer an 
enhancement to the transfer option  available to you under the scheme.  This enhancement  
will only be available  to you for a limited period and limited funds have been allocated  to 
finance it. We would recommend  that you consider this advice as soon as possible  and in 
good time before the expiry date of the offer on 16 April 2012.
We do not recommend  you accept  the enhancement as a cash  payment. Throughout our 
report we have assumed  that any transfer value  will be the whole transfer  value amount 
including the enhancement.
In terms of Mr Ws priorities it was discussed that the most important was control and 
flexibility of his pension  funds. It was then set out that Mr W would have little control as to 
how his benefits  were taken from the OPS  but he would have much greater flexibility 
through a personal pension, including investment choice. The advice was to transfer 
because of the greater flexibility it would provide. 
The second  priority (mirroring that of the questionnaire) was Partner and Dependent 
pensions after retirement. As discussed, Mr W had expressed in the questionnaire that:
The spouse's  pension  benefits under my ex-employer's scheme  are most important to me 
and I feel that these should  continue.
It was confirmed that a spouses pension of 50% of Mr Ws pension would be payable from 
the OPS. Dependents pensions might also be payable. The advice was:
Although you have  said that your spouse's benefits are most  important to you, by leaving 
the benefits within your existing  scheme,  the Trustees, in accordance with the rules of the 
scheme, retain control  regarding the benefits  payable to you, your partner or dependants.  A 
transfer to a Personal Pension Plan provides  flexibility  and puts you in control of the way that
benefits can be paid.
There followed advice about  death benefits (they  would be higher initially  from the OPS) and 
tax free cash (that this would probably  be higher from the personal pension).
In terms of the security  of the OPS  it was set out that:
It is important to understand that Company  Final  Salary  Pension Scheme benefits are not 
"guaranteed". It is, effectively, a promise  from the sponsoring employer(s)  to contribute 
Ref: DRN71129495enough money into the pension scheme, now and in the future, to provide the pension  
calculated at retirement.
The Pension Protection Fund (PPF) came into force in April 2005  in order to provide a 
specific level of compensation to members of occupational 'final salary' pension schemes 
where the sponsoring employer gets into financial  difficulties.
During an assessment  period, before compensation is given, the trustees may only pay a 
transfer value  provided  certain conditions are met. Once the PPF has assumed responsibility 
for the scheme, a member would  not generally be entitled to a transfer  payment.
The attached analysis includes a specific section covering the PPF and its potential impact  
on your pension benefits. In reality,  therefore,  you can see that, whilst the starting  pension  of 
the PPF reflects 90% of your existing scheme's pension, by the time you reach normal 
retirement age the likelihood will be that the pension you receive from the PPF might 
represent 96% of your previous employers scheme's  benefits. This is an important  fact and 
one that you should consider carefully.
We have been  advised that your previous employer's scheme  is currently  in deficit  and no 
longer allows new members to join. We have  not been advised  whether this has affected  
your benefits.
Generally, where  the pension scheme  is in deficit, regulations  state that the sponsoring  
employers(s) should put in place a contribution  schedule, which is intended to improve the 
funding position  and clear the deficit.  We have been  advised that the most recent funding  
valuation of the Plan showed that on 31st March 2009 the funding position  was as follows:
There was a deficit of £26.5m  in the Scheme,  meaning that the Scheme was 67% funded  on 
the funding basis  adopted by the Trustees  at that time. As part of the sale of the (employer)  
a number of terms were negotiated in relation to the funding of the Scheme. The Company 
committed to pay £25m  to the Scheme. This has been a very material boost to the Scheme 
assets which were valued  at £78.52m at 30 June 2011. £5m of this funding was paid
immediately into the Scheme upon  completion  of the sale. The remaining £20m  was paid 
immediately into an Escrow Account to be held there for the benefit of the members of the 
Scheme. An Escrow Account is a bank account  held jointly by the Company and the 
Trustees where monies will be held for the benefit  of the Scheme. It is intended that 
contributions will be paid from the Escrow Account into the Scheme, although these will be 
staged to ensure that the Company can obtain immediate tax relief.  A first payment to the 
Scheme of £9.5m is expected on 1 April 2012.
The next formal  valuation of the Scheme is due as at 31 March  2012.
We have been  advised of the scheme's financial position, but we have not been  told, nor 
have we investigated, the financial position of the sponsoring employer(s)  as this is outside 
our remit.  You should consider the view of the sponsoring employer when considering  the 
likelihood of the scheme returning to a fully funded  level, also bearing  in mind the protection  
offered by the Pensions Protection  Fund.  We have  not been advised as to when the scheme
anticipates being  'fully funded' under the current legislative  basis,  although the current  
transfer value  has not been reduced  to reflect  the current deficit in funding  level.
Having transferred to a new plan, should  the Insurance  Company go into liquidation,  your 
benefits would fall within the Financial  Services Authority (FSA) compensation scheme, 
Ref: DRN71129496which is sourced by a levy upon all participating  UK Insurance and Investment companies.  
As such,  the level of security offered to you falls primarily upon the Insurance Company that 
provides the plan itself and the prevailing limits within  the FSA scheme.  
The advice was:
Before reaching a decision, you should  consider the financial stability  of your
ex-employer together  with their intentions regarding the future  of their pension scheme.
You state  that you have no concerns regarding your previous employer's scheme. However, 
given that it is currently  in deficit,  by transferring to an individual pension plan you would not 
be exposed to the risk of it closing, or benefits  being reduced.  This is especially relevant,  as 
the scheme is now closed  to new members. My overall recommendation is therefore, to 
transfer to a Personal Pension Plan.
The guidance about the ability to increase your pension fund included the analysis that had 
been carried out to determine what kind of return was necessary  to match  the benefits given 
up. It was set out:
The most commonly used 'Benchmark' to determine if such a transfer is to your advantage  
is to establish  a rate by which your benefits should  'grow' each year,  so that the fund 
available when you retire  is large enough  to at least match the benefits you would have 
given up from your existing scheme.  This rate of growth is referred to as the 'Critical Yield'. 
The assumptions used  to arrive at this yield are set out in the analysis. When making a 
comparison between the three rates of projection, please note that different assumptions
are made to give you a broader picture.
The 'Critical Yield required at your normal retirement age of 60 is 6.8% in a Personal 
Pension and 7% in a Section 32.
In almost all cases, it is our experience that people take their Tax-Free Cash  Lump  Sum at 
retirement. A more  realistic comparison, therefore, would be to see what 'Critical Yield' is 
required to match your existing scheme assuming you reduce  your pension to take the tax-
free cash  sum.
The 'Critical Yield 'required  in this instance  is 6.3%  in a Personal Pension  and 6.5%  in a 
Section 32.
Whether a 'Critical Yield' is realistically achievable  will depend on factors  such as policy 
charges; the economic situation; interest rates; inflation; investment returns;  your attitude 
towards investment  risk and future life expectancy. It is important to understand that these 
factors apply  not only during the period to retirement, but also at the time you choose to 
retire.
The amount  of pension that you will receive at retirement will be wholly  dependent upon the 
size of your fund and annuity rates prevailing at the time of annuity purchase. More  
information on investment; annuity and lump sum conversion risk can be found elsewhere in 
this letter.
The advice was:
Ref: DRN71129497Given your attitude to risk, together with the other  considerations, I believe there is a real 
prospect of increasing  your pension within a Personal Pension Plan by your normal 
retirement age..
My recommendation is to transfer to a Personal Pension Plan. Given  your attitude
to risk, together with the other considerations, I believe that there is a real prospect of 
improving your overall benefits, over the long term, by transferring to an individual plan.
Please remember that unless the Critical Yield  is achieved you are likely to get a pension 
benefit in retirement  of a lower overall value.
In addressing Mr Ws indication that, A significant  proportion of my retirement funding which 
should only be exposed  to limited risk where the potential for rewards  is reasonable, it was 
set out that:
Your attitude to investment risk will always be a main consideration. However, it could vary 
depending upon how large a percentage of your overall retirement  planning your previous 
employer's scheme  benefits represents.  Generally, where it forms a smaller  part, you might 
be prepared to accept  a higher risk strategy for this arrangement only. Naturally, the
opposite might apply.
These benefits should not be seen in isolation, but ought to be taken into account  together 
with past and future retirement planning.
The advice was:
Even taking into account the statement that you made above, my overall advice is that a 
transfer of your benefits will be to your advantage  as the 'Critical Yield is within  an 
acceptable rate and realistically achievable.
In terms of increase  in pension through the OPS  it was confirmed that:
If you do decide to transfer to a Personal Pension  the guarantees given in respect of GMP 
and LPI will be lost and your final pension will be dependent on other  factors  as covered 
below in annuity Risk and Investment risk.
There followed guidance about annuity risk (the level of income that might be obtained from 
a personal pension)  and investment risk (that the returns  for the personal  pension are 
uncertain and will depend on the investment returns obtained).
There is also a letter dated 18 April 2012 from the TCL representative, after Mr W had 
agreed to transfer.  This set out:
As you may recall, my advice for you was solely based around the suitability  of transferring
providing the entire enhanced amount was transferred  to the Legal  & General Pension and 
all the numbers and considerations  given within my report  were  based around this fact.
As you have now determined, via the Trustee  discharge form, that you wish to take part of 
the enhancement as a cash  payment, the figures and recommendations within  my report  
would have been different.
Ref: DRN71129498This is an important point which should  be noted as we will now treat you as an insistent 
client. Our advice is, therefore, limited  to the choice  of provider  and portfolio recommended  
based on your indicated level of risk and term to retirement.
I am including  a revised illustration from L&G to reflect this.
If, upon reflection,  you agree with my original recommendation - which  is that the entire
amount should  be transferred - you need  to let me know prior to the 25th April either by 
email or letter that you wish to alter your discharge  form to option A.
Should you wish to cancel  the discharge form entirely and remain within the scheme, again I 
will need  to ask for this in writing or email.
Finally, should you still wish to pursue your transfer which,  to re-state,  will be for a lower  
amount your pension  at retirement will be lower. Again, please note that my advice may 
have been different.
Should we not hear from you by the April we will assume that your discharge form, as it
currently stands is correct, and that this represents your insistence  to affect your instructions
contrary to our advice and the lower amount will be transferred resulting in lower
benefits.
An illustration was issued  which  confirmed that the yearly charges applied to the personal 
pension would be about 0.35%.
I have considered all the evidence  and the particular circumstances applying  to this transfer. 
Although I do have some concerns about  some of the information Mr W was provided with, 
overall I do not believe the complaint  should be upheld. I will explain why.
I would firstly say that there is no clear conflict of interest in the TCL representative providing 
advice at the behest of the OPS  provider. As an independent financial adviser TCL would be 
required to provide unbiased  advice  and that advice  should be judged  on its merits. I have 
done so here.
I have considered the priorities and intentions that Mr W indicated at the time, as well as the 
advice that was then given. Mr Ws top priority was flexibility. That would be provided to a 
greater extent by transfer  to a personal pension.  Mr Ws second  priority was providing  for his 
spouse and dependents.  I tend to the view here that the benefits of the OPS  in terms of 
spouse and dependents  benefits was understated and the advice was not balanced. 
Although this OPS  benefit was set out factually, it was then seemingly discounted on the 
basis that the trustees of the scheme  would have the final say on how to distribute those 
benefits. Whilst that is true, practically speaking it would  be highly unlikely that the trustees 
would decline to pay the benefits to a spouse and/or dependents (and the rules of the 
pension scheme  would probably  require  them to do so). That is not a plausible  reason for 
advising that such benefits are not worth having or not of significant  importance. Having said 
that, death benefits would still be paid from a personal pension,  albeit  they would be more 
likely paid as a lump  sum and it couldnt  be known in advance  whether they would match 
those given up. 
In terms of the security  of the OPS,  there  is considerable detail about the protections. The 
adviser having said that, whilst in deficit,  there were plans to improve  the funding of the 
Ref: DRN71129499scheme, he went on to recommend a transfer  and imply it was in Mr Ws best interests  -
seemingly on the basis  that the plan was in deficit.  That is not a sound basis to recommend 
a transfer and it was not warranted  on the information the adviser  set out. It seemingly 
implies or created the impression  that Mr Ws pension  benefits were in jeopardy when, on 
the basis of the information he set out, they were not. 
There then followed a discussion about the nature of the returns that would be required to 
match and improve on the benefits  provided  by the OPS. As the investigator discussed,  they 
were of a level where there was a reasonable prospect of these levels being achieved. That 
would still present a significant level of risk but Mr W had indicated  that he was prepared  to 
accept some risk in terms of these  benefits. It was also set out that if the returns were not 
achieved the benefits would be less than the OPS.   
As the investigator  said, hindsight should  not be used. It is possible that the personal 
pension might produce less income that the OPS (this was something  that was discussed in 
the advisers recommendation letter). This was always a possibility. The fact that it may do 
so is not evidence in itself that the advice was incorrect. Mr W has put forward  his own 
estimate of what pension might be provided by his OPS. I do not know how he has arrived  at 
that figure  it is significantly higher than the highest rate projected  by the transfer  analysis 
report in 2012.  What his OPS  might have produced and what  the personal pension  will 
produce is not certain. That will depend on, variously, as yet unknown future revaluation 
rates, investment  returns  and annuity  rates. 
What is material is what assumptions  were made in 2012 on a reasonable basis and, as I 
have said, the rate of return necessary to achieve  the same or increased benefits was within 
a range that could reasonably be achieved. 
The particular benefits that Mr W was transferring and his circumstances at the time should 
be taken into account. These benefits amounted to six years service.  And Mr W was in his 
mid 30s at the time the advice was given. The benefits were, relatively speaking, not likely 
to be the only benefits on which Mr W would be dependent in his retirement. He had a lot 
more time to build  up additional pension benefits. So the benefits were  not of the crucial 
importance that they might be if, say, they represented the majority of an individuals  working  
life. 
Furthermore, as Mr W says, he was under significant financial pressure and the cash  that 
would be supplied on transfer was important. I think this would have been material  and Mr W 
says this was the main  reason for transferring. 
I have set out that in some ways I do not believe what  the adviser set out was balanced in 
nature. However,  it should also be taken into account that Mr Ws main priority was flexibility, 
which the transfer did provide and the crucial issue of the rate of return  to be achieved  to  
match and exceed benefits was set out in a factual and accurate manner. I have said 
previously that it was not for TCL to prevent Mr W from transferring, that was a choice for 
him. And the fact he was unemployed does  not result in an assumption that he was 
vulnerable or unable  to make a rational choice. Mr W suggests  that with a clearer  
explanation of what he was giving up he might  not, or would not, have transferred. And I 
agree that the adviser could have given clearer advice that the OPS pension  benefits carried 
a significant level of guarantee that wasnt  present  with the personal pension.  But it was 
made clear that benefits from the personal pension were not guaranteed  and were 
dependent on investment returns, and also they could be less than those provided by the 
OPS. 
Ref: DRN711294910After considering the matter carefully, on balance  I dont  believe the advice was, taking into 
account the specific circumstances, unsuitable. Even if Mr W had been given clearer and 
more balanced  guidance (I have  referred  to those areas where I believe this was lacking in 
some respects) I believe  it more  likely  than not that he would have transferred. It is clear he 
had a pressing  need for the cash at that time that would be supplied  through  the transfer, 
and at the time there  was a reasonable assumption that he would not suffer  a material 
reduction in personal  pension  benefits  for what was, relatively  speaking,  not a likely high 
proportion of his pension benefits. There were  some disadvantages in doing that  in 
particular a level of guarantee was given up and there would arguably  be less protection  for 
his dependents. But I think that would have been  less important than the need for cash  at 
that time.  
I realise that the this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mr W but I do not uphold his 
complaint about  the transfer.
With respect to the recommendation of the investment fund, TCL has itself said that the risk 
level of the fund was higher than Mr W had indicated was appropriate for him. And it being a 
fund invested  almost entirely in equites, this would appear to be so. So I uphold  this element 
of the complaint. In the absence of a clear alternative appropriate fund I will suggest  what I 
believe is a fair redress  calculation. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
My understanding is that Mr W has previously  transferred his personal pension  to another  
pension provider.
What should TCL do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, TCL must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
TCL should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, TCL should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
Ref: DRN711294911If TCL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been  taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed  to 
be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TCL deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Mr W how much  has been  taken off. TCL should give Mr W a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Personal 
PensiontransferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if TCL totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
 Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
Ref: DRN711294912  The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude.
 The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that TenetConnect Limited  should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple  
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 December 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7112949