K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V say GE Money Home Lending  Limited  mis-sold  them  a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs V bought the policy  in 2005 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a meeting. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr V only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £713.79 a month towards Mr and Mrs Vs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £39.17 a month. 
At the time,  Mr V was employed as an HGV driver. He has told us he was not entitled  to any 
employer sick pay and would have to rely on statutory sick pay only should he be unable  to 
work. Mr V has said he had no other means  such as savings he could use to pay the 
mortgage. Mr V has told us about  some medical conditions he experienced but these all date 
from 2007 onwards.  So Mr V was in good  health at the time of the sale in 2005.  
GE Money  has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage  account started  in August 
2005. 
Mr and Mrs Vs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Vs representative  says:
GE Money failed  to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs V 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Vs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means GE Money should 
have told Mr and Mrs V about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means GE Money should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs V 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN70064362The information Mr and Mrs V received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs V disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Vs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN70064363GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
GE Money,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so GE Money was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If GE Money  gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs V with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether GE Money gave Mr and Mrs V sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN70064364-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs V, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs V 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs V 
and GE Money, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs V know they had a choice?
GE Money  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
GE Money  has been able to show us a lot of the paperwork that was completed at the time. I 
note the PPI application form and the mortgage  offer both describe the PPI as optional. 
And looking at the mortgage application form I can see a discussion took place around         
Mr and Mrs Vs priorities for protecting their mortgage and it seems they were concerned 
about paying the mortgage if Mr V wasnt working.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs V knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did GE Money  provide advice?
It is clear from the paperwork Ive seen that GE Money provided advice during this sale. 
This means  GE Money had to advise Mr and Mrs V with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that GE Money took some  steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs V. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and      
Mrs Vs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although a demands 
and needs statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs V had a need 
for the policy  by asking questions about  their wider circumstances such as any health 
issues and existing means  I dont think  it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded GE Money  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs V given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded GE Money advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded GE Money  did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs V, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr V met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs V had a need for the policy  Mr V would not have received any employer  
sick pay if he was unable to work  due to illness, his redundancy benefits  are likely to 
Ref: DRN70064365be limited and they didnt have any savings  they could fall back  on. The policy would 
have helped Mr and Mrs V manage the consequences if Mr V was unable to work.
-Although Mr and Mrs V say they were financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs V. 
There was nothing  about Mr Vs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And Mr V has not  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions he had in 2005 that could affect his ability to claim
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
job condition, the requirement that Mr V be disabled  or unemployed for 30 days 
before he could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given 
The fact the policy  protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  and the 
potential consequences  should Mr and Mrs V be unable to make the repayments on 
loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  GE Money  gave Mr and Mrs V 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what GE Money was recommending  to them  and make  an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs V was given a broad description of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr V 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs V would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  GE Money  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before    
Mr and Mrs V agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs V Im not persuaded GE 
Money did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  GE Money  gave Mr and Mrs V all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN70064366In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Vs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and  
Mrs Vs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Vs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs V about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Vs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs V have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that GE Money ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did GE Moneys shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs V? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs V suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that GE Money didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs V. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude    
Mr and Mrs V suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs V would have still taken out the policy, had GE Money done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded GE Money  took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs V, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs V have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if GE Money had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs V would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs V say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN70064367The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs V had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when GE Money advised them that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr V was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs V was given about the cost was 
clear as this was set out on the application  form. But the information about other aspects of 
the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.   
Im not persuaded GE Money made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs V would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Vs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs V thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr V knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr V 
wasnt a permanent employee.;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr V be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs V pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs V from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr V was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr V wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr V didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and    
Mrs V might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
Ref: DRN70064368to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs V from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs V, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs V had known Mr V could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his job or any paid work which  in the insurers view he might reasonably  be qualified for, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would have done. And I accept it may 
have given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been overly  
concerned given that if Mr V was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation  
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
GE Money  may not have  told Mr and Mrs V that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for, 
but Mr V had limited  other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs V would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr V be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs V would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr V was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not    
Mr and Mrs V would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Vs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs V would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Vs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Ref: DRN70064369Mrs V found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs V believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs V in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude GE Money  should pay Mr and Mrs V compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs V think GE Money  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
GE Moneys  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why GE 
Money failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information GE Money gave Mr and Mrs V, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Vs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find GE Money negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs V and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that GE Money  had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs V in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN700643610
Ref: DRN7006436