K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about U K Insurance Limiteds  handling of her contents insurance claim.
background
In June 2018, Mrs B called U K Insurance to make a claim on her contents insurance policy.  
Her daughters mobile phone had been stolen while she was abroad. UK Insurance  
accepted the claim and arranged to replace the phone with their third party suppliers.
The third party supplier  didnt have the phone  in stock in the colour Mrs Bs daughter  
originally had. But they did have stock of another colour which they could  send to Mrs B the 
next day. Mrs B accepted the different colour,  and the replacement phone  was delivered.
In early July 2018,  Mrs B called U K Insurance again as her daughter  was experiencing 
problems with the phone  she thought it was faulty. U K Insurance  said the third party 
supplier could collect the phone and inspect  it. Or Mrs B could take it to an Apple store who 
would likely  replace the phone if it was faulty  due to its age.
Mrs B and her daughter went to the Apple  store, which  they said took around  four hours of 
their time. Apple inspected the phone and didnt find any faults. But due to Mrs Bs concerns, 
they replaced the screen under the Apple  warranty. 
After a few days,  Mrs Bs daughter  started to experience similar problems again. Mrs B 
called U K Insurance to complain and ask for the phone to be replaced or a cash settlement  
given so they could replace the phone themselves. 
U K Insurance upheld Mrs Bs complaint. They apologised for the service  shed received, 
and recognised the time shed spent  sorting out the phone. They gave  her £300 
compensation. But they didnt agree to replace the phone. They said because  Apple had 
repaired the phone, they were no longer liable or able to replace  it  so shed need to go 
back to Apple. Mrs B remained unhappy.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Bs complaint  thought  U K Insurance should offer to 
replace the phone. He said Mrs B took the phone to Apple  on U K Insurances advice. And 
they didnt make it clear  that if Apple carried out a repair, they wouldnt be able to help Mrs B 
with any future problems relating to the phone.
U K Insurance didnt agree. They said theyd recognised the miscommunication with the 
phone by compensating Mrs B with £300. And they werent satisfied, based on the report 
received from Apple,  that anything was actually wrong with the phone. U K Insurance asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed  to me.
While reviewing the complaint, I contacted U K Insurance and Mrs B for some further 
information. In summary, Mrs B told me her daughter was still using the phone  as she had 
no other option  but that she was still experiencing difficulty in doing so. U K Insurance  said 
they would  need to see substantiate evidence of a fault  and without that, they wouldnt 
make any further offers  to Mrs B.
In early December 2018, Mrs B got in touch  with our service  to say her daughter  had 
experienced a further fault with the phone. She said the screen  went blank and no longer 
worked at all. This meant  she couldnt use the phone properly  including answering  calls. 
Ref: DRN71374952Mrs B phoned Apple  who said shed have to go into store.  After  a couple of hours,  Mrs Bs 
daughter got the phone working again.
Around 26 December  2018, Mrs B advised her daughter had slipped and damaged  the 
phone in the top corner. They took the phone  to the Apple  store on 31 December 2018, and 
they carried out a diagnostic  check.  Apple found the screen to be damaged and replaced it. 
After replacing the screen, Apple carried out further tests but they were unable  to calibrate 
the phone  and screen. Apple then replaced the phone. 
Mrs B remained unhappy  because Apple could only replace the phone  with a reconditioned 
phone.
U K Insurance didnt know if the screen  damage  was caused by the damage  when Mrs Bs 
daughter slipped  over. And as Apple had now replaced the phone,  they didnt think there 
was anything more  they could do.
In January 2019, I issued a provisional decision.  I said;
the original claim
U K Insurance met Mrs Bs original claim by offering to replace the stolen phone with a new 
handset. Im aware  they provided Mrs B with a different colour  handset. However, Im 
satisfied Mrs B agreed to this at the time.
U K Insurance gave Mrs B the option  of waiting a few days  for the original colour  to be in 
stock, or to go ahead  straight away with a different colour for the replacement  phone. Mrs B 
accepted the different colour to allow her daughters phone to be replaced straight away. So 
I dont find theyve acted  unreasonably. And I wont be asking them  to do anything  
differently.
miscommunication
After Mrs B had received  the replacement phone, she called within a few days to advise her 
daughter was experiencing faults.  U K Insurance hasnt been able to provide the phone call 
which took place  between them and Mrs B. However, I have seen a copy of the contact 
notes. 
I dont know for certain what was said between U K Insurance and Mrs B about  either  
replacing the phone or taking it to the Apple store. But based on what  Ive seen, it seems  
more likely Mrs B chose  to take the phone to the Apple store  so she could get it looked at 
more quickly. I dont  think this is unreasonable. If her daughter was experiencing problems 
with the phone like Mrs B says she was, its reasonable shed want  things sorted out quickly.
However, it seems U K Insurance  told Mrs B, Apple would likely replace the phone due its 
age. And that didnt  happen  but they did repair it. I havent seen any evidence to show 
U K Insurance told Mrs B if Apple repaired the phone,  rather  than replace it, she wouldnt be 
able to continue  her claim with the insurance  company.
U K Insurance upheld Mrs Bs complaint because they admitted their communication  with 
her could have been  better. They gave  her £300.  Having considered this, I think  its a 
reasonable amount based on the circumstances of what  happened. So while I recognise 
they could have been clearer,  I consider Mrs B would have still chosen to go the Apple store.  
Ref: DRN71374953And I think U K Insurances compensation of £300 fairly recognises  the inconvenience  
caused. So I wont be asking them  to compensate Mrs B further. 
should U K Insurance replace the phone?
first fault  July 2018
Mrs B took the phone to the Apple store to look for a fault. Ive seen the report  from Apple 
dated July 2018. The report states;
Issue: Customer reports that their display  is over sensitive.
Steps to Reproduce:  Ran Mobile Resource Inspector  no issues found.  Verified in 
store.
Cosmetic Condition: No damage to the display. All buttons functional.  Camera not 
damaged. No damage to the enclosure.
Proposed Resolution: Replace the display in store under Apple Limited  Warranty.
I consider this confirms  no issues were  found  with the mobile  phone. But Apple  decided to 
replace the display in store under Mrs Bs warranty.
I appreciate Mrs B was told by U K Insurance Apple would likely replace  the phone  if a fault 
was found. But based on the report from Apple,  I dont consider a fault was found. And I 
cant comment on the actions of Apple and why they decided to replace the screen. I can 
only focus on the actions of U K Insurance. 
A few days  later, Mrs Bs daughter started  to experience problems again. And Mrs B asked 
for the phone to be replaced. U K Insurance didnt agree to this. They  said because Apple 
repaired the phone, they wouldnt be able to help Mrs B further.  And they werent satisfied  
there was a fault with the phone based on the report from Apple.
I dont consider U K Insurance  have acted unreasonably  by not offering to replace the 
phone. Im satisfied,  based on the report from Apple, no faults were identified. And as the 
screen was replaced  by Apple under their warranty, I dont think  its reasonable for Mrs B to 
expect U K Insurance to replace it. I say that because, while  I recognise U K Insurance 
supplied the phone to Mrs B, they would have to be satisfied the phone they supplied had a 
fault. And based  on the report from Apple, it didnt.
Im also aware Mrs Bs daughter continued to use the phone for a number of months  
although Mrs B has reported  the phone always had problems.
second fault  December  2018
Ive explained  above why I think U K Insurance have acted reasonably  in not replacing  the 
phone in July 2018. However, Ive also considered their actions when Mrs B reported a 
second fault in December  2018.
Firstly, Mrs B said the screen stopped working  completely in early  December  2018.  Mrs B 
said she phoned Apple  and they said shed have to go in store. But after a couple of hours,  
Ref: DRN71374954her daughter  was able to get the phone working again. Around  26 December 2018, Mrs Bs 
daughter slipped  while using the phone  and caused  damage to the top corner.  
Mrs B took the phone back to Apple in late December 2018.  The report  from Apple at this 
time states;
Issue: Customer came to store with cracked  display on device and embedded 
Ambient Light Sensor  failure.
Steps to Reproduce: Verified by technician at the bar with diagnostics.
Cosmetic Condition: Cracked top right corner of the display. Minor scruffs around  
stainless steel enclosure.
Proposed Resolution: Replace device. During  repair device was unable  to calibrate 
after several attempts  and the device  need to be replaced. Display  did not fix issue. 
Device has now been replaced for cost of display.
While this report does confirm a fault with the phone, I dont think its clear whether the fault 
existed prior to Mrs Bs daughter causing damage  to the phone  by slipping.
Ive considered her comments that her daughter experienced  issues  with the phone before  
this time, and her comments  regarding  the screen going blank earlier in December 2018. But 
I havent seen  any evidence to confirm a previous  fault.  And therefore, I cant  reasonably 
ask U K Insurance to replace the phone.
So while I thought U K Insurance  could  have been  clearer about the overall process  when 
dealing with Mrs Bs claim,  I thought the £300  compensation  was enough to reflect  this.
And I didnt  think I could fairly ask U K Insurance to replace the phone  or offer a cash  
settlement when I hadnt seen anything to confirm  a fault was present with the phone theyd 
supplied Mrs B.
Mrs B responded to my provisional decision and didnt agree. In summary  she said;
U K Insurance  provided her with poor service  during the original claim because  they 
told her the correct colour was in stock but then had to wait nearly a week to be told it 
wasnt in stock. And they said to speed up delivery the phone would have to be in a 
different colour.
Apple  wouldnt  replace  the screen  if the phone wasnt faulty. She also provided an 
online transcript from Apple to show they wouldnt replace  a screen  to placate 
customers concerns.
Neither U K Insurance  nor the third party  offered to collect  the phone to get it 
inspected.
The time taken to return the phone to the Apple  store  was five hours, not around four 
as stated in my provisional  decision.
She does not believe  U K Insurance dont have a copy  of the call recording where 
she first told them about the faults.
U K Insurance  said Apple  would definitely  exchange the phone if a fault was found.
I would  not see a report to confirm the fault as there no tests done. And thats 
because Mrs B said she wasnt  willing to make more trips to the Apple store.  
U K Insurance  supplied the faulty  phone and expected  Mrs B to sort things out.
Ref: DRN71374955U K Insurance didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mrs B feels about  this complaint. Our rules require me to 
determine a complaint by considering all of the evidence from both parties in order to decide 
whats fair in all of the circumstances. Where the available evidence is contradictory, 
incomplete, or even  missing altogether, I have to reach my conclusions on the basis  of what  
is more likely to have  happened on the balance of probabilities.
the colour of the phone
Ive thought about what Mrs B has said that she had to wait nearly a week for U K Insurance  
to tell her the original  colour of the phone wasnt in stock. I dont doubt this would have  been  
frustrating. But Ive already found Mrs B accepted the different colour in order  to receive the 
phone more quickly. So I wont  be upholding the complaint on this part.
Apples transcript regarding the first fault
Ive considered the transcript from Apple  which Mrs B has helpfully provided. Apple 
confirmed the repair ID showed Mrs B had issues with an overly sensitive display, which  is 
why they replaced  the display under the warranty. 
Ive copied a relevant extract of the transcript below;
Mrs Bs daughter on behalf of Mrs B:
I do not have that phone anymore. I need  it to be confirmed that Apple would not 
replace a screen if they did not find a fault?
Apples representative:
I cannot make up information.  It says it was replaced for overly  sensitive display that 
was it. If they are not willing  to accept that information it sounds like they are giving 
you a hard time here, no fault is in regards to no accidental damage, or liquid 
damage that could  cause  the issue. Outside of that we cannot  make up information,  
or force them to accept that.
Im satisfied the representative from Apple  has confirmed that no fault means the issue  was 
not caused by accidental  or liquid damage. This is an important point for me to consider as it 
confirms the first fault (overly sensitive  display)  wasnt because of any accidental  damage 
caused by Mrs B or her daughter. However, it doesnt  confirm  that there  was an internal fault 
present. And thats what Id need  to be satisfied of, in order  to fairly uphold  this part of the 
complaint. 
I also think its only fair that I place more  weight on the report made and provided by Apple at 
the time.  I say that because the report itself was written by a technical  person at the time of 
inspection. The transcript Mrs B has provided shows the representative from Apple relied on 
the information made in the report.  Because of that, its unlikely the representative wouldnt 
comment on the presence of an actual fault anyway because it wasnt mentioned in the 
original report. So while Ive considered this information, it hasnt changed my decision. And 
Ref: DRN71374956thats because  despite the additional information Mrs B has provided, I havent seen enough 
to satisfy me that the replacement  phone  U K Insurance provided Mrs B was faulty.
inspecting the phone
Mrs B has said neither U K Insurance nor the third party  offered  to collect the phone  to 
inspect it. And the time her and her daughter spent taking the phone  to the Apple store  was 
around five hours rather than four. But I still think Mrs B would have chosen to take the 
phone to the Apple store.  And thats  because shes said she wanted things sorted  out 
quickly.  I dont think that would have happened  if shed  sent the phone back  to the third 
party or U K Insurance  for inspection. 
the call recording and what  was said
I appreciate Mrs B doesnt believe that U K Insurance dont have a copy of the call recording 
when she first told them about the faults. I agree it would be helpful  to listen  to the call itself. 
But its not always the case that a business  has all of the information we have asked for. 
Therefore, I have to base  my decision on what I think is more likely in the circumstances.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said as well as what U K Insurance  has said. U K Insurance  
has also provided a copy of the notes which were taken during the phone call. 
I understand Mrs B thinks these arent  necessarily  correct and she says they could  write  
anything to suit their side. But these notes were  written before Mrs B made a complaint. And 
she hasnt provided  anything substantial to show that the notes theyve provided are 
incorrect  including  that they said Apple would definitely replace the phone  if a fault was 
found. Even if they had said this, I dont think its reasonable for U K Insurance to specify  
what actions another  company would take  and even if it was, a fault wasnt found anyway. 
So I dont  consider the outcome would  have been  any different. Nonetheless, Ive found that 
U K Insurance could have been  clearer in their communication to Mrs B. But Ive explained 
why I think the compensation amount of £300  is enough to recognise  the distress  based on 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
the replacement  of the phone
Mrs B has said I wont see a report to confirm the fault as no tests were  done. And thats 
because she wasnt willing to make  more trips to the Apple store. But there  were  other  ways  
Mrs B could have had the phone inspected,  and I consider, if her daughter  wasnt  able to 
use the phone in the way Mrs B has described,  that she wouldnt have been able to continue  
to use it for a number  of months.
I also appreciate Mrs B thinks U K Insurance should  have done more  to help her. And at 
times, I think they could  have  as explained  above and in my provisional decision.  But I 
think theyve fairly  recognised this by their offer of compensation.
Overall, Im not satisfied  the replacement phone U K Insurance provided Mrs B was faulty. 
And its for that reason,  along with the reasons Ive explained above,  that I cant fairly ask 
them to replace the phone or offer a cash  settlement.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN71374957Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137495