K822xcomplaint
J, a limited company  has brought  a complaint against TSB Bank  plc (TSB).  J is represented 
by Mr B. Hes told us that TSBs well-publicised IT problems in 2018 adversely affected Js 
business accounts, causing J financial loss and Mr B considerable anxiety. Mr B has asked 
the bank to pay J compensation of over £50,000. TSB accepts there were IT problems and 
that J deserves  compensation but not at the amount,  or for all the reasons, that Mr B claims.
background 
Following a long-planned upgrade, TSB suffered a major IT failure beginning late April 2018. 
This was well-publicised and is not in dispute. TSB says it warned customers that some 
online services would  not be available for a short period over the weekend  of 20 to 22 April 
but would  be available  from the Sunday evening  of 22 April. Unfortunately, this wasnt the 
case and the IT upgrade caused a number of issues, which  continued for nearly a month.
J organises six recruitment events at different locations  each  year. TSBs online banking  
problems coincided with a two-day recruitment  event in late April 2018  where  J was present.
Mr B tells us that, because of TSBs IT issues, he couldnt access  his online business  
banking accounts  between 20 April and 17 May.  So, he couldnt  check  his accounts to see 
whether his customers at the recruitment event  had paid their invoices which  were  due to be 
paid during the week of the event.  He says that some customers  told him that they were 
unable to pay into Js bank account. And, at the same time, Mr B told us he was unwilling to 
upset other  customers by inadvertently chasing  those whod already made their payments. 
Also, he says he was unable to pay his own key suppliers when their invoices fell due, in 
part because he didnt know the status  of his own balance.
Mr B told us that, in trying to improve the situation, he made over 25 calls to TSB over the 
course of the week beginning  23 April.  And especially on 27 and 28 April during  the event 
itself. Besides hours spent on the phone, he also visited two TSB branches to try to resolve  
his banking issues, taking  a taxi between them. He says TSB branch staff were  also unable 
to confirm which of Mr Bs customers had paid their invoices. And the branch was unable to 
resolve the situation, despite staff spending over an hour on the phone to the TSB fraud  
team. Mr B says he had to make payments of over £5,000 to his suppliers, from his personal  
bank account,  to cover his liabilities as they fell due.
Mr B tried to reduce his risk by opening a new account at another  bank which  didnt have IT 
problems. He then got his accountant to contact his customers to explain the problem and 
re-invoice each customer with details of his new bank. This resulted in a cost to the 
business. Cash flow issues  also arose  from which, Mr B tells us, his business  took several 
months to recover. He has said that because of these, he had to make his graphic designer 
redundant and this resulted in the payment of redundancy costs.
Mr B says the IT issues also had a major impact on Js sales, compared  to the same event 
the previous year. This is because Mr B has told us that he spent most of the two-day  event 
trying to sort out his banking issues rather than talking to customers to drum  up further 
business, as he usually did.
Mr B tells us that not only did the IT issues have a significant effect  on his businesss income 
and cashflow for a prolonged  period but also had consequences for his mental  wellbeing. 
The pressure of running a business  event without having access to his accounts, dealing  
Ref: DRN79742752with suppliers, not knowing  whether  customers had paid or been paid, poor sales,  significant 
cash flow problems, and making a redundancy,  caused Mr B considerable stress and 
anxiety. Hes told us this had an impact on his resilience and ability  to make further sales.
Mr B wants  TSB to pay for the direct  costs incurred by J as the result  of TSBs IT failures. He 
also asks that TSB put his business back in the financial position it would have been had 
TSBs IT issues never occurred. This involves  compensation for the supplier payments made 
from his personal account, the costs of redundancy, and the lost re-bookings.  Mr B originally 
asked for total compensation of £54,877 but subsequently revised this figure down  to 
£53,744. His claim can be broken down as follows:
taxi fare: £30
accountants fees: £630
payment from his personal  bank account: £5,000
redundancy costs:  £4,369
financial loss due to fewer rebooks at event: £31,672
impact on sales performance since event: £12,043
Total: £53,744.
Our investigator thought that J was due compensation but not on the scale  that Mr B 
requested. He recommended that TSB should  cover the taxi fare of £30 and the 
accountants costs  of £630, with interest on the actual costs of £660 from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. He also recommended payment of £1,000 compensation 
for trouble and upset. This totals £1,660, excluding interest.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators recommendation and asked for his case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Because of this, the case  has come to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
general disruption to the business
Its not disputed  that TSB suffered a major IT failure beginning late April 2018. And TSB 
accepts its IT problems in April and May caused  many of its customers difficulties. But it 
says it had warned  customers they wouldnt be able to make  or receive payments between 
20 April and 22 April. Mr Bs event took place over 27 and 28 April but continuing problems 
with TSBs IT system prevented him from accessing  and managing his account.
Mr B has explained in various letters  and emails, which Ive read, the impact  this had on J, 
and on himself. And Ive listened to seven recordings of telephone conversations  between  
Mr B and TSB between  24 April and 1 May 2018.  Its clear Mr B had continuing  difficulties 
with both his business and personal accounts.  He couldnt log on for days and he wasnt 
sure which of his customers had paid him even after the event was over.
But, having  listened to the calls made over the weekend  of the event,  these mainly  
concerned Mr Bs attempts to make a personal  payment of £25,000. This had been flagged  
for security reasons. It was intended  to move money out of Mr Bs personal TSB accounts  
because of the Financial Services Compensation Schemes limits. So, this was essentially a 
Ref: DRN79742753personal concern  rather than a business  one. And the time and trouble Mr B took in respect  
of this was nothing to do with J. So, I cant consider it as a part of this complaint.
And, having listened to the calls,  Mr B doesnt raise  any complaint about being taken away  
from the event and losing sales. He even  says at the end of one call that the event went well 
but could have gone better. This was the perfect  opportunity to raise these issues  but he 
didnt say how worried he was that he couldnt  pay his suppliers. And he says he visited  the 
branch to sort out his personal payment. So, again, this doesnt appear  to relate to access to 
Js business account. In one call, Mr B says he could access his business accounts online, 
just couldnt see his personal one. And, having  looked at the phone bill he sent us, I see that 
the vast majority of calls he made to TSB seem to have been outside  work hours so didnt 
impact the bulk of his attendance at the event.
Listening to these  calls, Mr B did mention that he couldnt make payments to his own 
suppliers as the telephone banking option had an upper financial limit. But then, he should 
have been able to make payments of his invoices in batches over a number of days. And 
this would have  solved the problem  of paying  his suppliers.
Ive also seen a document  sent by Mr B which lists seven suppliers which  he says were  paid 
between two and twelve weeks  late. Ive also seen  a list of twelve  customers Mr B says paid 
between one and eight weeks late. He says these factors caused  J cashflow problems.
But Ive looked  at these invoices and Im not convinced these late payments can all be laid at 
the door of TSBs IT failure. One, for example, due to J on 3 April (several  weeks  before the 
IT problems) wasnt paid until 1 June.  So, while  Mr B is suggesting  that all his suppliers  
would have paid on time without the IT problems,  it looks as if some customers just pay late 
anyway. So, I dont  think its fair to assume that all the others  would have paid on time either.
And of Js invoices, the biggest was due to the exhibition venue. While this originally  seems  
to have been due on 27 April, it also states at the top of page  2 that the due date is 31 May. 
So, it does  looks as if the date has been  changed  or re-negotiated and Mr B didnt  actually 
pay it late in the end. So, I cant see that theres been any loss here.
Another invoice,  for I, is dated 23 March with payment terms of 30 days, so was presumably 
due by 23 April,  immediately after the weekend of TSBs upgrade. But as Mr B seems to 
have had access to his business  accounts  at the time, I dont see why he couldnt have 
made payments from these in batches.  And, if so, what prevented  him from paying this on 
time?
His invoice from F states the due date was 5 April and, Payment  terms; Due Now. So, if it 
was due immediately,  well before the IT problems, then he paid this late regardless.
The three invoices  due to M all have April issue dates. And if they all have implied terms of 
30 days to pay that would mean they fell due long after the IT issues occurred. So, I cant  
accept that IT issues were  the cause of late payment. And, as Ive said, Mr B had access  to 
his business accounts and the ability to make part payments  each day.
Another invoice  doesnt have a due date on it at all.
And Js debt to HMRC  was due months  after all these issues. And as all Js suppliers had 
paid by this point, I dont think the IT issues could be said to have had an impact here.
Ref: DRN79742754So, I accept that TSBs  IT problems did have some impact on J and on Mr Bs ability  to 
manage his accounts.  But most of his time seems to have been used in addressing  the 
personal matter. And it was this that drew him off from making  sales at the event. I think the 
problem of the upper financial limit which hampered paying suppliers could have been side-
stepped quite easily. And I think the dates of many of the invoices show that TSBs IT issues  
couldnt always be blamed for delays in these  payments by J or its customers.
taxi fare
Mr B took a taxi between  two TSB branches  to try to sort out the problems with his banking.  
He says he did this as a direct  consequence  of the IT problems. Because  he was working  
the event and so under  pressure to resolve the issue as quickly as possible.  And he missed 
out on rebooking  sales  at the event as a result.
But Im not convinced visiting the branches was really necessary that day. As I dont think 
the situation was that urgent. Mr B knew there was an IT problem from 20 April as he wasnt  
able to access his accounts. So, I think it would have made more sense to visit the branches  
either before or after the event. And he knew being away  from the event was going to impact  
sales as he only has six occasions  a year to make  sales in this way. So, why take time out to 
visit TSB then? Hes said he wasnt planning on pestering his customers  that day for 
payment anyway so I dont think he really needed  to know  there and then whod already 
paid. Mr B would  probably have  been better off staying at the event and drumming  up 
business. So, I dont  think its fair for TSB to shoulder the cost of a decision that Mr B didnt 
really need to make, and I dont think TSB should cover  the £30 cost involved.
accountants fees
TSB expressed surprise that Mr B opened a new business account  elsewhere because they 
say it can take several days to get a new account up and running.  They  also said Mr B didnt 
close his TSB account and went on using it. But Mr B was told both by bank  staff and the 
banks advisers by phone that they couldnt confirm which of his customers  had tried to 
make payments unsuccessfully. I dont  think the existence of a new bank account  would  
necessarily solve all Mr Bs problems because it wouldnt  get around  Js disrupted cash-flow. 
But I think it was reasonable for him to do what he could  to reduce the risks to J, particularly 
during a critical period, by asking his accountant to re-invoice his customers.  And whether he 
closed his existing  accounts or not is beside  the point. So, I think  it would be reasonable for 
TSB to cover  the cost of Mr Bs accountant, which was £630.
payment from personal bank account
Mr Bs told us he had to make payments of over £5,000 from his personal account to cover  
Js liabilities at this time.  But as this complaint is being brought by J, not Mr B, J hasnt  lost 
out by receiving cash payments from Mr B. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
TSB to cover  this. 
I can understand the inconvenience for Mr B of having to dip into his personal account but I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this was more than a stop-gap measure. And I think 
Mr B ought  to have  been able to recover these  funds from the business accounts in the 
longer term. So, if Mr B believes hes lost out personally here, he may want  to consider 
bringing a complaint in his personal  capacity. 
redundancy costs
Ref: DRN79742755Mr B has told us that, in June 2018,  he had to make Js graphic designer redundant because 
of the cashflow problems caused by the IT issues and this had a cost impact.  TSB says that 
the redundancy, and its related costs, were some  time after their system upgrade in April.
Im not sure I agree  with TSBs reasoning here.  But even allowing for any cashflow problems 
experienced by J, I dont  think  that the redundancy was necessarily  caused  by the IT 
problems. The fact Mr B decided to make  a redundancy after the IT issues and cashflow  
problems took place, doesnt mean it was necessarily the result  of them. Redundancies take 
place all the time for a variety of reasons.  I simply  havent seen enough evidence  of cause 
and effect here, so Im not persuaded that there was a direct  link to TSBs IT issues.
financial loss due to fewer rebooks at event
Mr B has told us he typically books 20% of stands for his next event at the previous 
exhibition. Because  he spends  the whole time walking around  speaking to exhibitors face-to-
face, generating sales. He said this is easier than contacting people afterwards, or by cold-
calling. He also explained that as CEO  of J, hes personally responsible for making  around  
80% of sales as well as managing the relationships with customers and suppliers.
Mr B provided a spreadsheet showing the re-book value of the same event in 2017 was 
£42,627 while the value of his re-bookings in April 2018 was only £10,855. Hes also told us 
that at his last exhibition,  in October  2019,  he managed to generate £46,044.50 of forward  
bookings over that two-day period  for April 2020.
But Im not sure that all these sales figures  can be put down solely to Mr B. Because Mr B 
isnt the only person  working for J. It looks like theres also his son and at least  one other 
salesman. Mr Bs year-by-year comparison of sales seems to show that he makes  around  
25-30% of sales  overall.  And looking at the twelve invoices he sent us for 2017 show,  seven 
of those sales were made by another employee. So, did Mr B not being  present at the event 
drastically affect Js ability to get sales, given there were  other  salespeople in attendance? 
Having considered these factors, I dont think Mr Bs absence  from the event for those hours 
was what necessarily impacted Js sales. These were significantly down on the previous 
year anyway. So, it looks like Js other sales people, who werent  phoning or visiting the 
branch, were  having a difficult time too that year.
So, while I agree J suffered  some loss, theres  no guarantee that Mr B would have  made the 
same level of sales hed made previously. Or that he wouldve  won new customers.  There 
are a number of reasons why previous customers might decide  not to rebook with J, 
including their own circumstances. Also, different  events and different times of year are likely 
to generate different kinds and levels of sales, and there are always impacts  which  no 
business or businessman can ever really foresee.  Taking into account all Js salespeople, it 
looks as if, overall, Js sales were around  50% less in 2018 than the previous year. And by 
Mr Bs calculation,  his personal sales were  around £12,000 lower in 2018  than 2017.  
TSB says that although they can see Js re-bookings were  lower than the previous year,  
because of the variables Ive mentioned,  they say they cant  be held responsible for covering 
all this loss as its too speculative.
So, having  considered the figures Mr B has provided, I think the impact of the IT failure may 
possibly have had some impact on sales. But the existence of so many variables means its 
Ref: DRN79742756speculative to say J definitely lost all those sales because of TSB. And as Ive said, I dont 
think it was necessary for Mr B to take time out to visit branches  that day. And he knew  
being away from the event would have  some impact on sales but he still chose to visit TSBs  
branches anyway. And on one day of the event,  when  Mr B spent over four hours on 
telephone calls, most  of this was outside the event  times.
So, for all these reasons  I wont  be asking TSB to award J any compensation for loss in 
sales. But primarily because I dont think it was the IT failures  that had such  a significant 
impact on Js sales. Because it wasnt necessary for Mr B to spend time in branch and on 
the phone, particularly because most,  if not all, of this concerned  his personal accounts not 
Js. And Js sales were down year on year anyway as was the performance of the other 
sales people.
impact on sales  performance since event 
Mr Bs told us that dealing  with TSB and, at the same time, knowing he was losing sales  
caused him significant stress which made it harder for him to make further sales  in the 
future. Im sympathetic  towards Mr B and appreciate  the pressure  that the IT issues  must 
have placed him under.  But the complainant  here is J  not Mr B. So, Im only looking at loss 
caused to J. And as I dont think its reasonably foreseeable,  or directly caused by the lack of 
access to online banking  that, several months  after the event, J was prevented from making  
sales. So, I wont be asking TSB to cover this part of Mr Bs claim.
distress, anxiety and inconvenience
As the CEO  of a small family business, Mr B told us the cumulative effect  of his problems, 
took their toll on his mental health  and resilience. But as Mr B isnt the eligible complainant, 
Im unable to award him compensation for distress and anxiety that hes suffered personally.
J, as a limited company,  is the eligible complainant. So, in looking  at this area Im 
considering the impact  TSBs IT problems had on the company. I think  that the lengthy 
period it took to put these  right and, for J to regain its balance, deserve some compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused to the company. Ive listened to all the telephone calls on file 
(and even  as late as 1 May, TSBs call handler admitted that calls were still taking 40 
minutes for them to pick up). And I also accept Mr B spent many  hours trying to sort out Js 
problems. And this would  have  been better spent in seeking new business or just addressing  
Js needs. So, I think TSB should  pay J £1,000  for this part of his complaint.
the response to my provisional  decision
TSB responded saying they had no comments to make on my provisional decision.
Mr B responded saying  he completely  disagreed with my provisional decision.  He asked to 
be sent copies  of the telephone recordings for the period  under  review so he could listen to 
them himself. He told us he needed  to do this in order  to draft a response to my decision.  
TSB gave  us authorisation to share these recordings and we sent them to Mr B and 
extended the deadline for his response. Then, when Mr B told us he was very busy  with 
work, we agreed to extend his deadline  again. Following the expiry  of this deadline  we hadnt 
heard back  from Mr B.
And now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
Ref: DRN79742757my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Ive seen nothing  that gives me any reason to depart from the findings Ive already  reached 
in this case. So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that, under all the circumstances, it would be fair 
and reasonable for TSB Bank plc to pay Mr B as follows:
£630 in accountants fees;
8% interest on the £630 from the date Mr B paid the accountant  to the date of 
settlement by TSB;  and
payment of £1,000 compensation for the inconvenience caused  to J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7974275