K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that American  Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt properly  
advise him about  the required monthly payments on his card.
background
In November 2018 Mr M applied for an Amex Charge Card online. A few days  later he called 
Amex to discuss the card and repayments  - he was thinking of cancelling  the card because  
he didnt think it was suitable for his needs.  Amex  told him he could make minimum monthly 
payments to repay  any outstanding balance,  so Mr M decided to keep the card. But the 
information Amex  gave Mr M in this call was wrong  as hed taken  out a charge card,  not a 
credit card, the balance needed to be repaid  in full every month.
Mr M used  the card, but didnt make any repayments. When Amex called him about  this he 
told them  he couldnt  pay the card off in full. While Amex agreed to cancel the card and let 
Mr M pay off his balance in monthly instalments, Mr M didnt agree to this because  Amex 
would report this to the credit  reference  agencies.
Mr M has complained that, because  Amex gave him incorrect information, they mis-sold the 
card. Amex  has accepted they mis-informed Mr M during the phone call on 30 November 
2018, and have reduced his outstanding  balance  by £25 to compensate  him for this. Mr M 
didnt accept this and has brought his complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service.
Our investigator found Amex had provided Mr M with terms and conditions which said the 
balance needed  to be paid off in full each month.  Mr M had also asked about  payments on 
an online  chat, and had been  told the balance needed to be repaid in full each month. 
Because of this, and because Mr M had successfully applied for the card before Amex  told 
Mr M the wrong information, the investigator didnt feel the card had been  mis-sold.
But he did agree that Mr M relied  upon the incorrect information given to him by Amex  after 
hed been accepted for the card.  He felt this influenced how Mr M has used the card and that 
he wouldve acted differently if hed been  given the correct information. Because  of this, the 
investigator recommended that Amex pay Mr M an additional £75 to for the distress  this had 
caused him.
The investigator also said that Amex has a responsibility to correctly  report  accurate 
information to the credit  reference agencies. He felt it would be unreasonable  to expect 
Amex not to report how Mr M was choosing  to repay  his card, as it could lead to him unfairly 
obtaining credit  from other lenders who didnt know about this in the future.  Because of this 
he didnt agree with Mr M that Amex shouldnt report anything.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator. He said hed applied for the card through  an advert in 
Instagram, and he thought he was applying  for an interest free credit card - a charge card 
wasnt suitable for him. He says the incorrect information Amex  gave him when he phoned to 
cancel convinced him to remain.  Mr M is frustrated  by the way Amex  has acted and thinks 
that reporting matters  to the credit reference agencies will act like a default and mean he 
wont be able to get credit from other lenders if he needs to.
Ref: DRN71346042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex provided Mr M with the details about  how they expected  the card to be repaid in the 
terms and conditions and on an online  chat, before they approved  the card. The Instagram 
advert also clearly showed that the balance  needed  to be repaid in full each month. Because 
of this I agree that the card wasnt mis-sold.  Mr M had all the information  he needed to make  
an informed choice before  he applied. While I appreciate that Mr M chose not to read the 
terms and conditions before he applied, I dont  think that this choice alters the facts.
But I do agree  that Amex  told Mr M the wrong  information when he phoned them. Had they 
also told him at this point  he would need  to repay the balance  in full every  month; Mr M 
would most  likely have  cancelled the card. He was looking for an interest free credit card,  not 
a charge card that essentially provided very short-term interest free lending. But I dont  think 
this should mean that Amex should  write-off the balance because  of their error  - Mr M spent 
the money knowing he would have to pay this back, even if he thought he could pay it back  
interest free over a longer period.
Amex has offered Mr M a repayment plan, with no interest  or fees.  This is reasonable and it 
fits with the sort of borrowing  Mr M thought  hed applied for. But if Mr M had got the interest  
free credit card he thought hed applied for, then Amex wouldve reported how he maintained 
this to the credit reference agencies. Because of this, I think  its also fair they report  how he 
maintains his repayment plan. I appreciate Mr M feels this will stop him from getting credit  if 
he needs to, but different lenders apply different rules when deciding  to lend. So I cant say 
that Amex reporting matters to the credit  reference  agencies will mean  that Mr M wont be 
able to get any further credit.
This has clearly caused Mr M some distress. He relied on the information Amex  told him 
before he used his card,  and this information was wrong. I agree with the investigator that 
the £25 already paid by Amex isnt sufficient for the distress caused. But Amex provided 
Mr M with the correct information before  he applied  for the card. Because of this I agree that 
an additional  £75 (making a total of £100)  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ms complaint. American Express  Services  
Europe Limited must pay Mr M an additional  £75 to compensate him for the distress  caused 
by the incorrect  information they gave him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7134604