K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt transfer  some money to the correct person and 
with the way its dealt with him. He wants to be refunded the money received by the wrong 
person. 
background
Lloyds said in its final response that it upheld Mr Ns complaint on the basis that hed not 
been kept up to date with the investigation.  To put things right it was paying him £62 for his 
calls and the inconvenience hed experienced. But it cant  ascertain how the payments 
couldve been transferred to the wrong beneficiary  on two separate occasions. Mr N went 
into a branch and asked  for two transfers of money to be made to his mother. Hed provided 
his mothers card and before the payments were made he was asked to check  and sign both 
payment slips to confirm he was happy to go ahead. But the money was sent to his brothers 
account. It cannot agree there  were  any errors  made in the branch.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said even if we thought  Lloyds 
had done something wrong we wouldnt ask it to refund to Mr N, any of the transferred 
money wrongly received by his brother.  Its Mr Ns brothers responsibility to pay it back  even 
if he says hes spent  it. And as Lloyds  says the payment  slips which  Mr N signed show 
where the money was being sent to. There arent any other  records suggesting Lloyds made  
a mistake.
Mr N remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears Mr N gave  the cashiers in the Lloyds  branch a card from which  they took the 
recipients account  details to complete the payment  slips. On each occasion Mr N was asked 
to check and sign each  of the transfer forms to confirm he was happy for the payments to be 
made. This he did.
It isnt apparent why the money ended  up in Mr Ns brothers  account and not his mothers 
account as he intended. But it was sent by Lloyds to the account details on the payment 
slips Mr N was asked to check and signed. Although Mr N has said he didnt check the 
details on the forms as he trusted  the cashier to complete them  correctly,  it remained his 
responsibility to check  the information on the forms to ensure it was correct  and the money 
was being sent to the correct recipient and account he wanted.
Taking everything into account  I dont think on balance that theres  anything  to show  Lloyds 
made an error. Its also not Lloyds fault if his brother spent  the money and now says he 
cant pay it back to Mr N. Thats a civil matter between them.
I also think Lloyds dealt  fairly with Mr Ns complaint about the way he was treated and its 
payment of £62 for his expenses  and the inconvenience caused by failing to keep him 
updated appears fair.
Ref: DRN74265662Overall I dont think I can reasonably require  Lloyds to now do or pay any more  to Mr N, 
including refunding any of the money  that was sent to his brother, as he would like. And I 
dont see any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7426566