K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J say that UK Insurance Limited  has been responsible for poor claims handling 
causing them considerable trouble and upset.
Any references to UK Insurance include acts and omissions by its agents.
background 
Mr and Mrs J (the policyholders) are represented by their son Mr J2.
In 2013 there was an escape of water  at the policyholders home. They  made a successful 
claim on their home insurance policy.  The works were deemed  complete by April 2015 when 
UK Insurance closed the claim file.
Unfortunately in March  2017 there  was another escape of water at the policyholders 
property. It became apparent that this incident was related  to the issue  reported in 2013. UK 
Insurance ultimately accepted the earlier works  hadnt fixed  the problem and that it was 
responsible for putting things right.
Mr J2 has a number of concerns  about  what happened to his parents. For example, the 
impact that the failure to fix the original problem has had on the family. And even following 
the reporting of the leak in 2017,  he points  to delays and poor claims  handling which means 
matters have still not been  resolved.
UK Insurance accepts its responsible for the initial inadequate repairs to the policyholders  
home. And it accepts  that some of its subsequent  handling of their claim shouldve  been 
better. But it felt that the policyholders couldve done more  to report the original works hadnt  
been completed effectively. And it says some of the delays were the result of the difficult  
circumstances the family  faced with regards Mr Js health.
When Mr J2 approached  our Service, UK Insurance had already paid the policyholders  a 
total of £950 in recognition its failings.  And in its final response it offered them a further 
£1,150 for the trouble  and upset it had caused.  The policyholders didnt accept  UK 
Insurances last offer.  Thats  because they felt it didnt fully recognise  the extent of the 
impact the poor management of their claim had on them.
The investigator thought UK Insurance should  increase  its offer of compensation from 
£1,150 to £3,050. Mr and Mrs J didnt accept this recommendation, so their complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
And in light of the recent agreement between  the policyholders and UK Insurance  about a 
claim for motor mileage costs,  I now agree  with the investigators recommendation. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN71387472I should start by noting that UK Insurance has only accepted our consideration of the 
policyholders case up until 26 January  2018. That was the date of its final response  to their 
original complaint points.  Any matters relating to the subsequent handling and bringing their 
claim to a close are the subject of a separate complaint.
We're all inconvenienced occasionally  in our day-to-day lives, including in our dealings  with 
other people, businesses and organisations. But theres agreement here that UK Insurance 
didnt provide the service Mr and Mrs J shouldve received.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this, Ill think about whether it's fair to 
award compensation for trouble and upset.  This isn't intended to fine or punish  a business  
which is the job of the regulator. But when something's gone  wrong,  a business's  recognition 
of the emotional  and practical impact can make  a real difference.
For me to award compensation, I need  to decide what the impact  of UK Insurances actions 
was. Thats  separate from the trouble and upset caused by the original event itself, the 
consequences of what the policyholders  did or didnt do and their situation itself. These 
things were beyond  UK Insurances control.
UK Insurance accepts the original escape  of water in 2013  wasnt dealt with effectively. For 
example, its case notes say the original repairs were never completed and were poor 
enough for the work to have to be redone. While it accepts prime responsibility for what 
happened and acknowledges Mr Js vulnerability, it also thinks the policyholders  couldve 
done more to report the status of the initial works  at their home before 2017.
I think UK Insurance  is right to assume  the main  responsibility for what happened with the 
original works. I understand its agent  even  invoiced for repairs that it never  completed. If its 
agent is prepared  to behave in such a manner with UK Insurance, then there must be a 
serious question  about  how they treated Mr and Mrs J. For example, Ive seen case notes 
about its alleged  behavior toward  the policyholders. So, I give the policyholders  the benefit of 
any doubt in terms  of reporting on the original works.
If UK Insurances agent had responded effectively to the claim made in 2013 none of the 
subsequent issues  wouldve  arisen.  That means  it must have primary responsibility for things 
that happened after the original claim was closed in 2015.
Mr J2 complained to UK Insurance  about its failure  to put their home right after the escape  of 
water in 2013. And he led the work on their claim from 2017  and the subsequent complaint.  
In respect of the later, he raised various  concerns including, delays in getting  the work  
completed; agreed repairs being  removed from a schedule of works; late payment of care 
home fees; poor communications  about a second  leak at the property; and a general lack of 
ownership of the claim.
When UK Insurance responded to the complaint  Mr J2 brought  on behalf  of his parents, it 
awarded  £1,150  to the policyholders  (this was in addition to the £950 it had compensated 
them previously). This was in recognition of its failure to put things right after the 2013 
incident (£1000) and for its role in contributing to delays between  October  2017  and January  
2018 (£150).
Ref: DRN71387473Sadly Mr J experienced  serious health  problems  after the original escape  of water. I believe  
he was in hospital from early in 2017  and wasnt released until October  the same year. He 
wasnt able to go home because the repairs hadnt been finished. So he had to go into a 
care home, which UK Insurance agreed  to pay for. But of course this meant he was away 
from his wife and family.
I accept UK Insurances point that Mr Js health was a complicating factor  in resolving this 
claim. Not only in terms of the policyholders ability to pursue it, but also in settling on what  
works were required at their home.
For example, we know that the project included items not related  to damage caused by the 
insured peril.  Adaptations were  required  to the policyholders home to cater  for Mr Js needs. 
And I understand that some  of these matters needed local authority approval. This 
contributed to a delay  in selecting materials and I can see that even when this had been 
done the choices made  by Mrs J pushed works over the approved budget  limit.
That said,  I note the weighting UK Insurance  placed on its proposed award for trouble and 
upset. I think theres merit in its argument  that some of the matters which led to delays were 
beyond its control. But I also think the weighting it places on not putting the repairs right in 
2013, correctly  reflects an acceptance  of its prime responsibility for how events unfolded.
Given the extensive and protracted  effect  I can see this failing had on the policyholders  and 
their family, I think UK Insurance  was right to offer a payment of compensation reflecting the 
severe impact it has had. Inevitably  the award of any amount in these circumstances is not 
scientific. But on balance Im persuaded that the investigators judgement here in terms of 
how much  UK Insurance should compensate Mr and Mrs J was about right.
I say this because  particularly in the circumstances, UK Insurance shouldve had a firmer 
grip on this case than it did. For example, even though it was paying considerable sums  for 
Mr Js care home and alternative accommodation  for his wife and son, I cant see any active  
management of the arrangement. That meant Mrs J was staying in hotel accommodation 
many miles away from the care home where  her husband was.
Mr J2 laid out in some detail the impact of these  arrangements  on several members of his 
family; the uncertainty of their situation,  the isolating effect on Mrs J2; the missed events; the 
lengthy daily return journeys by family members to ensure their mother  and father saw each  
other. Its not clear  what if any attempt  there  was to mitigate this situation, for example by 
finding Mrs J accommodation  much closer to her husband. This in turn mayve eased  the 
burden on other family members.
Mr and Mrs J rejected  the investigators recommendation on compensation. But theres been 
a significant development since then. I asked UK Insurance to consider the costs incurred by 
Mr J2 and his brother  in giving their mother lifts to visit their father. To be fair, it doesnt seem 
as though UK Insurance had been made of this claim. So, Im pleased that its now made a 
fair offer to meet those costs which the policyholders have accepted.
Given this latest development, Im now satisfied that the award recommended  by the 
investigator represents a fair outcome.
Ref: DRN71387474my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding this complaint.  I require UK Insurance  Limited to 
pay £3,050 to Mr and Mrs J in recognition of the trouble and upset it has caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7138747