K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about a fixed sum loan he has with Shawbrook Bank Limited. In particular, 
he complains that he was given incorrect information that made him take out the loan.
Furthermore, Mr F suggests  the loan was unsuitable for him as he did not need it. 
In addition, Mr F complains he was vulnerable when he agreed to enter  into the contract. 
Mr F considers Shawbrook ought reasonably  to have been aware of this at the time.
Moreover, Mr F complains about  the quality of one of the doors which  was financed by the 
loan.
Mr F is represented  in his complaint. However, for the sake  of simplicity in this decision I 
have referred to all of the submissions from Mr Fs representative as being made by Mr F.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Fs complaint in my earlier  decision,  which  was a provisional 
decision. But so that all relevant information  is on this one decision I will repeat that 
background again here.
In February 2015  Mr F tells us he was retired and suffering from a number of chronic health 
conditions. He explains that one of the ways his illnesses manifested was through  
pronounced trembling and confused speech. Moreover, his much-loved wife had recently 
died after a long illness. Mr F had cared  for his wife for what he indicates  were three 
emotionally gruelling years prior to her death. Furthermore, he was grieving and receiving 
bereavement counselling. He tells us that his late wife had always  dealt with their joint 
household finances. So, he suggests  he was ill-prepared and vulnerable  when a cold-calling 
employee of a limited  company I will call A showed  up at his door one day.
According to Mr F, As employee told him some of his windows and doors were not secure 
and left him open to being burgled.  Mr F said the employees assessment  left him confused  
and frightened. It was in this unsettled state that he signed up to a ten-year loan to pay for 
two doors  which  he thinks  were vastly overpriced.  The cash  price of the doors was £4,600 
but Mr F suggests their real market value at the time was £2,000. In any event he said he is 
now paying around £11,000 all in all for the two doors.
Once Mr F reflected on the transaction he tells us that he felt ashamed and didnt tell his 
close relatives and friends anything  about  the contract for quite a while. Theyd noticed the 
appearance of the doors, but he refused to say anything about  them.  Then, years later, Mr F 
became even more  ill and had to move into sheltered accommodation.  At this point, August 
2018, he told his relatives and friends about the doors. Mr F says he could easily  have 
afforded to pay for the doors outright. He suggests  that he didnt really understand what  he 
was signing up for when he took out the loan. He tells us that one of the doors has already 
started to degrade in any event. That said, Mr F did accept that the sad irony is that [the 
doors] were  well installed and have improved [ his former]  home.  Mr F complained to 
Shawbrook in late 2018.
Shawbrook saw things  very differently. It said it had sent Mr Fs complaint  to A. A had 
provided a detailed response from its legal team to Mr F, and Shawbrook  agreed with this 
response. In summary As response  was that Mr F had understood the nature of the 
Ref: DRN79354092agreement he was entering into. And that nothing had put it on notice at the time the contract 
was made  that Mr F was a vulnerable consumer. Neither did it agree that the doors were 
unsuitable.
Further, Shawbrook added that the doors had improved the security of Mr Fs home which  is 
what Mr F seemed to accept and want. So, it didnt agree  that the doors could  have been  an 
unsuitable product  if they did the job they were intended to do. Shawbrook  realised though  
that Mr F might be saying it was the loan, not the doors that was the unsuitable product. But 
it didnt agree that the loan was inappropriate in any case. Further  still, it pointed out that a 
copy of the loan contract had been  left with Mr F after he entered into the deal. If Mr F had 
wanted to he could have cancelled the loan within the 14 day cooling-off period.  But he did 
not, and this was the first it was hearing  of there being a problem with the loan.
Shawbrook added neither A nor it knew anything about the circumstances that Mr F 
suggested made him vulnerable. Indeed, it suggested neither it nor A had any right to ask 
about a customers  health if they show no signs of anything being  amiss. Its position is that 
during the visits  there was nothing about  Mr Fs demeanour or behaviour that should  have  
alerted it or A to Mr Fs situation.
Shawbrook expressed  sympathy for Mr Fs bereavement. However,  it said,  the sales  
representative had known nothing about this loss either. It said As sales  representative had 
not cold-called. Rather As foot canvasser had cold-called that was the initial  contact. But 
thereafter every time As employees visited theyd had an appointment to do so.
Shawbrook added that the sale representative  who had been in Mr Fs home, at Mr Fs 
invitation, went through everything with Mr F in a two hour meeting. Mr F was offered the 
choice of paying by credit or by cash,  and it was his choice to go down the credit route. 
Shawbrook also noted that because Mr F opted to use credit to pay as opposed to cash,  he 
got money off the price  of the doors, quite a lot of money. The cash  price  of the doors had 
originally been  £5,572  but he got them for £4,600. In short, Shawbrooks stance is that from
beginning to end the sales process had been  entirely appropriate.
Once the complaint was with us both parties  provided further information.
Mr F told us that around the time he entered into the contract with Shawbrook  he had 
savings of thousands of pounds and a regular relatively large  retirement income. His point 
was that if hed really  wanted the doors he could have used his savings to buy the doors 
outright. Instead,  he signed up to a ten year agreement that meant  the doors ended up
costing him much more  than they would have  done  if hed used cash  to buy them.
Mr F added that at more  or less the same time as he was entering  into his contract with 
Shawbrook his representative was also applying for a power of attorney to help him with his 
day-to day financial affairs. He explained new doors were not a priority  at that difficult  time, 
the cold calling salesman  alarmed [me] by claiming  [my] existing doors were not safe against 
intruders. [I] had problems  with comprehension. [I] didn't fully understand the closely  typed, 
multi-page document and the implications. It took  several attempts [to sign the contact] 
because [I] wasn't capable. [I] persisted because the salesman frightened  [me]. He provided 
further medical evidence that he believed supported what hed said about both his 
vulnerability, and about how this would  have presented. He also suggested  that he did not 
have the capacity to contract,  when  the contract was made. In Mr Fs opinion the medical 
evidence he sent us also demonstrated  his lack of capacity at the relevant  time.
Ref: DRN79354093Moreover, Mr F indicated he thought As employees had deliberately targeted him for their 
own gain. He suggested that this was a consistent  deliberate pattern of behaviour  and other 
elderly people  had been treated in the same way.
Shawbrook explained  that As salesman had visited Mr F on three  separate occasions. It 
took three attempts to get the contract right. On one occasion the incorrect  interest rate 
information was included in the contract. Another  time the contract was not dated. It roundly 
rejected the notion that As employees had targeted Mr F for their own gain. Further,  in 
response to a question  from us about whether any of the employees had a history of 
complaints about  them  which were similar  to Mr Fs it confirmed there was no such history.
I took a look at Mr Fs complaint. I came to the following conclusions for the following 
reasons.
Mr F has a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. A fixed-sum loan is a form of 
restricted credit. Fixed-sum loans are regulated loans and there are various rules and 
protections about how they operate, including those  set out in the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA).  In particular the provisions  of both Section 75 and Section 56 of the CCA, 
are relevant  here.
In deciding whats a fair way to resolve  Mr Fs complaint, I have to take account of relevant 
law, amongst other things. Section 75 and Section 56 are relevant law, as I have already 
mentioned. Therefore, Ive taken them into account. But that doesnt  mean  Im obliged  to 
reach the same outcome  as, for example, a court might reach  if Mr F pursued a claim in 
court, which is something he has told us he might do. This service is an informal  
alternative to the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr F has a claim for misrepresentation (i.e. here 
meaning a false statement of fact that induced the consumer to enter into the contract) or 
breach of contract against the supplier he can also bring that claim against Shawbrook  
provided certain conditions are met.
As the supplier of the doors also operated as credit broker here in relation to the loan 
Section 56 is also relevant law. Section 56 operates in such  a way that if in the course of 
credit broking the credit broker makes a false statement of fact that induced the consumer 
to enter  into the contract then the lender can be responsible for that.
It does not seem that Mr F was in the market for new doors,  until the cold-calling canvasser
came along.  Moreover,  Ive not seen anything  about the state  of Mr Fs original doors. Mr F
was surrounded  it seems, by concerned family  and friends  who kept a close eye on him and
his welfare and none of them were alarmed by the original doors. This makes  me think  they
were not in a visibly poor state of repair.
Both parties  appear to agree that the cold-caller canvasser and or the salesman told Mr F 
that his original doors made him vulnerable to burglars. In the context  it appears  that As 
employees were suggesting  it was the condition of the doors that was the problem  rather 
than their location, I say this because,  as far as Im aware, the new doors  were  installed in 
the same  position  as the old doors. I dont doubt that visibly poor security  at entrance points  
is one of the things that makes a home more attractive to burglars. But that said, Ive not 
seen anything that in the circumstances persuades me that was the case with Mr Fs original 
doors.
Ref: DRN79354094For all these reasons I think it was unlikely that his doors were in such a condition  that they 
made his home vulnerable to burglars.  And I do find it likely  that because  Mr F believed  this 
statement he agreed to contract.
Moreover, Ive also thought about  what Mr F might  have  been told about  the loan. Mr F has 
shown information  to demonstrate that he was in a position to buy his doors outright and to 
do so easily. He does  not suggest  he knew anything about Section 75 rights and that 
influenced his thinking. He was retired on a fixed income, so perhaps less likely to want to 
take on a ten year loan. 
In all of the circumstances, Im satisfied  that if the loan had been  correctly explained to Mr F 
he would  not have taken it out. Especially given I am persuaded he was unused  to dealing  
with household finances. It does  not add up that with everything else going on, Mr F would, 
out of the blue, decide to take out a large loan for goods hed seemingly never previously 
contemplated buying. Moreover, the number of visits to Mr Fs home,  and the mistakes 
made on the loans  documents,  suggest  that attention to detail was lacking  in this situation on 
the part of the salesman. That too makes me think it is more likely than not that Mr F was not 
given accurate information. I will also add that just because Mr F did not cancel the loan 
within the 14 day cooling-off period does not mean  by itself,  hat he understood it or wanted it 
in the circumstances.
Shawbrook is correct  to suggest that if a person shows no sign of vulnerability  it would be 
inappropriate to explore this issue further. But I dont think  that is the situation  here.  Rather, 
given that the power of attorney was being applied for at the same time as the sale,  and 
given the wider circumstances I think there was enough to go on that further questions 
should have been asked.  Shawbrook has an obligation  to recognize vulnerable consumers
and to treat them correctly, even if the consumer  chooses not to volunteer all relevant
information about their status. Im not saying that Shawbrook needs to be an expert in this 
area, far from it. But it should  have enough  emotional intelligence  to identify this as an issue  
when it comes across it. Having said that nothing in the medical evidence suggests  Mr F did 
not have the capacity to contract.
For all of these reasons I do find, on balance, there  was relevant misrepresentation that led 
to this transaction and that it is fair and reasonable to ask Shawbrook to take action to put 
this right.
The law says that goods sold like this by a business to a consumer have to be of satisfactory 
quality. It also says the doors ought  to have  been fitted with reasonable skill and care. If 
either one of these  requirements were not met this could  be a breach  of contract. Mr F 
complains about  the quality  of one of the doors,  although he also suggests there was no 
problem with the quality of the installation work. That being so Ive only looked at the quality 
of the door.
The relevant  law also says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet  the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory considering any description  of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. Mr F bought two brand-new  wooden 
doors for £4,600 so in the circumstances, its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect those doors to be reasonably durable.
I note Mr F talks about one of the doors degrading. He also tells us this was mentioned in 
the survey done  when  his house was being  sold (we have not seen this survey). I dont have 
any further details  of what the degrading  is or what the likely cause is. I also see that A 
Ref: DRN79354095offered to investigate this further, but Mr F declined to allow  A access  to his former home to 
do this.
In the circumstances, I find that I dont have enough information to be able to safely  
conclude that the door was not of satisfactory quality.
In the light of what I said above  about  misrepresentation and Mr Fs vulnerability, I next 
thought about what Shawbrook should do to put things  right.
Mr F wants us to go further than the award our investigator recommended. Mr F talks about 
the doors being overpriced. He provided  a written quote that was not for a like for like door. 
He also tells us about a verbal quotes his representative got from suppliers, but weve  not 
seen anything from the suppliers to back  this up. He mentions we might want  to do our own 
market research to find out what the true market price of the doors was however, he 
suggests his representative has already done  that but the information  he has provided does 
not demonstrate the doors  were  overpriced.  In other words,  Ive not got nothing persuasive 
to show that when Mr F bought the doors in 2015  the market  price for these doors was the 
amount Mr F claims it was. Or to show that the price of the doors was so out of line with 
market pricing that it would not be fair and reasonable to agree that he can be charged the 
full amount.
Moreover, Mr F has sold his home. He cant return the doors to Shawbrook  which  is what  I 
might have said he ought to do, if he was still in his home. And it seems the doors  did 
improve his home according to what he has told us. And may well have helped the sale of 
his home  which  is something he has benefitted  from.
For all these reasons, I think it is fair and reasonable,  to find that Shawbrook  must refund all 
the cash payments  made which are over and above  the cash price of the doors. And it must  
add interest to that refund.
There has been a lot of to and fro here between the parties. Some of it I think  unnecessary,  
and I think Shawbrook did not take account of Mr Fs vulnerability even when it was told 
about it. 
Moreover, I think it likely  that Shawbrook would not expect or desire its customers  to feel 
ashamed and shaken  after taking out a product with it. But Im persuaded this is what  
happened here in the aftermath of the sale. 
In the circumstances I think it is fair and reasonable to make an award  for the distress  and 
inconvenience Shawbrooks  inappropriate actions most likely caused Mr F to experience. I 
think £400 is appropriate.
It would be a very serious matter indeed if the foot-canvasser and the salesman  were 
scouting for vulnerable consumers to make  unnecessary sales  to as part of a wider pattern 
of behaviour. And if Mr F had fallen prey to such a situation and Shawbrook was involved in 
it. However, whilst  I note Mr F has told us this is what happened  to him. The information I 
have seen does  not satisfy me that any such scheme was in operation or that he was a 
victim of it. 
My provisional decision was that Shawbrook Bank  Limited must:
Ref: DRN79354096End the agreement with nothing further  owed by Mr F, this is on the assumption that the 
payments Mr F has made  so far have  already exceeded the cash price  of the doors.  If 
this is not the case please  can the parties  let me know  this before I issue my next 
decision.
Refund all the payments  Mr F has made  over and above the cash price of the doors, 
such payments include  the deposit.
Pay interest on that refund at the rate of 8% simple per year.  The interest  to run from 
the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
Ask the credit reference agencies to mark the loan as settled.
Pay Mr F £400 for distress and inconvenience.
I invited Mr F and Shawbrook to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do 
that. They both did. Mr F responded to say that he had nothing further to add and it 
appeared he accepted  my provisional decision.  Shawbrooks response was it did not agree 
with my provisional decision,  but it had nothing  further to add.
my findings
I thank both Mr F and Shawbrook for their responses to my provisional  decision. Ive 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Also Ive reviewed the complete file again and 
revisited my provisional decision.
Neither Mr F nor Shawbrook have sent any new information or reasoning in response to my 
provisional decision. It follows I have reached the same conclusions  and for the same  
reasons as I set out in my provisional decision and repeated  again  above.
my final decision
My final decision is that Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further  owed by Mr F.
Refund all the payments  Mr F has made  over and above the cash price of the doors, 
such payments include  the deposit.
Pay interest on that refund at the rate of 8% simple per year.  The interest  to run from 
the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
Ask the credit reference agencies to mark the loan as settled.
Pay Mr F £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Shawbrook must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it Mr F 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the £400 from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at the rate of 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN79354097If Shawbrook  considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must 
send a tax deduction certificate with the payment  so that Mr F can reclaim the tax if he is 
entitled to.
Mr F should contact Shawbrook if he is unsure of the approach  it has taken and both parties 
should contact  HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know  more about  the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021..
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7935409