K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs C says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
The sale took place  when a postal application  was completed by Mrs C  so a RBS 
representative would not have been  present when Mrs C was completing the application  in 
her own time. RBS had to make Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent 
before adding it to her card.  RBS has provided a copy  of the application form that was 
completed at the time. For PPI to be added,  the option to take the policy had to be selected.  
I can see PPI has been  selected and Mrs C has signed the application. If Mrs C didnt want 
PPI she didnt have  to select to take it. Mrs C was also agreeing to an important  financial  
commitment, so I would  have expected  her to have looked over the form before signing in 
agreement with the information on it. So overall  I think RBS made it clear that Mrs C didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she may not remember this now many  years later.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs C has said she cant remember the sick pay she would have received from her employer 
at the time. Shes said she would have had some savings but cant  remember how much. 
Nevertheless, this policy  would cover 10% of the outstanding balance  of her account  for up 
to 12 months if she was too sick to work or she lost her job. And this would be in addition  to 
any other pay she would receive. And it wouldve allowed her to use any savings she had for 
other expenses, or keep them intact  for the future.  
Mrs C has said her husband would  have been able to help if she needed it. But that 
depended on her husband being able to do so when  she needed it which  wasnt  guaranteed. 
So taking everything in to consideration, I still think the PPI would have been useful.
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Ref: DRN73599682RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7359968