K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1988.
To avoid  confusion, I will call the person covered by the policy  as Ms W1 and I will refer to 
the late Ms W as Ms W2.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms W1 disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms W1 has said she wasnt told what the PPI was for, and had believed  it was to cover  the 
house  and I understand that to mean  that she though this was something like building 
insurance. The problem  I have is that this all happened over 30 years ago, and I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened so long ago. So it would be hard 
to know how Bradford & Bingley  explained  the PPI. And it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude 
that it was explained in a misleading way unless  there was reasonable supporting evidence 
of this. And I can see from surviving documents that a separate  application form was filled 
out for PPI, and only accident and sickness covered chosen (instead of also including the 
usual unemployment  cover)  which does suggest there was a some explanation and 
discussion about the type of policy wanted. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms W1 and Ms W2 as being particularly 
suited to their individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would have been for Ms W1 and Ms W2 to decide whether it was suitable. 
But, even  if it had made a recommendation,  I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself  unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Ms W1 (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. So it would have put off the time when they would need to fall back on any savings or 
other means  they may have had for paying  the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put them in a more secure position, if Ms W1 eventually lost income  due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when  they took it out.
Ref: DRN73930732Its hard to know how well Bradford  & Bingley explained the costs and benefits  of the policy.  
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Ms W1 and Ms W2 took the PPI. I say this because  the potential  benefits 
were likely to be greater  than Ms W1s sick pay, and the cost wasnt significantly high.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Ms W1 would have been  affected  by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W1 to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7393073