K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage with BoS in 1999. In 2010 Mr K bought  accident and 
sickness cover (PPI) which wouldve covered the mortgage  repayments  for up to a year at a 
time if he couldnt work. It also provided an additional sum which could be used for other 
expenses.
Mr and Mrs K say in their questionnaire  that it wasnt  made  clear  to them that the PPI was 
optional and they were told they had to have it as a condition of the loan. They  also say the 
costs werent explained.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs K 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr and Mrs K dont  suggest that they didnt agree to buy the PPI, but they say they were  told 
they had to take the PPI to get their mortgage.  BoS has provided evidence to show that Mr 
and Mrs K had held their mortgage for over 11 years by the time they bought PPI, so I think  
this shows clearly that Mr and Mrs K werent led to believe the PPI was a condition of the 
lending. And BoS has also provided the welcome  letter sent to Mr K after he agreed to buy 
the PPI. This describes  the insurance  as optional.
In addition to this, in Mr Ks questionnaire sent to BoS when he first complained,  he said the 
following:
I was concerned it I lost my job I wouldnt be able to pay my mortgage and as I receive no 
sickness benefits I told the (BoS) adviserwho  told me to take out mortgage protection. I 
had no other  insurance cover only life assurance.
So, despite  Mr and Mrs K intimating that they didnt want the PPI and they only bought it 
because they were told they had to, Mr Ks testimony  strongly suggests he was concerned 
about meeting  his mortgage repayments if he couldnt work and actively  sought cover for this 
risk.
So I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  on this basis. I think  they bought PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it.
Ref: DRN76351202BoS gave a personal recommendation to Mr K about the PPI, so it had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was right for him. Looking  at Mr Ks circumstances at the time it seems 
that it was right for him. I say this because:
Mr K was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr K was only entitled to statutory  sick pay, which wouldve  been a lot less than his 
usual pay. If hed been off work  ill then hed have struggled to meet  his mortgage 
repayments and other  essential expenses without  the PPI. 
Mr K was entitled to statutory redundancy pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and for up to 12 months  at a time. So Mr K couldve used  any 
redundancy pay to cover other  uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. It was flexible because it could be amended or cancelled  at any time 
without a financial penalty. And I havent  seen anything to suggest that it wasnt 
affordable for Mr and Mrs K.
BoS also had to make sure Mr and Mrs K had all the information  they needed about the 
policy to make their decision. Mr and Mrs K say they werent given enough information about 
the cost. But I can see this was set out very clearly in the welcome letter.  So even if they 
werent told at the point  of application,  they couldve decided  to cancel when they received  
the welcome letter. Its possible they didnt  get all the information  they needed, but as the 
policy was suitable  for Mr Ks circumstances as Ive already described, I dont think more  or 
better information wouldve made a difference to their decision to buy the PPI.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs K lost out as a result of anything BoS mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept  or reject my decision before 4 October 
2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7635120