K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  hasnt offered a fair valuation 
for his car following  a total loss.
background
Mr Q insured his car with Advantage  in September 2018, having just bought the car. Mr Qs 
car was involved in a total loss accident  on 1 November  2018. Advantaged offered £5,425 
as the market value of the car, which took into account its low mileage. Mr Q didnt  accept 
that offer as he had paid more for the car just two months previous and so he complained.
Advantage considered the complaint and stood  by its settlement offer.  Not happy  with that 
Mr Q asked us to look into his complaint. Our investigator concluded the offer made by 
Advantage was fair and so he didnt  ask it to do anymore. 
Mr Q asked for the matter  to be reviewed. He doesnt consider the settlement offer fair as it 
doesnt take into account higher values in his part of the country. He also believes insurers 
should tell policyholders  the true value of their cars when they insure them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that Advantage has 
already made a fair settlement for Mr Qs claim.
The starting point  is the contract between Mr Q and Advantage  the policy  of insurance.  
Under How your claims  are settled the policy  explains  that:
For loss of or damage to your car your insurer  will either:
pay for any necessary  repairs;
replace your car, or
pay the market  value of your car immediately  before the loss (this is not 
necessarily the value you declared when the insurance was taken out).
Market value is defined  as:
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of a similar  make, model, age and condition. Publications may be 
used which  refer to vehicle values such as Glasss  Guide to assess the market 
value, with an allowance made for the mileage, condition and circumstances of 
purchase by you. 
Advantage referred to vehicle valuation guides  to obtain a market value for the car. These 
guides are based  on nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.  They  use 
advertised prices and auction  prices to work out likely selling prices.  I can see from the 
information provided that the lower mileage  of Mr Qs car was factored into the valuations. 
And that Advantage has offered the highest valuation given. We use a similar approach and 
the same  vehicle valuation guides  to help decide if an offer is fair. Checking an additional 
guide available to us, the amount  offered  by Advantage is still the highest  market value 
given. Overall I dont find Advantage has acted unfairly in offering the value it has. 
Ref: DRN74170782Mr Q has argued  that he paid much more  for the car just two months prior to the accident. 
And he believes insurers should tell policyholders the true value of a car when its insured. 
But its not an insurers responsibility to value the car when its insured. And although I 
accept Mr Q may have paid more for his car, selling prices and market values are rarely one 
and the same, particularly as selling prices  can often be inflated and negotiated down.
I also accept there  may be regional variations on price. But the guide  values given are based 
on national averages. Im not persuaded it was unfair for Advantage to rely on the values 
given, particularly where Mr Q hasnt provided persuasive evidence  the market values given 
were wrong. As its the market value  payable under the terms of the policy, Im satisfied 
Advantage has already made  a fair offer to settle  the claim and so I wont  be asking it to do 
anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company  
Limited has already  made a fair settlement of Mr Qs claim. I require it make that settlement 
payment to Mr Q if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7417078