K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited,  as their 
broker, handled the cancellation of their home insurance. Theyre also unhappy with the 
compensation it has offered them for its poor service.
background
In my provisional decision of 11 February 2020  (a copy of which Ive attached to this final 
decision), I explained why I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  accepted my decision. Hastings has come  back  with some comments. 
So Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, and considered  Hastings most 
recent comments, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided  to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I think Hastings  should pay Mr and Mrs B another £75 (in 
addition to the £75 it has already paid them) for the distress  and inconvenience  it has 
caused them.
In its response to my provisional decision,  Hastings  says it agrees to the additional 
compensation of £75 I said I intended  to award,  but only if Mr and Mrs B confirm  their 
premiums were increased due to the policy cancellation. My award wasnt  and isnt linked  to 
any premium increase Mr and Mrs B may have had. I think Hastings handled  the 
cancellation of their home insurance  policy very poorly and so caused Mr and Mrs B greater 
distress and inconvenience than was reflected in the compensation of £75 that its paid them  
so far.
Hastings also says it doesnt agree to being liable  for any increased  premium Mr and Mrs B 
have paid as a result of declaring the policy cancellation  to their new insurer.  It says it told 
Mr and Mrs B they didnt need to declare the cancellation. And it says the new insurer 
shouldnt charge an additional premium  when it has confirmation it was cancelled  in error.
Mr and Mrs B havent given us any recent indication that theyve been charged  a higher 
premium because of declaring  the policy cancellation. And I agree that, if that has happened,  
the new insurer shouldnt  charge an additional  premium once it knows  the cancellation was 
an error. But, for the reasons  I gave in my provisional decision, I dont think Hastings made it 
as clear as it shouldve  from the outset  that this wasnt a cancellation Mr and Mrs B 
needed to declare going forward. And so, in these rather unusual circumstances, I think if  
Mr and Mrs B have  paid an increased premium  (which  they can show with written evidence) 
and their insurer has refused to refund  it, Hastings should cover this loss.
Ref: DRN75771212my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision of 11 February 2020, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and direct  Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay them £75 in 
compensation (in addition to the £75 they have  already been  paid).  
Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  should pay this compensation within  28 days  of the 
date we tell it Mr and Mrs B have accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, it should  also pay 
them 8% simple interest on the compensation from the date of this final decision to the date 
of payment.
If Mr and Mrs B have  paid a higher premium on their new insurance because  they declared 
the cancellation and their new insurer has refused to refund it, Hastings Insurance  Services  
Limited should pay them the difference  on receipt  of written evidence  from the insurer  of the 
amount of the increased premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75771213COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 11 FEBRUARY 2020
complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited,  as their 
broker, handled the cancellation of their home insurance. Theyre also unhappy with the 
compensation it has offered them for its poor service.
background 
Mr and Mrs B got their home insurance  through Hastings from October  2016  until November 
2018. In August 2017, they were burgled and made  a claim on their policy, which  was settled 
by their insurer. They renewed their policy through Hastings in October  2017  and in October  
2018. 
On 24 October 2018, however, Hastings wrote  to Mr and Mrs B saying their policy was being 
cancelled on 7 November  2018. The letter said Hastings had identified an error that meant  
their insurer  wasnt able to provide them  with cover. Hastings wrote to Mr and Mrs B again 
on 31 October to remind them their cover was being  cancelled.
Mr and Mrs B complained saying:
Hastings letter of 24 October 2018  stated  it had been trying  to contact them  when it 
hadnt.
They experienced long call queues when attempting to call Hastings to discuss  what  
was happening.
Hastings was unable  to explain why their insurance was being  cancelled.
When Mr and Mrs B renewed their policy in October 2018, there was no mention of 
the insurer not offering the cover.
The notice period they were  given to find insurance elsewhere was inadequate.
They now needed to declare theyd  had a policy declined/cancelled.
Hastings hadnt  refunded them the premium theyd paid for the renewal.
The documents Hastings sent them made  no reference to it being able to cancel  the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs B also complained to Hastings  that its information about their no claims discount 
was confusing. I understand Hastings and Mr and Mrs B have now settled this separate  
complaint point and so it isnt covered in my decision here.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, Hastings accepted its letter  of 24 October was 
poor. And it accepted its call volumes were  high when Mrs B tried to get through a couple of 
days after it was sent out, meaning she couldnt speak to anyone. It also agreed  it was 
unable to explain to Mr and Mrs B why the insurer couldnt offer the cover and why it had 
therefore been renewed in error.
But Hastings said it had given notice of the cancellation  in line with the Mr and Mrs Bs policy  
terms, which were  set out in their policy document. And it said it had refunded  their full 
premium on 8 November  2018. It apologised for its mistakes and paid Mr and Mrs B £75 for 
the distress and inconvenience  it had caused  them.
Unhappy with the level of compensation Hastings offered,  Mr and Mrs B complained  to us. 
The investigator who looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold  it. He thought 
Ref: DRN75771214Hastings had made errors and given poor service, but he was satisfied it had acted fairly in 
its compensation on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
So Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has come to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B had placed and then renewed  their home insurance with the same insurer 
through Hastings  on three occasions (and the renewals had seemingly been accepted 
despite them  a making a claim (that was settled) in their first year of cover). But within  a few 
weeks of their second renewal, Mr and Mrs B got a letter from Hastings  telling them, 
incorrectly, it had been trying to get in touch with them. The letter  also said that, due to an 
error, the insurer could  no longer cover Mr and Mrs Bs home.
I can see that on the day Mrs B says she got this letter from Hastings, she emailed it about 
what was happening (the issues  concerning her then were broadly  the same  as those she 
has made to us). She says in the email shed  tried to call Hastings to discuss the reasons for 
the cancellation but got an automated message saying waiting times were  over an hour long, 
so she wasnt able to speak to anyone. 
I think it must have been very confusing and upsetting for Mr and Mrs B to be told out of the 
blue by Hastings  that their home  insurance was being cancelled for a reason that was far 
from clear to them. I say this especially bearing in mind theyd seemingly successfully 
renewed their insurance for the second time with the same  insurer through  Hastings  just a 
couple of weeks  earlier.
I think it wouldve been frustrating for Mrs B to phone Hastings about  its letter  and find she 
might have to wait more  than an hour to speak  to someone.  And I think it wouldve been 
even more upsetting for Mrs B, after then emailing  Hastings about her concerns to get no 
written acknowledgement  or response to those concerns  apart from an automated 
message  even  up to the day before the cancellation date of the insurance policy.
From Hastings internal  notes, it seems Mr and Mrs B did speak to Hastings on the phone  on 
2 November 2018. The call handlers  notes, among other things, describe them as being 
very upset  because they didnt feel theyd been treated fairly. And the notes say they were  
distressed at having to declare on comparison sites that theyd had insurance cancelled 
(although the call handler had assured them they wouldnt need to).
I can see this was a very confusing and upsetting time for Mr and Mrs B. And I think it 
couldve been avoided  if Hastings initial cancellation letter of 24 October 2018 had 
explained to them much more clearly than it did why the policy was being cancelled  and that 
this wasnt because Mr and Mrs B had done anything wrong. And I think  it wouldve been 
helpful to explain  what the cancellation  meant  for Mr and Mrs B, in particular that they 
wouldnt need to declare  it when  getting quotes for home insurance in the future. 
I should also say Hastings subsequently told Mr and Mrs B the policy  was cancelled 
because the insurer  could no longer offer cover.  But when our investigator asked the insurer 
Ref: DRN75771215about this, it said its investigation showed a change in the software Hastings used to 
administer policies meant it was unable to administer  a policy  renewal for Mr and Mrs B. So 
it says Hastings used  its new software  but this meant treating Mr and Mrs Bs request for 
cover as new business rather than a renewal.  And the insurer says its underwriting criteria 
for new business  as opposed to renewals   meant  it declined cover  for Mr and Mrs B as 
new business because  of the theft claim. Weve asked Hastings about  this. Its confirmed 
that even if the insurer  wanted to continue the policy with Hastings  old system, this wasnt in 
use and therefore  Hastings wouldnt have been able to administer it. So it seems  that, if 
Hastings hadnt  changed its software,  the insurer would still have been able to offer             
Mr and Mrs B cover. This is something  Hastings  didnt explain to Mr and Mrs B. 
I think Hastings has handled  the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance policy  very 
poorly. And for the distress and inconvenience it has caused  them  its my current view it 
should pay them an additional £75 in compensation on top of the £75 I understand it has 
already paid.
In his view on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint,  our investigator said Mr and Mrs B could speak to 
their new insurer and ask it to remove any cancellation details from their policy.  He said the 
insurer should offer a refund and reduce  Mr and Mrs Bs premium if this has happened. And 
he said if Mr and Mrs B didnt want  to do this they should get confirmation in writing  from the 
insurer because Hastings  had agreed to refund the difference.
If Mr and Mrs B have  incurred any additional  costs by declaring the cancellation on their new 
insurance, I think its fair and reasonable Hastings  should reimburse them  for these costs.
For the avoidance of doubt, like our investigator, I think  the notice period Hastings gave      
Mr and Mrs B of the cancellation was fair and reasonable,  in line with their policy terms and 
set out in the policy document theyd have been sent. And from what Hastings says they 
were refunded their full premium.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and direct Hastings Insurance Services Limited  
to pay them  £75 in compensation  (in addition to the £75 they have already been paid). 
If Mr and Mrs B have  paid a higher premium on their new insurance because  they declared 
the cancellation and their new insurer hasnt  refunded it, Hastings Insurance Services  
Limited should pay them the difference  on receipt  of written evidence  from the insurer  of the 
amount of the increased premium.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7577121