K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms and Mr N hold with Ulster Bank Ltd. Theyre  unhappy 
with how Ulster handled  a request  for a payment holiday. Our dealings  have largely  been  
with Ms N, but Mr N has joined her in bringing the complaint.
background 
At the beginning  of 2019, Ms and Mr N asked  Ulster  for a six-month payment holiday. 
Initially, Ulster told them they werent eligible,  then it told them  they were eligible on one of 
the mortgage sub-accounts but not the other. Eventually, it was established that they were 
eligible on both sub-accounts, and the payment holiday was set up to run from February  to 
July 2019 inclusive.
Ulster apologised for the confusion and offered £200.compensation. Around the same time, 
Ms N sent in a copy of her marriage certificate in order that her name could  be changed on 
the mortgage account. A problem arose because Ulster hadnt told her it needed to be a 
certified copy. The business  agreed  to waive the rule and effect the change without troubling 
Ms N to get a certified copy and send it in.
Our investigator thought Ulsters response to the complaint  was reasonable and didnt 
recommend it do anything further.  Ms and Mr N have asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
Whilst the case has been awaiting review, a new problem has arisen  with the resumption of 
payments following the end of the payment holiday. But thats  not part of the complaint Im 
reviewing. I have no remit to consider a complaint before the business has been given the 
opportunity to do so first; our rules dont  allow that. Our investigator has explained to 
Ms and Mr N that we can facilitate the setting up of a new complaint if they wish to pursue 
that.
my findings
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This isnt a complaint where I have  to 
decide if a mistake has happened; thats  not been  in dispute since Ulster first responded to 
the complaint.  All I have to decide  is how Ms and Mr N should  fairly be compensated. 
I can see how frustrated Ms N in particular is about the number of issues  shes  had when 
dealing with Ulster. But I can only consider the issue before me and assess the extent to 
which it impacted adversely on Ms and Mr N. 
Theres no suggestion theyve lost out financially, but clearly they were put to some 
inconvenience. We do award compensation for distress and inconvenience caused, and for 
the time and trouble people are put to in bringing  a complaint. Here, Ulster assessed  fair 
Ref: DRN70530622compensation at £200; in all the circumstances, I agree. If no offer had been made, I 
wouldnt award more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Ulster  Bank Limited to pay Ms and Mr N £200 compensation. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7053062