K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank plc recorded a CIFAS marker against his name.  
CIFAS is the UKs  fraud alert service. 
background
Mr G has had accounts with HSBC for a number of years.  In May 2018 he received a 
payment of £2,000 into his current account  from a Halifax account. Halifax  contacted HSBC 
to say that the payment  had been  identified as fraudulent  and specifically, the payer  had 
been blackmailed into making  it. HSBC asked Mr G about the payment, but wasnt  satisfied 
with his explanation and so closed the account (and another account he held with HSBC) 
and placed a CIFAS  marker against his name. 
Mr G explained that the payment had been money he was owed by his then girlfriend and 
which hed asked her to repay so he could help his brother to buy a car. HSBC however  
noted that he was unable  to provide anything to evidence that arrangement,  and noted too 
that the payment had come from an account  belonging to a male.  It wasnt prepared to 
remove the marker and so Mr G referred his complaint  to this service.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Gs complaint but didnt think HSBC should  remove  
the fraud marker. His reasons were broadly the same as the banks. Mr G didnt accept what  
the investigator said and asked  that the case be reviewed  by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
I accept that the funds  that were paid into Mr Gs account came originally from a victim of 
blackmail. The investigations carried out by the victims bank and Halifax indicate that to be 
the case, and Ive no reason to doubt their findings.  That doesnt necessarily mean however 
that Mr G was involved. 
However, Mr Gs explanation of how the money came to be paid into his account is, in my 
view, not very convincing.  He says that his then girlfriend was repaying money hed lent to 
her. He was however unable to provide  any evidence that hed lent her money.  And the bank 
was unable to trace any payments to the account  which he says was hers, or to any other 
Halifax account. 
Mr G says that one reason he couldnt  provide evidence of the arrangements for the 
payments was that messages about  the payment  were on an old phone. Im not persuaded 
first of all that Mr Gs messages  would have been removed with his old phone. But I note in 
any event that HSBC contacted Mr G within  a few days, so I think he might have realised 
that such evidence  might be important and taken  steps to preserve it, perhaps by contacting  
his then girlfriend  or the messaging  service  theyd used.    
Mr G gave his then girlfriends name by initial and surname. That was the name referenced  
on the payment  he received and which appeared on his bank statement. The Halifax 
account was however  held by a male.  It wasnt his girlfriends account. It may be that he 
wasnt fully aware of the story behind the payment, but I believe Mr G must  have known  that 
what he told HSBC about the payment wasnt true. 
Ref: DRN76492062Before placing the CIFAS  marker against  Mr Gs name, HSBC needed to have a reasonable 
belief that criminal charges could be brought  as a result of the activity on the account. A 
suspicion or concern  isnt enough. In my view, however, this case  does meet  that test. Thats 
not to say of course that charges would  have been  brought or that a conviction would have 
resulted  thats not for me to decide. But I do think HSBC had sufficient grounds to do what  
it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, therefore,  my final decision is that I dont require HSBC  to do 
anything more to resolve  Mr Gs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7649206