K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc pre-approved him for a credit card. He then 
applied for it only to be later told that he hadnt  been  approved  and that they wouldnt give 
him the credit card. 
background
In 2018, Mr C got notice  that hed been pre-approved for a Capital One credit card. He 
decided to apply  for this card. Mr C says he was sent confirmation  that his application had 
been accepted. 
By 7 September 2018, Mr C still hadnt received his card. So, he called Capital One. Capital 
One explained that his application had been  cancelled after completing their standard  
application checks due to their internal lending policy. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this so he raised a complaint with Capital  One. 
On 18 September  2018, Capital One wrote to Mr C saying that they wouldnt uphold his 
complaint. They understood  that Mr C was unhappy because  he had been pre-approved but 
they pointed out that, at the time of pre-approval,  they explained  that he would be subject to 
further checks. They said that Mr C hadnt met their lending criteria so they had cancelled  his 
application. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this decision so he came to us. He thought  that he had been  singled 
out because of previous complaints made  to Capital One. 
Our investigator found that she couldnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr C didnt agree with this decision so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr C wont be happy with my decision. I dont think  that Capital One has done 
anything wrong. I will explain why. 
I have looked  at what is given to applicants  when they are pre-approved for a credit  card.  
The quick  response  pre-approval states:  
If you apply,  there is a small chance that we may be unable to open  your  account if 
we identify certain information on fraud prevention databases or if we are unable to 
verify your  identity.
So, I think that Mr C was given reasonable notice of this. It isnt Capital Ones fault if he 
didnt see it. If Mr C applied for the card through another  agency, which  mightve been the 
case, then I cant hold Capital One responsible  for not making Mr C aware  that this was their 
process. 
Ref: DRN76221442The next step then, is to consider whether Mr C shouldve been  turned down. From what  I 
have seen, I dont  think that Capital One were singling Mr C out because  of his previous  
complaints to them. It appears to me that they acted fairly and reasonably in properly 
applying their internal  lending  policy. 
With regards to Mr Cs credit  score being affected, I cant  see how it has been. Capital One 
have removed any adverse information  from Mr Cs credit file. I think  that this was fair and 
reasonable considering that they hadnt  approved him for the credit card. 
Mr C has asked for me to call him before the decision is made. I have looked through all the 
paperwork in this case. I cant see what Mr C could add to what he has already told our 
investigator. So, I dont  think  that a call is necessary. I have taken  into account all that Mr C 
has raised. To summarise,  Mr C doesnt  think that he shouldve  been turned down in the 
final stages of applying  for a card.  In particular, he feels that he has been  singled out 
because of previous  complaints that he has made.  I have taken this fully into account  when 
making my decision. 
I understand that this decision will be a disappointment to Mr C. But I cant  see that Capital 
One has done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I wont be asking Capital One (Europe)  plc to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7622144