K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that TSB Bank  plc wrongly  processed a loan application in her name, 
although it was her husband  who applied  for the loan. 
background
In October  2017 TSB received an online application for a loan of just under £20,000. It says 
the loan was made using Mrs Ss online banking details and that it was approved  and put in 
her name. The loan funds  were  used in part to repay an existing loan in Mrs Ss name, and 
the balance was paid into the joint account  which Mrs S and her husband hold with TSB. 
Loan payments  were  made from that account.  
Mrs S has explained that she didnt find out until early in 2019  when she checked her 
credit file  that the loan was in her name. She believes it should have been in her 
husbands name and is concerned about the possible effect on any future  applications she 
might make of having a loan incorrectly registered  against her name. 
TSB looked into Mrs Ss concerns but said that the loan application had been made using 
her online banking details.  If Mr Ss husband  had made the application,  he must have done 
so because he had access  to her details. There was only an electronic signature, and there  
had been no face-to-face contact. The bank  noted  too that Mrs S appeared to have 
benefited from the loan, since it had been used in part to repay an existing loan and in part 
to fund the joint account. 
Mrs S said that her husband had experienced some difficulty when applying for the loan and 
had contacted the bank  to discuss it. So it ought to have identified that it wasnt her making 
the application, even if the online information  suggested it was. 
Mrs S thought TSB should place the loan in her husbands name and remove  any reference 
to it from her credit files. It didnt  agree  to do that, and Mrs S referred  the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it. He concluded however that Mrs S 
must have  agreed  to the loan, either because she made it or because she let her husband 
use her online banking  details. He noted too that shed benefited from the loan. Mrs S asked 
that an ombudsman  review the case.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says that she couldnt  have applied for the loan, since she didnt have online access.  
TSB says however  that this was set up in 2006,  while her husband didnt set up online 
banking until some time after the loan was taken out. I accept  that TSBs records are correct  
and that the loan application was made using Mrs Ss details. 
Mrs S knew  that her husband was making  a loan application. Shes also explained  that she 
hasnt suffered financially as a result.  Repayments  were made from the joint account she 
holds with her husband,  which is in turn funded from his salary. This is not, therefore, a case 
where a loan has been taken out dishonestly without  Mrs Ss knowledge; rather, she says 
that TSB wrongly put it in her name  instead of her husbands.
Ref: DRN70422152I accept Mrs Ss evidence that her husband was responsible for making the loan application 
 in the sense that he keyed in the information to do so. She says that he used his salary, 
not hers, in applying for the loan and that he used the loan to buy a car which she doesnt 
use. TSB says that part of the loan that was paid into the joint account  was then used to 
repay credit card debt,  but thats  not necessarily inconsistent with what  Mrs S has said about  
it. I must therefore consider whether TSB made  an error in putting the loan in her name. 
TSB changed its IT systems in 2018.  Because of that, it says, its no longer able to provide 
full details of what happened when the loan application was made. And it has no record  of 
any telephone  contact Mrs Ss husband might have had at the time.  Im satisfied however 
that the application can only have  been  made using Mrs Ss online details, since only she 
was registered  for online  banking.  As I have explained, I dont believe there was any 
dishonesty here, and Mrs S hasnt  suggested  there was any. I think  its likely that Mr S 
believed hed made the application in his own name. 
It may be of course that Mrs S and her husband  didnt realise that, because her online 
details were being used, the application would automatically be completed in her name. Its 
possible too that he didnt notice that had happened; given the use to which the loan was put 
and how it was to be repaid,  it may not have seemed significant at the time. I believe 
however that he would have had the opportunity  to check the details before finalising the 
application.
TSB suggested that Mr S could apply for a loan and, assuming that application is successful, 
use the proceeds to repay the loan in Mrs Ss name. Mrs S believes however that the bank 
made the initial error and that it shouldnt  be for her and her husband to sort out the problem. 
I dont believe however that it would be reasonable to require TSB to set up a new loan in Mr 
Ss name without an application from him. And I note too that he did apply successfully for a 
loan in 2019. 
  
In conclusion, I believe this complaint  has arisen  to a large extent because Mrs S allowed 
her husband  to use her online details and in part because he didnt realise he was making 
an application in her name. In the circumstances,  I dont  believe it would be fair to require  
the bank to transfer the loan  although  it may be possible through a further application to 
achieve a similar result.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank plc to take 
any further steps to resolve Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Mike Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7042215