K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank  UK Plc hasnt been supportive  since  their 
interest only mortgage expired.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out an interest only mortgage  in 2004. Barclays has since taken over the 
mortgage. The mortgage term expired in 2016 with an unpaid balance  of about £72,000. 
Since then,  Mr and Mrs G made  additional payments to reduce the balance.  
Mr Gs mother,  who is elderly and registered as disabled,  lives in the property. Mr G says the 
property was valued in 2016 at more than £100,000. Mr G says hes made a number  of 
repayment proposals with a combination  of lump sum and monthly  payments that would 
repay the mortgage by 2021.  He says Barclays declined his suggestions and didnt offer an 
acceptable alternative. Instead, it started possession proceedings.
Barclays says the income and expenditure information it has suggests these payments 
arent affordable for Mr and Mrs G. It says it needs evidence  of where the payments will 
come from.  Mr and Mrs G told Barclays that the extra  payments  would  be funded by family 
members, so completing another income and expenditure form wouldnt add anything. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She said taking 
possession should  be a last resort, especially given the likely effect on Mr Gs mother. 
Mr and Mrs G had made payments to reduce the outstanding balance  and put forward 
payment proposals  which would repay  the mortgage  by the end of 2021. The investigator 
said shed expect Barclays to agree  to this once it received information from Mr G. 
Barclays said it couldnt agree with the investigators  recommendations before reviewing 
information from Mr and Mrs G. It provided  a list of the information needed, which the 
investigator forwarded to Mr and Mrs G. Barclays said until Mr and Mrs G provide this it cant 
assess affordability or decide if the proposed arrangement is acceptable. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt provide the information. Mr G said he wouldnt respond if Barclays didnt  
write to him directly. He said Barclays had a record  of ignoring his requests for information.  
As the parties hadnt  agreed a way forward, the complaint was passed to me. I sent a 
provisional decision to the parties to set out what I thought should happen. In summary, I 
said Mr and Mrs G need to engage meaningfully with Barclays if they want to agree a 
repayment arrangement  and avoid  legal proceedings. This would include responding to its 
reasonable requests for information. 
Mr G said Barclays  agreed to his repayment proposal when it accepted a lump sum payment 
in November 2018. Mr G declined to provide updated income and expenditure information  or 
information about the contributions made by Mrs Gs father.  He said Mrs Gs father had died 
last July and as executor he would follow the same  pattern of making  lump  sum payments to 
family members in November each  year.  
Barclays said if Mr and Mrs G werent prepared to complete an income and expenditure form 
it couldnt be expected to delay litigation. Barclays said if Mrs G is a beneficiary of her 
fathers estate and there are funds available it expects payment immediately, not in annual 
instalments.
Ref: DRN73307252my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The term of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  expired in 2016 with an unpaid balance.  They  
borrowed the money from Barclays and do have to pay it back. Fairness requires, as a 
starting point, that they did so when it was due at the end of the mortgage term. However, 
Mr and Mrs G couldnt  repay the capital  owed at that time. And while  theyve repaid some 
capital since then, there remains an unpaid balance. 
Mr G has in the past written to Barclays making proposals and asking what  repayment  
arrangements would be acceptable to it. I should  make it clear that I dont think its 
reasonable to require  Barclays to set out all possible options  which  might  be available. 
Whether these are appropriate  will depend  on Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances. Id expect 
Barclays to consider fairly any credible repayment proposals Mr and Mrs G put forward.  But I 
should also make  it clear that I consider  it reasonable for Barclays  to ask for information from 
Mr and Mrs G so it can assess whether the arrangement is affordable. Barclays has a duty 
under mortgage regulation to act as a responsible lender. Part of this, is to ensure that any 
payment arrangement entered into is affordable for its customer. 
I think there are two possible outcomes here: the property is sold to pay the debt or a 
repayment arrangement  is agreed.
Mr and Mrs G dont want to sell the property  at the moment.  Mr Gs mother  lives at the 
property and would like to stay there  for as long as shes able to do so. But I dont think  
Mr Gs proposal  that Barclays waits for repayment until his mother  leaves the property is 
reasonable. 
In my provisional decision,  I also said it wasnt reasonable to require  Barclays to wait until 
Mr and Mrs G inherit money from Mrs Gs father, as theyd said they expected  to do. In 
response to my provisional  decision Mr G said Mrs Gs father had died in July 2019. 
However, Mr and Mrs G arent proposing to repay the mortgage immediately from the estate. 
Barclays started legal  proceedings in late 2018: its notes say this was because  of the lack of 
engagement and contact by Mr and Mrs G. Possession proceedings are likely to be 
distressing for the family and would incur legal  costs.  The parties should engage 
meaningfully to find a way to avoid this, if possible. 
Barclays says it will look into setting up an arrangement in line with Mr and Mrs Gs 
proposals if they provide information.  Ive seen the list of the information  Barclays  says it 
needs from Mr and Mrs G. In summary, Barclays says it needs Mr and Mrs G to provide 
income and expenditure and evidence of how monthly  and lump  sum repayments will be 
funded. I think  the information requested is reasonable to enable Barclays  to assess  whether 
repayment of the outstanding mortgage balance  will be affordable.
Mr and Mrs G didnt provide any of this information  to Barclays or to us. If Mr and Mrs G had 
a credible reason  for not providing some of this information, Id have asked Barclays  whether  
Ref: DRN73307253it was able to be flexible. But I dont think its reasonable to require Barclays  to waive its 
request for information entirely. 
Mr G said the repayments  were funded by family and Barclays  didnt have the right to ask for 
this information.  Since  my provisional  decision,  Mr G has said that the family member 
(Mrs Gs father)  died in July 2019. Mr G says hes the executor of his estate. Id expect him 
to be able to provide information to Barclays about  the estate and the amount he and/or  
Mrs G is likely to receive  and when. Mr G says he was given instructions about  payments to 
beneficiaries so providing a copy of this to Barclays would  be a good  starting  point. 
Barclays has to assess whether the arrangement  is affordable. Information provided by 
Mr and Mrs G previously suggests it isnt, so I can understand  why Barclays wants  more 
information about their current  circumstances and the funding of the repayments.  I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask for this.
When asked whether hed sent the information Barclays asked for, Mr G said hed written to 
Barclays asking for information and it didnt respond. Barclays said it didnt receive his letter. 
Its not reasonable to say Barclays is at fault for not responding to a letter  it didnt receive. 
Mr Gs letter  asked Barclays about the information it required. But I think  this was clear 
enough from the list forwarded by our investigator.
I expect Barclays to treat Mr and Mrs G fairly. And to bear in mind the impact on Mr Gs 
mother, who lives in the property. But the mortgage term expired over three years ago. While 
Mr and Mrs G have made efforts to repay  the mortgage, the unpaid balance  is about 
£39,000. The payments theyve made shows theyre willing to try to repay the mortgage, but 
Barclays doesnt have  evidence that they can afford  to do so. 
If Mr and Mrs G want Barclays to agree a repayment arrangement and avoid further  legal 
proceedings they need to engage meaningfully  with Barclays.  This includes responding to its 
reasonable requests for information. As far as Im aware this still hasnt happened, and so I 
dont think its reasonable to require Barclays to offer an arrangement  to Mr and Mrs G. 
Barclays put recovery action on hold while we looked into Mr and Mrs G complaint. Its likely 
this will re-start once  our process  ends.  Given the time passed since  the mortgage term 
expired, and that there isnt an arrangement for the debt to be repaid, I dont think I can 
reasonably require Barclays to hold recovery action.  But if Mr and Mrs G are now willing to 
provide the information it has asked for, it will in fairness need to consider whether the 
proposed arrangement is sustainable and should do so before taking any further  action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7330725