K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with his claim under  his home  emergency  policy. He wants  compensation.
background
Mr S had a home emergency policy with British Gas covering his central heating.  He said 
that it left him with one of his radiators  not working  after visiting  his property, and he had to 
pay an independent plumber £60 to fix it.
Mr S complained to British Gas. It said that it wouldnt reimburse  him as a power flush had 
been required. Mr S said this was incorrect; the independent plumber  said a power flush 
wasnt required to repair the radiator. The plumber confirmed that all that was necessary  was 
to increase the pressure to the one radiator (to clear an airlock or dirt).
Mr S complained to us, and said he wanted  any reference to a power flush  removed from 
British Gas records as he believed that it would  mean it would not carry out future repairs. 
British Gas told this service that since 2009  its records showed there were warning signs  of 
sludge in Mr S central heating system, and sludge was removed in 2014. It said that there 
was a further blockage in 2016 and British Gas believed  sludge had accumulated  in the 
system, causing poor circulation.  It viewed the engineers  advice that a power flush  was 
required as fair and reasonable as it was an efficient way to clean the system. British  Gas 
also pointed out that the plumber apparently hadnt carried out a water test (its engineer had 
done so) so couldnt dismiss sludge  as an issue. It also said that it had offered to inspect the 
system to confirm the existence of sludge  (and if no sludge was found,  it would refund the 
£60), but Mr S had refused.
The investigators view was that British Gas offer to carry out a second water test was 
reasonable in the light of the conflicting evidence and the observation by the plumber that 
there could  be dirt in the system. Mr S told the investigator that it was likely that sludge 
would be found  in the system, but disagreed  with the investigators  view. He said all systems 
over five years old would have sludge  within them and British Gas wouldnt try any other  
solution other than a power flush.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, I think British  Gas offer is fair and 
reasonable. Its engineer carried out a water test and found sludge, theres a history  of 
sludge within the central hearing system and even Mr S accepts that its likely that a second 
water test would find sludge.  The plumber didnt  carry  out a water test but commented  that 
there might be dirt in the system which caused the blockage. While I note Mr S point about 
older systems,  his system has a history  of problems requiring the removal  of sludge and 
blockages. I havent  seen any evidence, other than what  Mr S says,  to confirm that all older 
systems have sludge.
And while the plumber managed to fix Mr S radiator,  I think  British Gas point that the repair 
is likely  to be temporary is a fair one. Mr S plumber cant say what  caused  the blockage,  
though he thinks  the cause was either  air or dirt. I think its more  likely than not that the 
Ref: DRN73566722blockage was caused by sludge,  and I cant say British Gas is unreasonable  in believing the 
same. If theres a considerable amount of sludge  in the system,  another blockage is likely  to 
arise. The terms and conditions of the policy make  it clear that it isnt there  to repeatedly  fix 
issues which could be resolved with a power flush.  That said,  problems not likely  to be 
caused by sludge remain covered by the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
24 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7356672