K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank Plc have closed her account  and registered  her name 
with CIFAS.  
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS)  is the UKs fraud prevention service.
Miss D has been helped with her complaint  by a representative. But for ease of reading,  Ill 
only refer to Miss D herself.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. Miss D had a Under 19s Account with a debit card. In November 2018 
two payments were  made to the account totalling around £1,000. Within minutes of each 
payment, cash point (ATM) withdrawals  totalling  similar amounts  were made using 
Miss Ds card and PIN.
The payments to the account were later found to have been fraudulent. When  they 
discovered this Lloyds closed Miss Ds account  and registered her name with CIFAS. 
Miss D says she knew nothing about the payments to her account  and that she wasnt 
responsible for the withdrawals. She says she lost her card around the time of the first 
payment and had written  down her PIN, which was attached to the card. 
Lloyds say they acted fairly in closing the account  and taking the further action  they did.
Miss D referred the matter to our service.  She wants Lloyds to remove  the CIFAS  marker. 
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He concluded Lloyds 
had acted fairly in the circumstances and didnt recommend that they needed to do more. 
Miss D doesnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for essentially the same  reasons. Let me explain why. 
Im satisfied the transfers into Miss Ds account were fraudulent and werent  authorised by 
the respective  account holders. Their own banks will have investigated  those payments 
before reaching  that conclusion. Miss D may not have been directly  involved in that, but she 
says she knew nothing  about the withdrawals  either.  I think that is unlikely and Ill explain 
why. 
The second  fraudulent payment arrived in Miss Ds account two days after the first. Lloyds 
have shown that in that time period Miss D logged on to her online banking  within  the app on 
her phone over 30 times. The evidence  shows that shed logged on using her fingerprint, so 
Im satisfied it was Miss D that was logging on and viewing that information.  
Both the incoming payments and the withdrawals from the account would have been visible  
and I think its more  likely than not that Miss D saw these during her numerous checks  of her 
online banking. But Miss D didnt  contact Lloyds to report  this  she only contacted Lloyds 
Ref: DRN73749482three days after the second payment and this was to report that her debit card was lost or 
stolen. Based on this I think  she had at least some awareness of what  was going  on. 
I think most  people would immediately report transactions they didnt recognise  or werent 
expecting as soon  as they became aware  of them. I also think  that when seeing these 
transactions Miss D would have checked  if she still had her debit card and would have 
reported its loss immediately, rather than waiting a few extra  days  before doing so. 
Im not persuaded that Miss D has told Lloyds all she knows about the events surrounding 
these transactions.  In the circumstances, I think there would have been  good grounds for 
Lloyds to report matters  to the police to investigate, and that they were  therefore justified in 
placing a CIFAS marker against Miss Ds name. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ds account  also allow  Lloyds to take a decision to end 
their business relationship  with her. I can see that theyve complied with the relevant notice 
period when doing so. And in the circumstances, I dont think  theyve treated Miss D unfairly. 
Ive also considered Miss Ds account  that she didnt  make or authorise the cash  withdrawals 
and two further transactions made at a petrol filling station. Im satisfied by the technical 
evidence from Lloyds  that all these transactions were made using  Miss Ds genuine card and 
PIN. In itself that isnt, on its own, enough to conclude  that she authorised  the transactions.  
But taking all the circumstances of this complaint into consideration, I think  its more likely  
than not that Miss D either made or otherwise authorised  these transactions.  
Miss D has provided us with an account which would  explain how her PIN number  was 
compromised. But I dont find Miss Ds testimony  to be reliable evidence.  The speed  of the 
withdrawals after the payments  were made  (within  minutes), coupled  with the online banking 
activity and the delay in reporting the loss of her card to Lloyds all lead me to conclude that 
Miss D made or otherwise  authorised the cash withdrawals  and purchases. And as such, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to hold her liable for them.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  require Lloyds Bank Plc to do 
anything further  to resolve Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7374948