K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC should  have prevented  him from falling victim to a 
scam.
background
Mr P says he made a successful application  to be a mystery shopper by filling in an online 
form. He subsequently received a cheque for £1400 which he was asked to pay into his own 
account  and was then told to buy gift cards from two separate  retailers.
He did this and then sent a photograph of the cards, along with the relevant activation codes, 
to an email address  provided to him by the person  who he had been in contact with. In total, 
he had spent £1049.28.
Unfortunately, this person was a fraudster   and the cheque which Mr P had paid into his 
account, and spent against,  was returned as unpaid.  This left Mr Ps account overdrawn.
Mr P complained to Barclays.  He said he couldnt be expected to know that he was dealing 
with fraudsters  and that Barclays should not have  allowed his account to go overdrawn in 
this way.
Barclays did not uphold  his complaint so Mr P came  to this service.
Our investigator explained to Mr P that she couldnt see that Barclays  had done anything 
wrong.  She  also explained  the system around the paying in of cheques  that is when the 
funds will show  on the account  as available and what that actually means.
She sympathised with the position  which Mr P had found himself in  but couldnt see that 
this was due to error on Barclays part.
Mr P didnt agree. He holds Barclays responsible for what has happened  to him and would 
like his money returned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I am afraid  I arrive  at 
the same  conclusion as the investigator.
I too sympathise  with Mr P  he has been  the victim  of a sophisticated scam.  But  my role is 
to decide whether Barclays has done anything wrong in how it dealt with his complaint  and 
I am afraid that it hasnt.
Barclays followed its correct process  in accepting this cheque into Mr Ps account. At the 
point when it started to pay interest on the funds,  they showed as available to withdraw.  
However, it does not mean at this stage  that the cheque  will not be returned  because  the 
bank has six working days to do this.
In Mr Ps case, this is what happened which left him with a negative balance.
Ref: DRN78747032I know Mr P says Barclays should  be aware  of these sorts of scams   but when he paid this 
cheque of £1400 into his account,  I think it is reasonable for the cashier  not to have  been  
alerted to anything  suspicious.  So, I cant agree with Mr P on this point either.
As I said,  Mr P is in an unfortunate  position   but I have  seen  nothing  here to suggest that 
Barclays has been unfair or unreasonable in rejecting his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7874703