K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the television  he bought  using his credit card with MBNA Limited 
(MBNA).
background
Mr S says the website  of the retailer he bought the TV from made specific  but misleading 
claims about its capability to have smart things technology, similar to a home  hub. He says 
the TV doesnt have this capability  and its therefore  clearly been misrepresented. And he 
says another retailers giving  full refunds on the same model of TV based  on the same issue.
So, Mr S says he wants MBNA to reimburse the price he paid for the TV.
MBNA says Mr S hasnt  supplied any evidence about the use of the relevant application or 
the anticipated timescales for the manufacturer introducing it. And it says it hasnt seen the 
advert Mr S saw before  he bought the TV. So, MBNA says it isnt able to uphold his 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said a page  on the retailers  website 
entitled tech talk counts as a source  of information about TV capabilities,  with a view to 
selling a range of TVs. He said the tech talk page  clearly states that the manufacturers 
SUHD TVs of that year will have the capability to be a smart home hub. And he said the 
advert for the TV he bought confirms it is a SUHD TV of that year.  So, he said for these 
reasons its evident  theres been  misrepresentation by the retailer.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
MBNA provided the finance Mr S used to buy his TV. So, this means Mr S has the right to 
claim against MBNA for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the retailer  that sold 
him the TV.
Mr S didnt give us the advert for the TV he saw on the retailers  website,  but our investigator 
located an advert from the relevant  time by the same retailer for the same  TV at the same 
price. And Mr S appears to acknowledge that this is the same  advert  he saw.
I see the advert doesnt include any reference to the TV being provided  with a smart things 
extend dongle,  nor does it mention any of the functionality Mr S says was misrepresented  to 
him.
I acknowledge Mr S says he relied  on the contents of the tech  talk information sheet on the 
retailers website in deciding to buy his TV. But this doesnt appear to have been on the 
Ref: DRN77820702same web page as the advert for the TV Mr S bought and neither does it make specific  
reference to the model of TV he bought.
I note Mr S says another retailers giving full refunds on the same model of TV based on the 
same issue  and hes also referred to a decision  by a dispute resolution service  that upheld a 
complaint about  the same  issue. But I see that complaint related to a TV bought  in store  
from a different retailer, so the circumstances were different  from this case.
In any event, this service considers each complaint on its individual merits and, taking 
everything Ive seen into account, I cant conclude the TV was misrepresented  to Mr S when 
he bought it. 
So, this means I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold  his complaint.     
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against  MBNA Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  3 May 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7782070