K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account,  removing and then delaying  
returning funds  from the account. He would like £50,000 compensation for losses incurred 
as he was unable  to make trades with the money on his account. And £10,000  for the upset 
and inconvenience.
background
Mr B says he opened an account with Barclays in October 2017. He says Barclays  decided 
to review the account in November 2017 then closed it in December 2017.   Mr B says he 
wasnt given any notice  his account  would be suspended. And no staff contacted  him during 
the investigation for further information  before  Barclays  closed the accounts.
Mr S said he used  his account  to process  transactions from cryptocurrency trading. But 
couldnt carry out trades for four months. He said Barclays  wanted proof of where just over 
£43,000 came from. He says he gave  this proof  on 8 December 2017 but Barclays  didnt 
release his money until 29 March 2018. 
Finally Mr B says he had to constantly  call Barclays to find out what  was happening. And he 
suffered a lot of stress  as a result.
Barclays said it decided to review  Mr Bs account. And so put a block on the account whilst  it 
was under review.   Following the review  it felt it was unable to offer Mr B banking facilities. It 
accepted the review  should have taken three not four months  to conclude. As a result of our 
intervention it offered  to pay Mr B interest of £228.88 as compensation for Mr B not having 
access to his funds  for one month. And £75 compensation for the inconvenience.   It also 
noted that Mr Bs account wasnt a business account and shouldnt  have been used for 
trading purposes
Our adjudicator found it was Barclays decision as to who it offered banking  facilities to. And 
that it seemed  to be accepted that the bank  had taken too long to conclude  its review. He 
didnt feel it was reasonable for Barclays to have  retained the money  for the period in 
question. He felt Barclays  should have been  able to complete its review within a month. He 
recommended that Barclays:-
-Paid Mr B interest on the amount taken from his account at the statutory rate of 8% 
simple interest from 9 January 2018 to 29 March 2019 when the funds were returned 
to Mr B. He estimated this to be £762.92.  And if considered applicable interest  at the 
basic rate should be deducted
-Pay £200 compensation for the upset and inconvenience.
Neither party accepted this view.
Barclays felt that it should  only pay two months compensatory interest in conjunction with the 
£75 it had previously  offered.  It didnt feel it should  pay three months  compensatory  interest  
as the information Mr B supplied was insufficient raising further concerns. It felt it was 
appropriate to hold the funds for more  than 30 days in case any claims  were  received.
Our adjudicator made Mr B aware of this offer but Mr B didnt accept this. He felt a total 
compensation figure of £5,000 was appropriate for loss and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN76899142As neither party agreed the complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Barclays put Mr Bs account on hold whilst it conducted 
a review. Or that it retained a significant sum of money for four months whilst it considered 
where this money  came from. And if it could  release  it or not .So during this time Mr B didnt 
have access to funds  in the account.
There is an issue as to whether the account  was used  for business purposes or not. Mr B 
says not but Barclays  doesnt agree. Looking at the account statements  it seems to me the 
vast majority of transactions  were  non domestic. So I think  Barclays  are right to say Mr B 
used a personal account as a business account which he shouldnt have done  so.
However I think the main  issue is that its the banks  decision as to who it offers banking 
facilities too. Thats a commercial decision for it to take and not one for me to interfere with. 
Ive looked at Barclays terms and conditions. These do allow it to close  account  without 
notice. So I dont think Barclays  did any ting wrong  in closing Mr Bs account.
In terms of retaining the funds in the account I accept that Barclays does have a right to 
restrict access to funds  if it has concerns  about  the funds.  Its unfortunate that Mr B didnt 
have access to his money  for trading purposes  during  that time. But I dont think  Barclays  
were wrong to retain  the funds as it had genuine concerns it needed to investigate
Looking at the time it took for Barclays to review Mr Bs account. Mr B told us he provided 
proof of where the funds came  from by email on 8 December 2017. I can see from the notes 
that Barclays has given  us that Mr B refers to this email during a phone  call on 15 December 
2017. I havent seen this email but I have  no reason  to think  Mr B didnt send it. After all in 
was in his interests  to do so.  It seems from the banks notes that it couldnt locate this email 
and asked Mr B to send  a copy on 3 January 2018. I can also see from these notes that Mr 
B made numerous  calls to the bank to see what was happening.
Barclays has told us the reason  that its review took so long was because   Mr B didnt give 
the information it needed when it first asked for it .And there were a large  volume of 
transactions on Mr Bs account for it to look at. Having looked  at Mr Bs account statements I 
agree there were a significant number  of transactions.
Mr B may not have given the right information initially  but as the customer notes show he 
was clearly in regular contact with Barclays  so I think  he was keen  to progress the matter.  I 
feel Barclays should certainly have been able to conduct and conclude its review within two 
months. On that basis I think Barclays suggestion to pay two months compensatory  interest 
is fair.
I dont feel I can agree to the level of compensation Mr B has requested. Barclays  did need 
some time to conduct  its review. And the level of trades  and profit Mr B assumes  he would 
have made  could never have been  guaranteed.  Also Mr B shouldnt have been using his 
account for business  purposes.
Ref: DRN76899143But I do accept that Mr B has been put to some  inconvenience as evidenced by the number 
of calls he made to Barclays .And I also accept  this would have caused him some  degree of 
stress. So I think some compensation for this is appropriate. And I think the £200 our 
adjudicator recommended  is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Barclays  Bank  PLC should pay Mr B:-
-Compensatory interest at the statutory rate of 8% for the period 29 January to 
29 March 2018. If appropriate basic rate tax should  be deducted.
-£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7689914