K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Haringey District Citizens Advice Bureaux  (Haringey  CAB) were  
wrong to tell her to include a debt on her Debt Relief Order  (DRO).
background
Miss A visited Haringey CAB in May 2016  for advice about managing her debts. They  
arranged a DRO for her and included a debt her daughter had with her University.  Miss A 
was told that the debt would be written off at the end of the DRO moratorium  period but 
shes upset that the University are still pursuing her daughter for payment.
Haringey CAB explained that theyd  understood Miss A may also be liable for the debt but 
subsequently realised she had only been assisting her daughter with payments. They said 
that whilst  the DRO would remove any liability from Miss A for the debt, it wouldnt remove 
Miss As daughters responsibility for it. And regardless, they explained that they were 
advising Miss A on her debts and not her daughter.  They said if there was any possibility 
Miss A would be liable  for the debt it was right to include it in the DRO. So they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong.
But Miss A disagreed  and she referred  her complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
considered all the information but didnt think Haringey CAB had been wrong to include the 
debt in the DRO. She noted that thered  been no formal arrangement for Miss A to take 
responsibility for the debt and it was still her daughters but she thought Haringey CAB had 
been right to include it in the DRO list as there appeared to be some doubt  as to whether the 
debt was Miss As responsibility. Their guidance  suggested debts should  be included  if there  
was any doubt.  So she didnt think Haringey CAB had done anything wrong.
But Miss A did and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.  She said it wasnt her 
idea to include the debt in the DRO, it was the businesses,  and that advice was wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss A but I dont  think Haringey CAB have made a mistake  here.  
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
A DRO  freezes an applicants debt repayments for 12 months  (the moratorium) and if the 
financial position doesnt change the debts attached to the DRO will usually be written off.
So when Haringey  CAB helped Miss A with her DRO application they wouldve wanted  to 
include all the debts  that Miss A had and, as she mentioned shed been helping her 
daughter with payments, I think its clear they may have considered  she was severely liable  
Ref: DRN78783732for the debt i.e. she was a guarantor and was jointly responsible. So they wouldve wanted to 
include it on any DRO to ensure that Miss As responsibility for it was cleared at the end of 
the moratorium. Their  guidance on the matter said 
As limitation and enforceability can be such  an uncertain  area the general rule should  be: if 
in doubt, list it
And thats what they did.
Miss As DRO cant change her daughters  responsibility for the debt and I dont think  it 
would be fair to expect  Haringey CAB to advise Miss A about  this. It was Miss A who was 
their client,  not her daughter. But if Miss A had been a guarantor on her daughters  loan then 
the DRO would have removed Miss As liability for the debt (not her daughters) and I think 
thats what Haringey CAB were rightly  seeking  to do in this instance.
So I dont  think Haringey  CAB need  to take any further action here as Im not persuaded 
theyve done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7878373