K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in telling him that his mortgage product was a five year product  when  it was 
due to last over six years. Mr B wants the extra early repayment  charge (ERC) that hed 
paid as a result refunded.
background
Mr B took out a mortgage product in July 2015 with NatWest. He said that it was meant  to 
give him a fixed interest rate for five years, which also meant that if he repaid the mortgage 
early, hed have to pay an ERC. But when Mr B repaid his mortgage  early, he said that he 
found that his product was due to last six years two months, and meant  that his ERC  was 
higher than he expected. He paid an ERC of 3%, rather  than 1%.
Mr B complained to NatWest. It said that the end date of 31 December 2020 was set out in 
the mortgage offer he accepted, as well as other  documents given to Mr B. The end date 
was five years and five months after the product started. NatWest  said that the phrase five 
years was used  throughout  the mortgage  industry  to allow  consumers to compare products, 
but the precise details of the product  were then set out in the mortgage documents. It also 
explained that it used standard end dates for its products, rather  than offer each consumer 
exactly five years on a particular product.
Mr B complained to us, saying that he believed  a five year product would only last exactly 
five years and NatWest shouldve made the position clearer to him when he took out his 
product. The adjudicators  view was that NatWest wasnt  at fault.  He said that the mortgage 
offer and suitability letter  given to Mr B made it clear when the product ended and Mr B 
accepted the offer.  The adjudicator said Mr B ought  to have been aware when the product  
ended and the ERC was clearly set out too within the documents.
Mr B disagreed. He accepted that he shouldve read the mortgage documents  which 
explained when  the product ended, but felt he shouldve been made aware that the product 
would last longer  than exactly five years. Mr B also said that he wasnt  an expert  in 
mortgages and thought  the term five years should  mean exactly  that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When marketing mortgage  products, lenders  must be accurate and not mislead consumers. 
But its standard industry practice to use terms such as five years,  but for lenders to 
actually offer slightly more  or less than the stated term. This is for practical  reasons   
lenders create tranches  of loans to offer to the public and the end date is set for the whole 
block, not from when  the loan is started  for each consumer. This is fair and reasonable, 
provided that the consumer is told in advance exactly  when the product ends.
In Mr Bs case, I can see from the evidence available that he was told on a number of 
occasions when  the product would end in 2020  (and it was only five years  five months after 
the start of the product, not over six years). I dont think NatWest couldve done  much more, 
particularly as Mr B accepts that he didnt read the documents closely.
Ref: DRN73606722The mortgage offer sets out the end date, and the details of the ERC. This is what  is 
required of lenders. And I note Mr B was told of the ERC if he did go ahead and repay the 
mortgage early, but chose  to continue. I cant say that NatWest has acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in telling Mr B the details of the product or claiming the ERC to which it was 
legally entitled.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
24 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7360672