K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a mortgage. 
Mr P says on behalf of himself and the late Mrs P, Nationwide Building Society mis-sold 
them the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71411632Extract from provisional decision
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in
May 1996. Mr P says Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold him and the late Mrs P, PPI. The policy  
covered Mr P only.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and the late Mrs Ps case.
I currently think this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.  I know this will come as a disappointment to
Mr P so Ill explain how Ive come to this decision. 
I think  Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose 
to take it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of their signed mortgage application  where the Yes 
box opting for the PPI has a printed tick in it. I think its likely this selection  came about as a result of a 
discussion between  Mr and Mrs P and Nationwide.  Mr and Mrs P have signed the form so I think its 
likely to reflect  what  they wanted. And I think they wouldve known that had they not wanted the PPI 
they couldve ticked the No box  which has been left blank.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs P got the information they needed  to decide if it was 
right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.
Although Mr P says he had a medical  condition  when  the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  
have provided cover  had he needed time off work  because of this condition, I dont  think  better  
information about this exclusion would have put him off agreeing to it. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has given me evidence that shows when Mr and Mrs P were  buying  another  financial 
product around  one month after the PPI was sold, that he was asked directly if he had such a 
condition. Mr P answered no to this.
Both Mr and Mrs P signed  the form saying  it was true to the best of their knowledge.  So I think its 
likely that at the time it was completed Mr and Mrs P believed the answer he gave to be accurate. 
Mr Ps representative has given reasons why he may have  given that answer - and Ive thought  about  
this. But I think that in not saying he had the condition, Mr Ps answer in that application  likely 
reflected that in 1996 he didnt consider his condition to be significant  enough  to be a relevant factor. 
With this in mind, even if Mr P had understood the condition wouldnt be covered  by the PPI, on 
balance I dont think it likely  that Mr P wouldve considered his condition significant  enough  at the time 
for this to have  made a difference to his decision to buy the PPI.
Mr P has kindly sent us documents  relating to his health  including a letter  written up by an NHS 
nurse from 2016 summarising his health history. This document indicates  hed suffered from this 
medical condition for over 20 years. Ive read these forms carefully but for the reasons Ive explained, 
I still think its likely he wouldve bought the PPI had he been given clearer information.
It doesnt  look like Mr P was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. I 
think the policy would have been useful for Mr and Mrs P if something went wrong.
Ref: DRN71411633Mr P says he wouldve  been  entitled to sick pay. However  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any 
employee benefits  he had and for up to 24 months if Mr P was unable  to work  because  of accident or 
sickness. So I think  they wouldve found the policy useful in the event Mr P lost his job. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover. It follows that I dont currently think Mr P and the late Mrs P have lost out as a 
result of anything Nationwide  have done wrong.
Ref: DRN7141163