K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L t/as U (Ive referred to the company as U throughout the decision for ease) 
have complained about Tradex  Insurance  Company  Limiteds decision not to provide them  
with indemnity for a third party claim against them, following damage caused by a van 
belonging to them, which  they hired out. Theyre also unhappy  that Tradex  have said they 
will pursue  them for what they felt they had to pay out for repairs  due their obligations under 
the Road Traffic Act.
Tradex used a claim handling agent, but Ive referred to Tradex  throughout this decision for
the sake of ease. 
background
U hired out a van to a company they dealt with regularly. The van was involved  in an
accident in which damage was caused to a third party vehicle. It looks  like the driver of the
van was at fault. U reported the accident, but Tradex closed the claim as theyd not heard
anything from the third party or their insurer. The third partys representative sent Tradex  
their bill for the repairs to the third party vehicle about ten months later. So Tradex  re-opened 
the claim and asked U for a copy of the hire agreement for the period covering when the van 
was in the accident. U eventually said they couldnt  provide this, as they only kept these
agreements for six months.  Tradex interviewed the owner  of the company who hired the van
and the driver at the time of the accident.  They then told U they wouldnt be providing them
with indemnity following their claim because  theyd not obtained a signed hire agreement
when they hired  out the van. And they asked them to sign a consent agreement form 
allowing them  to deal with the third party claim and reclaim anything they paid out from U. 
Its not clear from the information provided  by Tradex whether they have now paid the third 
party claim, although I can see they intended to do so.
U didnt sign the consent agreement form and instead complained to Tradex. Tradex 
rejected their complaint, as they were satisfied they didnt have to provide them  with 
indemnity and could reclaim anything they paid out from U.
U complained to us and one of our investigators considered their complaint. He explained
why he thought Tradex had acted appropriately  according to the policy  terms and that
because of this he didnt think Us complaint should  be upheld. U didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  Theyve pointed out that the reason they couldnt
provide a copy of the hire agreement to comply with the policy  terms was due to the fact that
Tradex didnt ask for this when they first reported the claim to them. And they dont think the
hire agreement would have shown the driver  wasnt eligible to drive  according to the policy
terms.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 October  2020  and said the following in the provisional 
findings section:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is to look at the relevant policy terms, which  are as follows:
The cover
Ref: DRN70277732We will extend cover  to insure you whilst a self-drive hire vehicle is being  driven  or used
during the period of hire by a driver in the United Kingdom...
provided that
a) the vehicle is being driven or used in accordance with the certificate of motor
insurance and the schedule
b) the driver complies  with the terms, conditions and exclusions of this policy and the
hire agreement insofar as they can apply
c) if you do not renew the policy, the period of hire is completed during the period of
insurance...
Conditions and clauses
1 Where your schedule shows that a hirer and/or  driver  is insured  on a standard basis, the
hirer and/or driver must...
vi) not have
a) had more than one accident in the last 5 years
b) been disqualified  from driving in the last 24 months
c) any convictions for or prosecutions pending  under any Road Traffic Act or similar
legislation in any country in which this policy is operative unless specifically declared
to us and shown in the schedule
d) been convicted of or has a prosecution pending  for any other criminal act other than
parking offences  or one speeding offence
e) had a motor  insurance proposal  declined,  a policy cancelled, renewal refused or
special terms, conditions,  exclusions  or an increased premium  imposed.
2 You must verify the identity date of birth and address of the hirer and/or driver
a) if an individual, by inspecting and copying
i) the original  driving licence
and, in addition
ii) at least one of the following,  a passport, cheque book, debit or credit card or original
utility bill
iii) if you do not take photographs of hirers and/or  drivers,  you must ensure that one of
the copied documents has a photograph  of the hirer and/or driver on it
b) if a representative of a business,  by
i) checking  the documents as in a) above
and, in addition
ii) checking  that the business is in existence
iii) establishing  that there is a the (sic) link between the representative and the business
iv) confirming the authenticity of the hire by telephone or email...
4 Before the period of hire begins, you must ensure  that
a) the hirer and where applicable the driver  has personally fully completed  and signed
the hire agreement and provided all the relevant information
b) you have checked  and verified all the required documents...
6 Copies of all hire agreements,  licences,  photographs and other related documentation
must be kept for at least 4 years  or, if there has been a claim, for any further period we
require. These must be available  for inspection by us on request.
I appreciate U have said they destroyed hire agreements after six months because  of GDPR
Ref: DRN70277733and that this wouldnt have been an issue if Tradex had asked for a copy  at the outset. But
the policy does  say they needed to keep these  for four years,  along  with copies of the
drivers licence and the other document used  to identify the driver. So while  Tradex  could
have asked for copies  at the outset, I think it was reasonable of them to wait until they knew
they had a third party  claim to deal with on the basis the policy required U to keep them  for
four years.
So to decide the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint I think I need  to consider two
things. Firstly, whether U did comply with the policy conditions and obtain  a signed hire
agreement and checked and verified all the required documents.  And because  copies of
these documents  arent available, I need  to consider whether it is more  likely than not that U
obtained a hire agreement and checked other  documents.
U have said that before they hired  out vehicles to customers they emailed their terms and
conditions and the customer had to email  them back signed. And that these covered checks
on their drivers. Theyve also said originally they would supply a copy  of the relevant
agreement to Tradex. And it was only later that they said they couldnt as it had been
destroyed.
When the owner of the business  which hired  the van was interviewed he said he couldnt
remember signing any paperwork and that he did not normally sign hire agreements. When
the driver  was interviewed he said he was given a hire van from U and that his employer  set
all this up and all he had to do was collect it.
While I appreciate what U have said, I think the comments of the business  owner  and the
driver show its more likely than not that neither of them signed a hire agreement.  I realise it
is possible one of them did and has forgotten,  but their comments make me think  they didnt.
I say this, as if it was something  they normally did I think the owner  would have said so and if
he didnt normally do so, but had done  so on this occasion, I think  hed have remembered.
The business owner also said he checked  the driving licence of drivers and hed provided a
copy of the licence of the driver  involved in the accident taken about a year before the
accident. But he hasnt  said anything about  checking whether the driver  had had more  than
one accident in the previous five years.  The example hire agreement  U has produced has a
question on it about accidents in the last three years, but U has said the conversation  at the
counter about  this was different, by which I think they mean they asked about accidents in
the previous five years. However, I think its unlikely that either  the business owner or U
checked how many accidents  the driver  had had in the previous five years.
So, for the reasons Ive explained  above, I think it is more likely than not that U failed to
comply with the policy conditions requiring them to obtain and retain  a signed hire
agreement and to check the drivers identity. And I dont  think  they checked accident history
either.
In view of this, I also need to consider whether it would have made any difference if U had
complied with the policy conditions. This is because I think  there is relevant legislation  (The
Insurance Act 2015)  that means that if it wouldnt have made  any difference to the risk of the
loss which  actually occurred in the circumstances  in which it occurred,  Tradex  wouldnt be
entitled to refuse U indemnity because they didnt comply with the relevant policy conditions.
But this legislation  puts the onus  on U to show this is the case.
When he was interviewed the driver said hed been banned from driving in the past and the
Ref: DRN70277734business owner later clarified that this was due to a totting up process  and happened in
2008. I have no reason  to doubt  this and this conviction would have been spent by 2017
when he drove the hire van and not something  he needed to declare. He also said he still
held a full licence and didnt think he had any points  on it. But he did not say he knew this for
sure and also, U havent provided a copy of the licence or anything  else to show  the driver
didnt have any convictions under the Road Traffic Act when he hired the van. The driver
also said hed been involved  in one previous non-fault accident, which does imply this is all
hed ever been involved in and it is difficult to see what else U could produce to prove  this
now.
If the driver or business owner had signed the hire agreement and carried out the relevant
checks they would then have known that the driver didnt have any convictions and previous
accident. But - as Ive said - I dont think they did. And - while  I think  the driver probably
met the eligibility criteria  so far as accidents were concerned, I dont think theres enough
evidence to show hed have met the criteria so far as convictions are concerned.  I say this
because when questioned he seems to have been unsure about points and convictions on
his licence, which seems  strange  to me, bearing in mind hed been banned previously  and
more recently been banned for another offence. I think if he didnt have any other
convictions/points on his licence when he was interviewed hed have been more definite
about this.
This means  I dont  think theres enough evidence  to show that Us failure to comply with the
relevant policy  conditions wouldnt have made any difference to the risk of the loss that
actually occurred. I think it could  well have  done,  as if the driver had previous convictions he
wouldnt have been eligible under the policy and U wouldnt have  hired him the van. This
means Tradex would never  have  had the risk of covering him and would not have had to pay
the third partys claim,  ie the loss.
In view of what Ive said, I think  it was fair and reasonable for Tradex  to rely on Us failure to
comply with the policy conditions requiring them to obtain a signed hire agreement and carry
out relevant checks  on the driver to refuse  them indemnity.  And therefore it would not be
appropriate for me to interfere if they do decide to pursue  recovery  of what  they paid out on
the third partys claim.
I  provisionally decided  not to uphold Us complaint.  
I gave both parties until 22 November to make  further comments and/or provide further 
evidence. Tradex replied  on 29 October  to say they had nothing further to add. U have 
asked for several  extensions due to not being  able to access  documents as a result  of 
restrictions due to the current pandemic. And the last extension I allowed ended  on 5 
January. U has asked for a further extension  in view of the new lockdown recently imposed 
in England. But I have to be reasonable  to both parties and I dont think it is appropriate for 
me to grant a further extension, as I think U have  had plenty of time to access  any 
documents and provide further comments and evidence, even allowing for the restrictions  
that have been in place.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70277735As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence,  I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  So it follows that I still I think  it was fair and reasonable for 
Tradex to rely on Us failure  to comply with the policy conditions requiring them to obtain a 
signed hire agreement and carry out relevant checks on the driver  to refuse them  indemnity 
for the claim against  them.  And therefore  it would not be appropriate for me to interfere with 
Tradex decision to pursue recovery of what they pay or have paid out on the third partys 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr 
and Mrs L t/as Us complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L t/as 
U to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
Robert Short
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7027773