K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains that TSB Bank plc gave her the wrong information when she was selling 
her house  and moving to a new one. Mrs D would like TSB to acknowledge  its mistake  and 
pay compensation.
background 
Mrs D was moving house in November 2018  for health reasons. Mrs D had a mortgage on 
her existing house with TSB. Mrs D says she went to two separate TSB branches  and told 
them that she was moving and asked  what steps she needed to take.  Mrs D says that she 
was told on three occasions  that she just needed to come in and change her details over. 
Mrs D didnt realise that she had to pay off her existing mortgage and apply for another one 
until her solicitor told her that she had to pay her mortgage off. 
Mrs D then borrowed money  from her son to pay off the existing mortgage. On 8 November, 
Mrs D went to a TSB branch to get a redemption figure. The branch transferred the 
redemption money  by Chaps transfer but didnt quote the mortgage account as a reference. 
This meant that the mortgage department didnt recognise the payment and it went  to a 
suspense account  and then on 9 November  it was returned to Mrs Ds account. Mrs D called 
on 12 November expecting the payment to have been made  but was told that the money had 
been returned to her account. On the same day the TSB branch rang to clarify  where  to 
send the payment. £9,987.06 was credited  to the mortgage and on 13 November  TSB sent 
Mrs D a letter telling her she had redeemed the mortgage.
TSB also told Mrs D that the mortgage  was overpaid by £241.09.  TSB says that this was 
because for a short period the account  showed in credit  but then an Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) which applied to the account was added. So Mrs D didnt receive the 
overpayment. TSB says that because of the mix-up between the branch and the mortgage  
department over sending the money to close the account it paid Mrs D £50 and £11 
expenses.  
Our adjudicator felt that there wasnt evidence to uphold the complaint that TSB advised Mrs 
D that she simply need to update her address and the mortgage  would be transferred. But 
he felt that TSB had made  errors processing the redemption money and further  
compensation of £150 should be paid together  with interest of £4.24. Mrs D disagreed and 
asked for a review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D had some trouble when she went to move house. I understand that this would have 
been an anxious time for her. Mrs D had a mortgage with TSB on her property. The 
mortgage Mrs D had with TSB had a mortgage product at a fixed rate of interest. If Mrs D 
wanted a mortgage on the new property she could transfer and keep  the mortgage product  
with the fixed  rate of interest  this is known as porting  but she would have to apply for a 
new mortgage on the new property. That is how this works. Mrs D appears to have 
Ref: DRN73140692understood that she could port or transfer  the mortgage but not that she would have to make  
the application for a new mortgage. Mrs D says that she went  to the branch three  times  and 
was told that she just needed  to come in and change  her details over.  
Unfortunately there is no recording of the conversations and I cant be sure what was said. 
Im unclear,  if Mrs D was told that she just needed to come in and change her details, why 
would she return and ask the question another twice. Given that Mrs D was in the branch  
three times I believe that she may have  asked a whole series  of questions but there is no 
record of the three conversations. Im inclined  to believe that Mrs D misunderstood  what she 
was being told and it may be that the advisers she spoke to misunderstood  what they were 
being asked. Fundamental to buying  a new house  and getting a mortgage  is that the 
customer will have  to apply for a mortgage.  I dont consider it likely that of the three advisers 
Mrs D spoke to that none of them  would  have known this and told Mrs D if asked. So, I cant 
fairly uphold  that part of the complaint.
I have noted that Mrs D was put to an amount of unnecessary trouble  when  she went to pay 
off the mortgage.  I agree  with our adjudicator that the amount originally offered by TSB was 
too low. But TSB has now agreed to increase the offer to £215.24 and I believe that is fair 
compensation for the issues which caused trouble  and upset to Mrs D when she tried to 
process the repayment of the mortgage. I understand £61 of this has been paid so I will 
make an order  for the balance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I approve the suggested  settlement  by TSB Bank plc to Mrs D of 
£154.24.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7314069