K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr U says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Us case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr U didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. Halifax has given me 
a copy of the credit card application  form. Mr Us personal details have been pre-
populated on the application and the PPI has been selected while other  equally  
prominent products  have not. I think its likely there would  have been a conversation  with 
the advisor about PPI prior to the details  being  entered on the application and Mr U has 
signed the application so I think this reflected what he wanted.
Mr U has said he was not aware PPI had been  added to the account but PPI would have 
appeared on his monthly credit cards  statements  as a separate  entry  so if Mr U hadnt  
agreed to the PPI I would  have expected him to questions this sooner than he did.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr U so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr U about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr U.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr U because:
When the policy was sold,  Halifax expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr U about that. 
Because Halifax didnt tell Mr U, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr U has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN75896742what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr U any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr U any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr U the difference between  
what Mr U owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr U 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr U can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr U.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr U any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7589674