K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) failed to 
support a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). Shes  also unhappy that they didnt explain  the options she had. She says this 
delayed matters.
background
Mrs P booked a luxury holiday on behalf  of her and her friends  in November 2017. She paid 
using a credit card provided by AESEL. 
But Mrs P was disappointed with the holiday for the following reasons:
they were given the same breakfast items  each  day with no vegetarian  options;
there was no fresh  fruit; 
there were no pancakes, waffles or special items;
there was no flexibility  on breakfast timings;
they werent asked  if they wanted  more  drinks;
they didnt  receive  the five or six courses  they were promised;
dietary requirements werent  met;
they werent asked  how they wanted their steaks;
Christmas  lunch was disappointing.  There  was no atmosphere  and no gravy for 
vegetarians;
there were no tea time treats as promised;
brownies had nuts in them despite  explaining a guest was allergic;
requests for different  food and drink were ignored;
the alternative dining provided when a chef was absent wasnt of a suitable standard;
they had to wait to be collected from the restaurant and werent reimbursed for costs;
a chef was boisterous and intrusive;
a hostess was inattentive  and the drinks  service was poor;
the chalet  wasnt  vacuumed at times;
towels and bed linen werent changed  frequently;
there was a lack of hot water;
there was an awful smell from some rooms;
the safe didnt work;
the pick up was often late;
the private transfer back  to the airport wasnt private.
She complained to the holiday company but wasnt able to resolve the problem. So she 
contacted the credit  card company AESEL. They initially attempted to raise a chargeback  
but that was opposed  by the holiday  company so AESEL considered a claim under section 
75. But they rejected that claim as they explained  to Mrs P that they didnt have sufficient 
evidence of a breach  of contract. Mrs P was disappointed with their response. She referred 
her complaint to this service and she added that she thought  AESEL should have advised 
her about  the ways  in which she could have pursued her claim.  She thought their failure to 
do so had delayed  things and she was confused at the credits and debits being made from 
her account.  
Our investigator didnt  support Mrs Ps claim.  She didnt think there was sufficient  evidence  
of the things Mrs P was complaining about. She noted that the holiday  company  had 
Ref: DRN71811132disputed most of her complaint points and she also noted that they had changed the chef, 
which she thought  was reasonable in the circumstances. She understood that the company 
had apologised  for picking up extra passengers on the private transfer  but she said this 
service had been supplied free of charge and she therefore didnt  think  it would be fair to 
suggest Mrs P needed to be recompensed.
She went on to consider  whether AESEL had delayed matters.  She explained that a 
chargeback request was time limited and she understood that AESEL would  want to pursue 
this process before pursuing a claim under  section  75 as this wasnt  time limited. So she 
didnt think theyd made a mistake when following the process they had and she understood 
that, as the process required them to gather evidence from the parties,  the timing was not 
entirely theirs to control.  
So the investigator didnt think AESEL needed  to take any further action. But Mrs P 
disagreed. She didnt  think  the investigators  that had been  involved in her case had been 
impartial or thoroughly  reviewed the correspondence shed had with the holiday company. 
She therefore asked  for an ombudsman to do so and to provide  a final decision on her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will come as a disappointment to Mrs P and I 
can see she has put a lot of effort into making  this claim so please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim or a chargeback  request.  Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in 
certain circumstances,  the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider  as against the supplier if there's either a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Ref: DRN71811133breach of contract
Ive reviewed the correspondence  between  Mrs P and the holiday company but I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence that what she was promised wasnt  provided and that she should 
therefore receive a refund.
The holiday  company dispute most of the issues in equal measure and theres a lack of 
material evidence. In the absence of more  concrete  evidence  I am not persuaded that it 
would be fair to ask AESEL to take any further  action.
There are areas where the holiday company have accepted some responsibility. For 
instance; I can see that its not disputed that nuts were served and that there was a smell, at 
least initially, from the drains. The holiday provider has apologised for providing food with 
nuts in it. I dont have  evidence  that any nuts were eaten and whilst I understand that this 
may have  been  concerning for Mrs Ps party I dont think that suggests the contract  has 
been breached.  The holiday provider has also apologised  for a smell from the drains.  Its 
disputed whether they provided the temporary fix they say they did but in the absence  of 
further evidence  of subsequent complaints  about the matter it would, in my opinion,  be 
unreasonable to suggest  action hadnt  been  taken. 
There are other areas were it would appear  that the holiday company have made significant 
efforts to accommodate  the wishes of Mrs Ps party.  For instance;  they agreed to pay for 
dinner at a restaurant when a chef was unavailable; they dismissed a chef and replaced the 
chef with one with significant  experience  and they say, although I can see its disputed, that 
they provided champagne on Boxing Day.
I think, on balance,  that theres not enough  evidence to suggest  the holiday that Mrs P paid 
for was of unsatisfactory  quality  or that the contract  has been breached. 
AESELs process
I dont think AESEL delayed matters here. It is usual for credit card companies  to initially  
raise a chargeback  request. This is done to the chargeback scheme  provider and there are 
time limits in which these  requests must be made.  If the chargeback is unopposed by the 
merchant then the transaction will usually be refunded. 
But here the merchant disputed  the chargeback and in those circumstances AESEL were 
right to then raise a claim on Mrs Ps behalf through section 75: which  has no time limits.  
The process requires  them  to obtain  evidence from both sides  and can therefore be lengthy  
but Ive looked at how quickly AESEL  acted when they received information  from Mrs P and 
from the merchant. I dont think it would be reasonable  to suggest any delays  were  
excessive. 
AESEL explained  that the delay on their part was due to them checking some technical 
detail about whether the holiday company could be considered to be the supplier of the 
holiday or simply a booking agent. This may have impacted on whether theyd be able to 
consider the claim  at all as the law doesnt allow them to consider claims were  there  isnt a 
direct relationship between the supplier of the holiday and the consumer. 
I can see this process  took a number of weeks but I dont  think  the delay could be 
considered excessive.
Ref: DRN71811134Ive also considered whether AESEL should  have told Mrs P about the chargeback and 
section 75 options  but I dont think this mattered. They appear to have processed the claim 
correctly and if Mrs P knew all the detail Im not persuaded she would have chosen a 
different option.  AESEL  were correct to process a chargeback in the first instance and 
subsequently check whether a section 75 claim could be raised before doing so.
So overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support Mrs Ps claim for breach 
of contract  and I dont  think  AESEL  handled her claim incorrectly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7181113