K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  they were mis-sold  a reviewable whole of life policy  by Lloyds  Bank 
PLC.  
They say they werent advised about the reviewable nature of the policy.  
background
In 1992, Mr and Mrs E were advised  to take out a joint life, second death unit linked 
reviewable whole of life policy.  
Their objective  was to help pay towards  any Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability that might  arise on 
their death.  
The policy was administered by a third party insurer and Mr and Mrs E paid into the policy 
for around  26/27  years. 
In 2018, the insurer wrote to Mr and Mrs E to say that it had made a mistake  in the 
administration of the policy. As a result of which Mr and Mrs E complained about the mis-
sale of the policy.  
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint. In short it said the recommendation was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs E and that it made clear reviewable  nature and operation  of the policy.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Lloyds made reasonably clear that the policy was subject to reviews,  and that they 
were necessary to make sure that the premiums  paid by Mr and Mrs E were 
sufficient to support  the benefits.  
In the event that the premiums were  insufficient  to maintain the cover,  the 
documentation made clear that the premiums  would have to be increased by the 
amount notified  or thered be a reduction  in the level of cover by the amount thats 
necessary to maintain the premium.  
Despite what Mr and Mrs E say about  this not being explained to them  at the time, he 
is unable to say that they werent  made aware.  
Whilst the policy summary made no mention  of reviews taking place it did say This 
summary does not constitute part of the policy schedule  or rules, but is issued for 
information only.
Lloyds didnt offer non-reviewable  policies  at the time so wouldnt have been in a 
position to offer those. However Mr and Mrs E should be aware that if it did, the 
premiums would  be much higher. 
It was quite normal for the premiums to increase as the policy  holders got older and 
the cost of life cover  increased.    
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the investigators  view.  In short, Mr E made the following 
points:
They were told this policy was an investment  they wanted to invest  money for growth. 
It was either going to pay out a tax free lump sum amount  (£100,000) or even higher 
based on the projections, in the event  of their untimely death to help pay any taxes.
Ref: DRN72730932They were shown  a very healthy  yearly projection for the fund of around  10.5%, all 
for a fixed monthly premium and for the next 26/27 years thats what theyve done.
Lloyds is referring to the incorrect brochure.  They were only given the May 1992 
Black Horse Life  Lifetime  Security  Plan Brochure.  And it made no reference  to the 
insurer. 
Under the heading reviewing your plan it said:
oYour  Plan is also reviewed at periodic  intervals  to ensure the Company can 
continue to guarantee the level of cover  for the contribution being paid. A 
review will take place  after the first five years and normally  every five years 
thereafter.
He feels level of cover is misleading  and could  refer to anything. 
Its news to them  that this policy is a unit-linked  policy. Theyre understanding  
supported by 26/27 years of paying the same  premium   is that its a fixed premium 
policy
So where has this sprung  up from? Theyve received data that the policy didnt rise 
until 2006 and then the premiums have risen exponentially.   
Based  on the annual  growth figures they were  shown in 1992  he feels  he should  
have a fund worth  around £28,000.       
Based  on all the difficulties surrounding the administration he cant  understand why 
the investigator still thinks the sale by Lloyds was suitable in 1992. 
He feels like Lloyds select the paperwork it wants to rely on and the investigator  has 
reviewed only these  and decided the case in its favour. 
Despite saying theres limited paperwork the investigators not interested in reading  
their papers consisting of top quality  originals. 
The odds  are against members of the public. If the business doesnt  keep or destroys  
documents, they can never be called to account.  
The public demands on the ombudsman to ensure fairness  and equality  between the 
bank and an individual. He would like to ask the ombudsman again to consider which  
party is believable   the bank who is at a loss to provide  any documentation on how it 
has managed the fund for 26/27 years, or them  members of the public who have 
paid the premiums until theyve doubled.
Any reasonable person will think of the demand for double  the premiums as highway 
robbery, particularly without any supporting  evidence. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs E have said Im not 
satisfied that the reviewable whole-of-life policy was mis-sold. But before I explain further 
why this is the case, I think  its important for me to note I very much  recognise Mr and Mrs 
Es strength of feeling  about this matter. 
Ref: DRN72730933They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs E and Lloyds, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its still important to reiterate that the type of policy Mr and Mrs E are complaining  about  is 
known as a reviewable whole-of-life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, but is 
instead designed to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs. 
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
I appreciate that plan illustrations or projections  can only give an indication of what the cost 
of premiums are likely to be, they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of or increased cost 
of the premiums. 
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. The cost of the cover 
is not fixed and actually increases with age. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased ages. In this case  the 
hope is that the investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall  when the policy 
reaches the point that the cost of cover  becomes  greater than the premium being paid. 
Whilst projections can be made, there are no guarantees,  and may explain the sharp rise 
after the 2006 review. 
Thats why at the point of sale Mr and Mrs E wouldve been given the yearly growth fund 
figures which determined  whether  or not the premiums they paid could maintain the level of 
cover or whether theyd need to increase it to pay for the increased cost of life cover.  
Thats why policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the 
original assumptions.  This is why Mr and Mrs E will have been told about the five year 
reviews. But at each  review, the insurer also needs  to make new assumptions about the cost 
of cover and investment performance in the future. Thats  why its not always possible to 
predict future premium  increases with any degree of accuracy. But not being  able to predict 
future premiums doesnt mean the policy  was mis-sold. So whilst  the cost of premiums might  
not have increased  until 2006,  there  was no guarantee that they wouldnt hugely increase 
thereafter. 
Im mindful of the points Mr E makes  about the growth projections  they were  likely to have 
been shown in 1992. But I dont  agree  that he should be entitled  to around £27,000. The 
projection Mr and Mrs E were likely to have been  shown, were  just that  projections  
based on a number of assumptions  that may or may not come to fruition. Based on what Ive 
Ref: DRN72730934seen I think they were unlikely to have been given any guarantees about  the investment 
value of the policy. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed   usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs E said they were (and werent)  told about the 
policy when it was arranged. But having considered everything they and Lloyds have said, 
I dont think their comments alone  are enough  for me to say the policy was mis-sold. I must  
take into account the explanatory literature  that Lloyds says they were  given when the policy 
started. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Es concerns about the policy summary and it not making clear that 
the policy was reviewable on the document. I note it only gave the very basic information  
including names  of the lives assured, the level of cover, and the premium  at the time. Im 
conscious that it was a summary only but I note that it also made clear  at the bottom  of the 
document in capital letters  the summary  wasnt a part of the policy schedule or the rules. 
So I think it was clear  that they would have to look at the policy schedule and rules to find 
out what the policy was really  about.  Im unable  to say that key details  were  deliberately  
withheld from them. 
I note that Mr E accepts  that they were given the 1992 policy brochure.   Even  if it wasnt  the 
one referred to by Lloyds  in its correspondence with Mr E and didnt contain a section 
referring to the insurer, I note it did have a section titled reviewing your plan which said:
Your Plan is also reviewed at periodic  intervals  to ensure the Company can 
continue to guarantee the level of cover  for the contribution being paid. A 
review will take place  after the first five years and normally every five years 
thereafter. 
  
In my opinion this made reasonably clear  that the policy was subject to reviews  and the level 
of cover wasnt guaranteed, but subject  to the outcome  of these reviews in line with how 
these policies generally operate. This was clearly contrary to any belief held Mr and Mrs E 
about a fixed rate premium. In other words this paragraph suggests the premiums were 
reviewable and were subject to increase.  
Any other documentation that Mr and Mrs E refer to or seek to rely upon in support of their 
complaint has to be looked at in this context  including the quotation that Mrs E refers  to:
First Premium due is on the Date of Commencement; second and subsequent premiums 
due monthly thereafter  from 27 April 1992 until death of the second Life Assured to die 
On balance, Im satisfied the policy allowed  Lloyds  to do what  it was doing  and that it didnt 
mislead Mr and Mrs E about  how it would  work.  In other words, on balance Im satisfied that 
they were made aware that the policy was reviewable and that the premiums  were likely to 
increase to maintain the level of cover they wanted.  
 
Ref: DRN72730935I appreciate Mr E says this was misleading given that level of cover  could refer to anything, 
but in this instance Im afraid  I disagree.  In the context of the review its likely to mean one 
thing. 
Based on what Mr and Mrs E say, it seems  the recommendation was made to help mitigate 
any IHT liability that might  arise after their death.  I note they had two sons and reference 
was made  to their nice house which was likely to have been their largest asset. 
In the circumstances Im unable to say that the recommendation  set up on a standard 
cover basis  with the aim of being sustainable  for whole of life  was unsuitable for this 
purpose. I also note Mr and Mrs E were recommended joint life cover so as to keep the 
costs down. In the circumstances Im unable to say the recommendation was wrong or 
unsuitable, just because the premiums  were likely to increase  in order  to maintain the sum 
assured. 
I note Mr E says they wouldnt have  taken a reviewable whole of life policy  if they were told.  
But I dont think that a non-reviewable policy was likely to be affordable.  I note Mr and Mrs E 
say that they took out several policies at the same time and so cost was on their mind.
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs E in light of the possible unaffordable premium  
increases. But that said, they still have the option  to reduce the sum assured and pay the 
same premium or increase the premium in order to maintain  the same sum assured.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs E will be unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what they want  to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr and 
Mrs E what  they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7273093