K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the life cover paid out on his four non-profit life policies  by The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society  Limited,  formerly  Royal Liver Assurance  (the business). 
Hes being represented  by his local Citizens Advice  Bureau (the CAB). 
 
background
The life cover policies  were taken out in Mr Ws wifes name in 1955, 1967, 1975  and 1980. 
Hes unhappy the values were higher in 2009  than on the actual claim value following his 
wifes death in 2018. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
These types of policies were non-profit  whole  of life policies which  meant no bonuses 
would be added, unlike with-profit policies which can have annual  bonuses applied.   
The terms of the policies made  clear  that only a guaranteed  benefit would be payable  
on claim. 
Although the business elected to offer bonuses  on the four policies, it maintained  the 
right to change its position,  and this is what happened when the business took over 
Royal Liver Assurance in 2011.  
It re-offered bonuses in 2013, but nowhere near the same  level as it had in the past.  
Its likely  that the business removed the bonuses on account  of a volatile stock  
market and volatile  growth. 
Taking all the points into account, the business  had acted reasonably. 
The CAB disagreed with the adjudicators  view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  It 
hasnt provided  any further submission. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the CAB says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has done anything wrong.  
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr Ws strength  of 
feeling about this matter  and Im very sorry for the loss of his wife.  
The CAB has provided submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mr W wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
Ref: DRN71973222The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the CAB and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business  wasnt  obliged  to 
apply a bonus to each  of the non-profit whole of life policies, although  it had discretion to do 
so. 
The documentation  made  clear that the customer was likely to get only the guaranteed 
benefit unless  the business felt the circumstances  were right to apply the bonus.  In other 
words, the customer wasnt automatically  entitled  to any profit the business made. 
This probably explains why the value of the policies in 2009 was higher   when the business 
decided it was going to provide a bonus  than when the policies paid out when  the business 
decided it wasnt. 
Also, when it decided  to apply the bonus in 2009 the markets  had done better prior to that 
point, and the business decided it wanted  to give its customers a share of its profits. This 
explains why, in 2009, the total death values  were £3,587.41 and in 2018,  when he claimed 
on the policies,  it was only £1,374.
I appreciate the CAB says the 2009 contractual agreement wasnt  honoured. But I dont think 
the business did anything it wasnt entitled  to do. The decision whether or not to apply the 
bonus is within the exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement of the business and Ive 
no power to tell the business this was wrong.  I dont think there was any contractual 
agreement or entitlement  by virtue  of the 2009  figures  as suggested by the business. 
I appreciate Mr W will be unhappy Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded the business  needs  to do anything more.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr W 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7197322