K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003 online. Mrs Y says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading  as Egg)  mis-sold her 
the PPI.
background
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ys case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Egg had to make Mrs Y aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding 
it to her card. Mrs Y applied for her PPI policy through  an online application at the same time 
as she applied for a credit  card. Egg hasnt been  able to show  us Mrs Ys completed online 
application, so Ive considered what we know more widely  about  how it sold PPI online 
around this time. 
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar  to what Mrs Y saw at the time of sale, and 
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So I think its likely Egg gave Mrs Y the 
option to either accept  or decline the cover before continuing with her credit card application. 
Egg has also given  us a copy of the data that was captured  from Mrs Ys application, I can 
see that the yes box has been selected  to confirm she wanted the PPI. 
So I think Egg made it clear that the PPI was optional and that Mrs Y chose to take the 
policy. Considering  how long ago the sale took place I think its understandable she cant  
remember doing so now. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs Y so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs Y got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs Y about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs Y has told us she was entitled  to good sick pay when she took the policy, had 
savings and could  have relied  on family to help make  her repayments. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ys sick pay and for longer than she would  have received full 
pay. The PPI would  also have allowed Mrs Y to keep her savings in place so they could be 
used towards other expenses. And while Mrs Ys family would have wanted to help,  their 
ability to would have  been dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which could have 
changed. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ys circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y. 
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y because:
Ref: DRN79975192Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs Y about that. Because  Egg didnt tell Mrs Y, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y. 
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs Y any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997519