K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that AmTrust Europe  Limited Is responsible for poor service  in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. In the case of a complaint  about a claim 
under an insurance  policy,  we deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company 
responsible for dealing  with the claim.
In our final decision we name the insurance  company  but we dont name other companies or 
individuals. 
Mr M had a policy branded with the name of an energy group company. The policy covered 
an annual boiler  service. That was to be provided by the energy group company.
The policy included cover for repairs. That was subject to a £50.00 excess  or fixed  fee. 
AmTrust was the insurance  company responsible for dealing  with claims for repairs.  Where I 
refer to AmTrust or the insurance company, I include other companies and individuals  
insofar as I hold AmTrust responsible for their actions.
Mr M had had a recent annual boiler  service.  But his boiler  broke down on about  17 January 
2019 during cold weather. He complained that the insurance company took until about 13 
February 2019 to fix it.
In a final response letter dated  4 March 2019,  the energy group company offered to refund 
the £50.00 excess and to pay a further £100.00  (a total of £150.00).
Our investigator dealt  with the complaint as against the energy group company.
She didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be upheld. She thought it unlikely the fault 
(in January 2019) had anything to do with the boiler  service. She thought that the amount  the 
company had already offered to resolve Mr Ms complaint was reasonable in the 
circumstances. She said that amount was £200.00 but she later corrected that to £150.00.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
The problems started after the last annual  service  on his boiler.
His experience during  the claim was stressful.
The insurer took 5 times the amount of time an independent engineer wouldve taken  
to repair  the boiler. 
He spent a lot of money and the £150.00  does not cover his expenses.
In about June 2019 the sensor that was apparently replaced earlier that year wasnt  
working again. He had to pay £50.00  as callout charges.
Ref: DRN79121032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms recollection is that the annual service was in December  2018 or January 2019. But 
he hasnt shown us any document  to confirm this. And the energy group company kept 
business records. So I find its dates  generally more reliable than Mr Ms.
From the records, I see the annual  service was booked for 15 November  2018  and an 
engineer attended that day. He couldnt  complete the service  without replacing the burner  
and burner gasket.  
He ordered these parts and fitted  them  on 21 November 2018. I think that mustve been a 
repair for which AmTrust was responsible. 
The engineer did the annual service  the same  day but I dont hold AmTrust responsible for 
the quality of the annual  service.
On 17 January 2019 Mr Ms boiler  stopped working  properly.  So he already had a problem 
when he contacted AmTrust. Thats why he contacted AmTrust. An engineer  came  the same  
day but he had to order parts and that was bound to take some time.
The policy provided  for a £50.00 excess. So I dont  find it unfair that Mr M had to pay that.
Mr M and his family were  without central heating  and hot water.  So he used three fan 
heaters. 
I have no reason to doubt his statement that the fans caused his circuit  breaker  to cut out  
so he had to pay an electrician £250.00 to resolve that problem.  But I cant say AmTrust was 
responsible for causing or resolving the electrical  problem.
I find it possible that the fan heaters  cost more in electricity than the boiler wouldve cost for 
gas. Mr M has suggested a figure of £120.00.  But I consider that he has fallen short  of 
showing evidence that the insurance company caused  or was responsible for such  a 
financial loss.
I accept Mr Ms statement  that he and his young son each suffered a cold and his wife 
suffered a migraine. But I consider that he has fallen short  of showing medical  evidence  that 
the insurance company caused  illness.
An engineer  visited  on 25 January 2019 but he couldnt complete the repair because he 
didnt have all the necessary parts. From  the records,  I find it possible that this was partly  
because the engineer had ordered the wrong  sensor harness. But I find that it was also 
partly because he found that the heat pads  also needed replacement. 
On 30 January 2019 AmTrust restored heating and hot water-  but there was further work to 
do. The repair was completed on 13 February 2019  with the replacement of the primary 
sensor.
I consider that the insurance company were  responsible for the lack of central heating  and 
hot water  for no longer  than the period 25 January to 30 January 2019. Even if it were 
Ref: DRN79121033responsible for the inconvenience and distress Mr M suffered  during that time,  Im satisfied 
that it did enough to put this right by paying  him £100.00 and refunding the £50.00  excess. 
So I dont  find it fair and responsible to direct AmTrust  to pay Mr M any more or to do 
anything further  in response to this complaint.
If he has a further complaint about  the durability of the repair to the sensor,  then he must 
raise such  a complaint  separately as it post-dates the final response of March  2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AmTrust Europe Limited  to do anything further  in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7912103