K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that she is expected to pay a fee of £495 for legal work carried  out by 
Just Retirement Money Limiteds  solicitors in relation  to a lease extension.
background
Ms M owns the leasehold  interest in a property upon  which Just Retirement has a lifetime 
mortgage. The freeholders agreed  to extend the lease from 80 to 999 years. As this was a 
change in the security, Just Retirements solicitors  had to approve the terms and the new 
lease and prepare a Deed  of Substituted Security. Just Retirement  explained to Ms M that 
shed have to pay its legal  costs for this, £495,  in addition  to her own legal cost.
Ms M complained. She said that when she took out the lifetime mortgage she wasnt  advised  
that shed have to pay Just Retirements legal fees if she extended the lease.
Just Retirement didnt  uphold the complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for the advice given 
to Ms M when shed  taken  out the mortgage   that was the job of her financial adviser. Just 
Retirement also said that it was entitled  to instruct its own solicitors to undertake legal work 
on its behalf in relation  to the mortgage.
Ms M complained to us. An adjudicator looked  at the complaint  but didnt think  it should be 
upheld. Ms M asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  Ms M said she has refused 
to pay the £495.  She also thinks that Just Retirement  are thieves who are trying to take her 
property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reason.
There is no doubt that extending the lease on the property  improved  its value, so I 
understand why Ms M wanted to do this. But this meant putting in place a new lease, which 
is a change to the security.  Just Retirement  was entitled to ensure the new lease was 
suitable security for the mortgage and to arrange  for there to be a Deed of Substituted  
Security, replacing the old lease with the new.  Im satisfied Just Retirement is entitled to 
instruct solicitors to carry out this work on its behalf.
The account  terms and conditions provide at section 21.5 that Ms M is responsible  for 
paying Just Retirements fees in relation to legal work connected with the security.  This 
clause says:
If the property is leasehold, you must  tell us if you intend to extend the term of the 
lease. You will be responsible for paying all of the legal expenses  and costs,  
including our costs, even if the lease extension does not complete.
Just Retirement is entitled to instruct its own solicitors to do the legal work connected with its 
approval of the new lease  and arranging for a substituted security.  Its completely separate 
work from that carried out by the freeholders  solicitors. So whilst I appreciate  its an expense 
Ms M would rather not pay, Im satisfied  she is required  to pay this. I would also add that the 
Ref: DRN77896672terms and conditions say, at 11.2, that if Ms M doesnt pay its legal fees, Just Retirement is 
allowed to add the £495 to the mortgage  balance, and charge interest on it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7789667