K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the amount  of compensation offered by Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  
for a mis-sold payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy he took out alongside a loan for a 
car.
background
In January 1996 Mr H took out a loan to buy a car and with it was sold a PPI policy. The cost 
of the PPI premium  for the policy was added to what Mr H borrowed so he paid interest on it. 
Mr H had some financial  difficulties and stopped  making the full payments to his loan in 
1997. He came to an arrangement to repay the loan and the PPI was cancelled.  When it was 
cancelled some of the cost of the PPI was removed from the loan as going forward  the PPI 
was not an active  policy. 
Mr H complained the PPI was mis-sold  and Lloyds  upheld his complaint.  It offered  and paid 
him £3,156.11 in compensation.  This was for what he had paid for the PPI premium,  interest 
caused by the PPI and also some compensatory interest because he was out of pocket for 
the amounts he had paid for the PPI.
Mr H wasnt happy with the amount of compensation and brought his claim to this service.  
He felt it should be more as he said he should be paid back the full £1,947.35 premium  
amount originally charged for the PPI and interest plus compensatory  interest. Mr H has also 
said he thought  that Lloyds should  have paid a claim he made on the policy back  in 1996 
which at the time was refused. He felt Lloyds should consider reviewing the claim and pay 
that now.
Lloyds investigated  further and obtained some more information. It then said it would work  
out the amount the claim would have paid in 1996/1997 and if this was more  than the 
amount of the PPI compensation paid, it would also pay this extra  amount the claim would 
have paid. Lloyds  worked out the claim would  have paid around £62.00  more  in total, than 
the compensation Lloyds had already paid to Mr H for the PPI mis-sale. And it said it would 
pay this extra amount to Mr H.
Our adjudicators considered what was now being offered and said it was fair compensation.
But Mr H was still unhappy  with the offer and the complaint was referred to me for a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2020. Lloyds has made  no further 
comments or provided any additional information  following receipt  of my provisional  decision.
Mr H has responded saying he is unhappy  as we have not considered  all the issues about 
his complaint and he has provided  some information about dates he may have been 
unemployed between 1996  and 2001. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN79486952I have also looked  at Mr Hs correspondence and all information provided  following my 
provisional decision. Mr H acknowledges that the amount I am recommending Lloyds should  
pay has increased but says we have still not considered all his points  and responded to 
them.
In this decision I am only considering what is fair and reasonable compensation for Lloyds to 
pay to Mr H because he was mis-sold a PPI policy with his car loan. I cannot consider any 
issues that are not directly  related to this and I also cannot respond in detail to every 
individual point  that has been made. But I have taken account of everything  that has been 
said and all the evidence  provided by both parties when considering  this complaint to ensure 
I reach  a decision which  provides  fair compensation to Mr H. 
mis-sale compensation
According to the evidence  provided, Mr H borrowed £8,800 from Lloyds to buy a car and at 
the same  time he was sold a PPI policy. He borrowed  an extra  £1,947.35  from Lloyds  to pay 
for the PPI and that part of his loan was paid to the insurer for the policy. So in total his loan 
from Lloyds was £9,947.35 made up of £8,800 for his car and £1,947.35 for the PPI policy. 
Everything Mr H borrowed from Lloyds had interest  added to it. The total loan was to be 
repaid over 60 months with monthly  repayments of £277.88. 
Mr H has said he thinks he borrowed more than £8,800 for his own use, but the evidence  I 
have seen about this particular car loan confirms it was for £8,800 plus the cost of the PPI.   
Mr H made  15 monthly payments towards  the loan but then had some  financial problems 
and stopped making the full regular payments.  He made an arrangement with Lloyds to pay 
a small monthly amount towards the loan debt going  forward.  The PPI was cancelled  at this 
point in 1997.
When the PPI was cancelled in 1997, £1,006.66 was removed  from the amount Mr H still 
owed to Lloyds  for his loan. This £1,006.66 was for some of the costs of the PPI as it was no 
longer providing  any cover as it had been  cancelled.  
The £1,006.66 that was taken off what Mr H owed to Lloyds for his loan and refunded  part of 
the £1,947.35 that Mr H had borrowed to buy the PPI policy.  So this meant  he had then only 
borrowed £940.69 for the PPI in total. Taking off that what he had paid for the PPI in his 
monthly repayment  which was £331.45  left £620.24.  This amount was still in the loan 
debt that Mr H was repaying by small monthly amounts.
So when Mr H has fully repaid all the amounts he had borrowed for his loan he will have paid 
£940.69 for the PPI premium and £423.81 in interest caused by the PPI. So this a total of 
£1,364.50 that Mr H should get back for the costs of the mis-sold  PPI. And Lloyds  would also  
pay some  compensatory  interest on this. 
I understand Mr H is still making  the small repayments towards his loan as he hasnt yet fully 
paid back what he borrowed.  But Lloyds in its offer of compensation has paid back the total 
cost of the PPI and compensatory interest even  though Mr H hasnt yet repaid this total 
amount for the PPI, as some of this is still in the debt he is repaying. 
Mr H could reduce his outstanding debt to Lloyds if he wanted to, by using what  he has been 
paid directly by Lloyds for the mis-sold PPI, to remove any PPI cost that is still in this debt he 
is repaying.
Ref: DRN79486953In total Lloyds worked out the compensation for the mis-sale should  be £3,156.11 for the full 
cost and the compensatory interest. It has paid this back to Mr H. I think this amount was 
what I would  have  expected to be paid as compensation for this mis-sold PPI policy.
the claim amount
Mr H asked Lloyds to consider paying the claim for unemployment that he made on the PPI 
policy in 1996.  Lloyds records indicated that a claim was made but it was turned down at the 
time. There are very limited details available as to why it was turned down but it would seem 
that under  the terms and conditions of the policy it was said at the time Mr H was not entitled  
to the claim being  paid.
Mr H is unhappy he wasnt paid the claim on this PPI policy when he did receive  a claim paid 
under a PPI policy he had on his mortgage, which was also with Lloyds. He says this claim 
on his mortgage  PPI was also initially rejected for similar reasons to the claim on the car 
loan PPI. 
At the time Mr H made the PPI claim on the car loan and it was rejected, it seems he did not 
appeal that or follow up the rejection of the claim in any way. But, with his mortgage PPI 
claim he did follow up the initial rejection and clarified some points so the mortgage  claim 
was eventually paid.  
Lloyds has considered the situation and told this service in correspondence  that as we 
have agreed we can accept this claim on the basis of the mortgage claim being  processed,  
we have mirrored the details we hold for that claim as previously  noted  in our 
correspondence. So what Lloyds has said here is that it would  look at what a claim on his 
car loan PPI would have  paid out, and work  this out based on how the mortgage claim paid 
out. So it would calculate the car loan PPI claim as being for the same length  of time the 
mortgage claim was paid. 
 
If a claim on his car loan PPI had been paid in 1996  to Mr H, then any amount paid out for 
the claim would  now be taken off the compensation for the PPI mis-sale complaint that has 
been upheld. This is accepted as being fair in circumstances  where  claims have been paid 
on policies that are later found to have been  mis-sold policy.   
Basically as this policy has been found to be mis-sold, it means it should never have been 
sold to Mr H at the time. That means Mr H wouldnt have  borrowed the extra amount to pay 
for the policy  which he is getting back in compensation. But it also means no policy would 
have been in place and so no claim would have been paid. 
So to put a consumer back in the position he would  have been in when a policy is mis-sold 
means not only looking at what was actually  paid for the policy  and refunding that, but also 
taking into account  any amount  paid for a claim that would never have been paid if no policy  
was in place.
In this case Mr H wasnt  paid the claim in 1996  but Lloyds has said, to be fair, it would pay 
the same  amount to Mr H that a claim would have paid out at that time. But that also means  
Mr H doesnt get back  all the costs of the PPI that he paid as well as the amount a claim 
would have paid.  He cannot  have  all the money he paid for the policy refunded,  as if he 
never took it out, and then also have a claim amount  paid on the policy  that should not have 
been taken out. 
Ref: DRN79486954Lloyds has said the mortgage PPI claim was paid for 5 months and using that information  it 
would estimate the loan PPI claim over a similar period. Lloyds says that is mirroring what  
the mortgage claim did. So it seems a fair approach to assume the same  period of 
unemployment is used  for calculating the loan claim as was effective at the time for the 
mortgage claim.
Lloyds then worked out how much Mr H would have received if his claim on the PPI policy  
with his loan, was based on the claim being paid for five months. It told us in July 2018 that 
the claim amount  would be £62.15  more  than the mis-sale compensation and said this was 
made up of:-

5 monthly repayments that would have been made under the claim that equal  
£1389.40 (5 x monthly repayment  £277.88)
Interest calculated on this value from 23/12/1997 (first paid date of the mortgage 
claim) until todays date totalling  £1828.86 (deduction made from gross for 
appropriate tax).
Deduction made for redress previously  received  by [Mr H] £3156.11
£1389.40 + £1828.86  - £3156.11 = £62.15
And Lloyds  offered to pay this claim amount additional figure  of £62.15,  in addition to what it 
had already paid to Mr H, as the PPI compensation. 
I think it is a fair approach  in all the circumstances of this case that Lloyds pays  the higher of 
the claim amount  or the mis-sale compensation, as it has offered to do. But Im not satisfied 
that the claim amount Lloyds calculated, as set out above, to do this is correct. 
There is limited  information available about the mortgage claim and the records do indicate  
five payments were  made to Mr H for that claim. However the amount actually paid in total 
for the claim is equivalent to a 12 months  claim based on the monthly mortgage payments. 
I think what happened is that the first payment that was made  for the claim included  
backdated amounts  for a number of previous months whilst  the claim was being processed.  
Then a further  four monthly payments were made, making a total of 12 months for the claim 
but paid over a five month period.
 
Therefore I think Lloyds should  pay Mr H the amount of an estimated 12 months claim for 
unemployment on the car loan PPI, deducting  what  it has already paid in compensation for 
the mis-sold PPI.
Mr H feels the full five-year loan term should be considered when looking at claims that 
should be paid for his unemployment. And he thinks he should  be paid claims for all times he 
was unemployed  during that five year period. In response to my provisional decision Mr H 
has provided some information  about  the dates  he was unemployed during the 60 months 
the loan was supposed to run. In total he says he was unemployed for 50 months during this 
period.
But the policy that Mr H took out with his loan would  not have paid out a claim for 
unemployment for 50 months of a 60 month loan term. All insurance policies have 
restrictions on claims that can be made. The maximum period for an unemployment claim 
paid at one time would be 12 months and nothing more  would be paid until a return  to work 
was proven for a minimum period, normally 6 months. 
Ref: DRN79486955Mr H has also provided a copy of the terms and conditions of his mortgage PPI policy,  and 
these also indicated that a PPI claim  would only be paid out for a maximum of 12 months 
and a six month return to work would be required before a further claim is paid.
The policy Mr H had on his car loan only ran for 15 months. So as the policy was cancelled,  
it was no longer active and no back dated  claims can now be considered after the 15-month 
period the PPI was active. Mr H only paid for the 15 months  cover  as on cancellation  he got 
a refund of the cost for the future cover period.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr H but the PPI on his loan would  never have paid out claims for 
50 months of the 60 month loan period, even if the claim had been paid in 1996.  After 12 
months of payments  it would have stopped paying until Mr H had returned to work  for at 
least six months. 
In reaching a fair decision I have to consider all the facts available. Lloyds offered to pay the 
extra amount a claim would have paid,  over and above the mis-sale compensation, as this 
would be fair compensation. It seems in view of the circumstances at the time,  and the 
successful claim  on the mortgage  PPI that there perhaps should  have been a successful 
claim paid on this car loan PPI. The mortgage PPI paid out for 12 months,  so it seems to me 
reasonable the loan PPI would have resulted in the same length  of claim. 
Mr H has also said in response to my provisional decision that he felt pressured to take out 
the PPI and from what he was told thought the PPI would  repay his full loan and pay out for 
all his unemployment periods. 
As it was so long ago I cannot be sure if pressure  was put on Mr H or if the details he was 
given were unclear  and confusing. But Lloyds has in any event said the PPI was mis-sold, so 
basically it agrees he should not have been  sold the PPI. And under the terms and 
conditions of the insurance it would not have paid out what Mr H may have thought. 
Lloyds is being  fair and reasonable in offering to take into account  what  Mr H may have been 
paid for a claim on his car loan PPI and paying to Mr H any additional amount a claim would 
have paid that was more  than the amount of the mis-sale compensation. But it is also fair 
that is based on the actual fact that the PPI was only active for a maximum of 15 month paid.
As Lloyds  has offered  to pay the difference  between the compensation for the mis-sale and 
the amount a claim would  have paid out, it should now pay the amount still due for the claim 
amount, over and above what it has already paid for the mis-sale  compensation. And it 
should also pay 8% simple interest  on this extra amount.
I think this approach would provide fair compensation  to Mr H.
arrangement for debt repayment
In his complaint  Mr H also raised  concerns  about the arrangement  he made with Lloyds 
relating to his small monthly payment to repay the loan. However his points are not related to 
or caused directly  by the PPI. His issues  about sale of his debt are a separate matter  
between him and Lloyds. Lloyds is refunding to Mr H directly anything  that is part of his 
ongoing debt and repayments that was caused by the PP. Anything  more he feels should  be 
refunded is not connected to the PPI which is what I am looking at in this decision.
Ref: DRN79486956summary
I have considered all the evidence  and information provided by both parties in this complaint. 
I would also confirm to Mr H I have  taken full account of his phone calls in response to my 
provisional decision and also the additional written information he has provided. 
Mr Hs additional comments and information following my provisional decision have not 
persuaded me he is entitled to additional amounts to be paid for his claim.  With any policy 
there is a period that has to pass before a claim can be made.  And when a claim has been 
paid out for the maximum period for unemployment  there is then a further  time when a 
claimant would  need  to be back in work  before a further claim can be made.
Here the policy  was only actually active for 15 months. So working out the amount a claim 
may have  paid out within this timescale,  and paying  the excess  amount between that claim 
amount and the mis-sale  compensation to Mr H, in addition  to the mis-sale compensation he 
has already received, is fair compensation. 
So I am directing  Lloyds  should now pay the additional  amount that a claim payment would 
have paid over and above the mis-sale compensation, as it offered,  but calculated  for 12 
months. This is in line with the length of time the mortgage claim was paid and which  Lloyds 
said it would  mirror in paying  compensation to settle this complaint about the car loan PPI. 
If Mr H accepts my decision  within the timescales  indicated, it will be legally binding on 
Lloyds and it would have to work out the compensation  as I have indicated. If Mr H doesnt 
accept my findings, then Lloyds is not bound to accept what I have said and Mr H can if he 
wishes seek to take his complaint through the legal  system.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above.  I am directing  Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay to Mr H the extra 
amount a claim on the car loan PPI policy would have paid for 12 months, as I have 
indicated. This is in addition to the mis-sale compensation  already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948695