K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains about the settlement offered by Telefonica Insurance  S.A. for a claim  made 
under her mobile  phone  insurance policy.
background
Mrs O took out a mobile phone insurance policy to cover her sons  phone. The phone was 
damaged but Telefonica couldnt replace it with an identical make and model so offered 
alternative phones  instead. Mrs O doesnt think the replacements offered are of equivalent 
specification to the original phone, so has complained.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but felt the replacements Telefonica had offered 
were of similar specifications to the original phone and so it had met the claim in line with the 
terms of the policy. Mrs O didnt agree, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
If the phone covered is broken, the terms of Mrs Os policy say Telefonica can replace it with 
one of the same or a similar specification, as determined by Telefonica.
Having looked  at the replacement phones offered by Telefonica and compared them  to the 
original phone, I accept that there  are differences in the specifications. But, where  the 
identical make  and model isnt available, it will always be difficult  to find a replacement  that 
exactly matches the specifications of the original phone. Particularly as mobile phone 
technology and the models available move quickly and the original model was around two 
years old when the claim was made.
The replacements offered by Telefonica  are worse than the original phone in some areas, 
but are better than it in others.  I think this is unavoidable when trying to find an alternative  
model of phone. And I think the differences between the original phone  and the 
replacements are small enough that it would still be reasonable to say the replacements  are 
similar to the original.
So I think the replacement  phones Telefonica offered were of a similar specification to the 
original phone, and so it has acted  in line with the terms of the policy.
Mrs Os son has said he couldve  chosen to buy one of the replacement models Telefonica 
has offered, but chose  the original phone  instead.  And I appreciate that he chose to buy a 
different phone to the replacements Telefonica has offered. But the policy doesnt offer like-
for-like cover. And, as Ive explained above, I think Telefonica has met the claim in line with 
the terms of the policy.
Telefonica offered  to send Mrs O a memory  card for the replacement phone  chosen, to 
make up for the smaller internal memory it had. And it offered to pay £50 compensation for 
not sending the memory  card with the replacement phone. I think  this offer is fair and I leave 
it up to Mrs O whether she now wishes to accept it.
Ref: DRN70111382my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject the decision before  21 December 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7011138