K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc applied  unfair charges at the end of 
his hire agreement.  
background
Mr S entered into a hire agreement with Toyota Financial Services  in 2015. At the end of the 
agreement the car was inspected and Mr S was told that he would be charged  for damage to 
the car. Mr S disputes the damage charges in regard to the mirror and the bumpers. He 
does not dispute the damage to the alloy wheels.
Mr S says that the mirror  was not broken but there  was a very small crack which he says 
was fair wear and tear. He says he had the bumpers repaired before the inspection and that 
the inspector said they had not been painted properly which he didnt accept. 
Mr S refused  to sign the inspection report and the car was collected later that day. He says 
the person collecting  the car also carried out an inspection  and that only scratches  on the 
alloy wheels  were noted. He says the collection agent did not agree with the issues raised  
regarding the bumpers and mirror.
Toyota Financial Services says that the damage fell outside of the industry wear and tear 
guidelines and that charges were applied in line with its terms and conditions.  It says that the 
collection driver did not submit a copy of his report but that charges were  based on the first 
inspection report.  It says the inspector  is trained to assess and document  the damage  which  
the collection driver is not and that although the mirror  was not damaged  the casing was 
cracked and the indicator flasher broken.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought the damage recorded fell outside  
of the fair wear and tear guidelines and so did not find the charges had been unfairly 
applied.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his case  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S entered into a hire agreement in 2015  and in doing so agreed  to its terms and 
conditions. The terms set out that the requirements in regard to the return of the car and that 
costs will be incurred if these are not met. 
In this case Mr S car was inspected on 16 May 2018. The report recorded an unsatisfactory 
repair on the front and rear bumpers requiring a machine polish; a broken door mirror 
requiring replacement; and three scratched wheels requiring refurbishment. Mr S has not 
disputed the damage to the wheels.
In regard to the bumpers,  Mr S has said that he had repairs  carried  out before the car was 
inspected. However  the inspection report says these were  unsatisfactory and the bumpers 
required a machine polish. I have looked  at the photographs of the bumpers and can see 
Ref: DRN74767612marks on these. So, while I appreciate Mr S comments  that the repair  was satisfactory  I find, 
on balance, I accept  the comments in the report that a machine polish is required.
The most significant charge relates to the mirror. The photographs show the damage to the 
casing and the indicator flasher.  I have  considered  the fair wear and tear guidelines provided  
by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) and these say that cracked 
door mirrors  are not acceptable and so I do not find it unreasonable that this charge was 
applied.
Overall, I do not find that Toyota Financial Services has applied  unfair charges in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7476761