K820x#14complaint
Mr W, represented by Mrs W, complains that Argos Limited unfairly applied  a default to his 
account.
background
Mr W entered into a credit  card agreement with Argos  in April 2017. A default  was applied  to 
his account in February 2018.
Mr W says he didnt receive  any letters  about the default being applied  and wasnt  aware this 
had happened  until he applied for a mortgage.  Mrs W says Mr W was making  his minimum 
payments and while a few were missed the card was paid off once  it moved to a debt 
recovery agent. 
Mr W wants the default removed from his account  so he can apply for a mortgage.
Argos says that statements were being  sent to Mr W each month and that Mr W made a 
payment on 24th September 2017 but then no payments  were  received until 26 March 2018  
when five pounds  was paid. It says due to the arrears on the account a default  notice was 
issued on 18 December  2017 and as the required payment wasnt made  a default was 
registered on 1 February  2018. It says the default  notices said the account might be passed 
to a debt recovery  agent.
Argos says that although  information  and text messages were being  sent to Mr W about his 
account, no contact  was received until 26 February 2018, when Mrs W contacted it to ask to 
set up a payment  arrangement for five pounds a month. It says Mrs W was told the account 
couldnt be discussed with her unless  Mr W was present  to provide authority. It says the 
account was passed to the debt recovery agent  on 9 March 2018. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She was satisfied that Argos had sent Mr W 
arrears letters and default notices and that the default had been  applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. Mrs W said that Mr W didnt get any calls or texts  
from Argos about the default being applied and that Argos should have spoken to him before 
this happened. She said that account was paid off in full and the default should  be removed 
from Mr Ws account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting  this issue has been for Mr W as he says he wasnt  aware  of the 
default on his account until he tried to apply for a mortgage. However my role is to decide, 
based on the information provided by all parties, whether Argos  did anything  wrong,  and if so 
what it is required to do to put this right.
I note the comments made  about Mr W not being  aware that his account would be defaulted. 
However, having looked through  the evidence I can see that he was sent his monthly  
statements and so he would have been aware  of the requirement to make  at least  the 
Ref: DRN78782102minimum payment due. The terms and conditions set out what  can happen if payments are 
missed. 
Mr W was also sent letters showing the arrears on his account  which  noted what  would 
happen if action  wasnt taken. I have also seen a copy of the default  notice  sent in 
December 2017.  While  I understand  these  may not have been received, as they were  sent 
to Mr W at the correct address I accept that Argos  did what was required of it to inform  Mr W 
about the situation on his account.
The default  notice  set out what  action  was required and as this didnt happen, I cant say that 
Argos did anything wrong by applying the default. 
I understand that Mrs W says Argos should have spoken to Mr W before applying the 
default. However I think by sending the arrears and default letters and the text messages 
asking Mr W to make contact, Argos did enough  to try to make contact with Mr W before the 
default was applied.
I know this decision will be a disappointment  to Mr W and that he feels  the default should be 
removed. But as the evidence suggests the default was applied correctly I do not find I can 
uphold this complaint.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7878210