K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the early  repayment charge that Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC 
charged him for paying back  his loan early.
background
Mr M applied  online  for a Tesco loan for £10,000 on 21 June 2018. On 24 July he asked 
Tesco for the early  repayment settlement amount on the loan. He says Tesco charged him 
about £290.02 which he says is disproportionate to the loan and unfair.
Tesco says Mr M was outside the 14 day period for cancelling  the loan without interest being 
applied. It says the terms and conditions which Mr M agreed to make  clear that if a customer  
wishes to cancel the loan early then interest  is applied. Tesco  says it gave Mr M the early 
settlement figure which was calculated in line with the Consumer Credit (Early  Settlement) 
regulations and hasnt made an error.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator  didnt think Tesco had made  a mistake 
or acted  unfairly.  She thought Tesco had acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
loan agreement and said she wouldve  expected Mr M to have contacted  Tesco if he didnt 
understand any of those  terms  and conditions. She also thought that Mr M could instruct an 
accountant if he thought the early settlement calculation was wrong.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says at no time during the online application  was he 
directed to the terms and conditions. He doesnt think  it reasonable to instruct  an accountant 
and says the calculation is incomprehensible. Mr M says the loan application itself shouldve  
contained information about  the early settlement amount and the terms and conditions are 
unfair. He would like the £290.02 refunded and to receive £100 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that when  Mr M took out the loan, he agreed to the terms and conditions of it. 
Im also satisfied that those terms and conditions make clear  on a number of occasions that 
Mr M had 14 days to withdraw from the loan without any interest or penalty  if he repaid the 
loan within  30 days. I think those terms and conditions also make clear  Mr Ms right to settle  
the loan early but that interest will be charged. Ive looked  at the information Mr M wouldve 
seen when applying  for his loan and Im satisfied  that information is prominently and clearly  
displayed. And I wouldve  expected Mr M to have contacted Tesco if he was unsure about 
any of the terms and conditions before agreeing to them.
I appreciate Mr M says at no time during the online application was he directed to the terms 
and conditions. But having looked  at the application  form I have to disagree with him. Im 
satisfied that Mr M ticked a box on the application  form and by doing so confirmed his 
agreement to those  terms and conditions.
I also appreciate that Mr M says the interest he was charged was disproportionate to the 
loan and the terms and conditions were  unfair.  But I think the early settlement charge was 
calculated in line with the Consumer Credit  (Early  Settlement) Regulations. And if Mr M 
Ref: DRN79313302believes that calculation  to be wrong then I would expect him to provide expert evidence of 
that. I accept  that calculation is often confusing but for the reasons Ive explained Ive not 
seen any evidence that figure  was incorrect. Ive not seen any evidence that the terms and 
conditions were unfair but think such maters would be for a court  to determine  in any event.
Overall I dont think Tesco has acted  unfairly  or made a mistake here. For those reasons I 
cant fairly order it to refund the £290.02 or pay Mr M the compensation he would  like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7931330