K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M query why Everyday Lending  Limited  (ELL) sold them critical illness  cover  as 
part of a £2,000 loan in 2013 but didnt include this when they took out an identical loan 
recently. They wonder  if this cover was, in effect,  Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI), and 
was not appropriate.
background
Mr and Mrs M added  that they didnt  recall any discussion  about the critical illness  cover in 
2013 and that they both had sick pay benefits via their employers so question  whether this 
was needed. They must have assumed this was compulsory, otherwise  they would not have 
agreed to it.
ELL rejected the complaint, saying:
Its critical illness and related policies were  standalone products unrelated to the loan 
but it rolled the premiums into the overall  loan
These were not a form of PPI, and would pay out in the event of the assureds critical 
illness irrespective of whether the loan had been  paid off
There was no evidence that Mr and Mrs M had been told this was compulsory; and 
loan was approved before the face-to-face discussion about insurance cover
Mr and Mrs M agreed that they did not have any existing cover  that they wanted to 
use to protect the new loan;  and agreed to this new policy
An adjudicator at this service  felt the complaint should be upheld  but for different reasons to 
those outlined by Mr and Mrs M. He thought the evidence showed that Mr and Mrs M were 
aware that the two policies  a joint cover plan of £2,000 and a separate  £10,000  cover  plan 
 were not compulsory,  even though  Mr M said he thought that agreeing  to these would  
enhance their chances  of getting the loan.
Nor did he think ELL ought  to have recommended more life or critical illness cover when Mr 
and Mrs M asked for a significantly larger loan recently.
But he did not think, based  on the available evidence, that Mr and Mrs M were put in a 
sufficiently informed decision to make a decision about whether they wanted to go ahead  
with the recommendations, for the following reasons:
The premiums for both the insurance policies were not competitive compared to the 
life and critical illness market generally
The critical illness policy was funded by a single  premium  which  was included  in the 
loan and itself was charged at 58.4% interest
The customers were going  to pay a total premium, including  interest, of some  £940 to 
cover a loan of £2,000, which was hugely disproportionate
A joint life and critical illness policy on the open  market, to cover  the loan for the 
repayment period,  would have cost a fraction  of this
Theres no evidence of any warning  to the customers as to how financially 
disadvantageous the policies could actually be for them
Its not realistic that these customers,  properly informed, would have gone ahead  and 
increased their loan commitments by such a significant amount in order  to buy such 
modest cover
Ref: DRN77460662They should have  been properly informed, but were not  and he wasnt persuaded 
that they would have  later bought insurance  cover at all had they left ELLs office 
without having  done so
Given this, ELL should refund each portion of monthly repayments which  applied  to the 
insurance premiums and related interest, with 8% gross simple  interest  on each of those 
payments from the date they were made to the date the settlement is made.
ELL did not agree, and said:
It is not a financial  advisor and does not provide 'whole of market'  advice and there 
was no requirement  to inform customers of prices they may be able to get elsewhere
The costs were  disclosed  to the customers and there  is no requirement for a 
company to price  their policies competitively compared to the general  market
Single premium policies were  permitted to be sold
No company would  put a warning on a product  they are trying  to sell to say that a 
customer would be financially disadvantaged  by taking it. There  was no requirement  
to put any warnings on the products
The terms which the adjudicator believes the customers  should have been informed 
about are not in line with regulatory requirements and would be outside  of its remit 
i.e. to give whole of market advice
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with a number  of ELLs  points.  It was not required to inform  customers  that they 
could get a cheaper quote elsewhere,  its costs were disclosed (although not fully explained) 
and it is legitimate to sell single premium  policies.
But I still believe its responsibilities were far wider than it appears to recognise, and that 
there is no evidence  to suggest it carried  out those full responsibilities;  notably,  to give Mr 
and Mrs M sufficient and appropriate information such  that they were able to make a fully 
informed decision as to whether they wanted to go ahead with the recommendations.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs M applied online for a short term loan of £2,000 to cover  unexpected 
kitchen improvements. They did not seek investment  advice or proactively  indicate they were 
looking for any form of insurance.
From what  Ive read, while ELL may have  provisionally approved the loan prior to the face-
to-face meeting  with its advisor (which  it insisted on), Ive seen no evidence  to suggest Mr 
and Mrs M were told prior to the outset of the meeting  that their loan had been  approved   or 
that they did not need to discuss any other policies as a condition of the loan. From the flow 
diagram provided  by ELL it looks as if clients were required to listen  to a pitch  from ELLs 
salesperson/advisor before the loan was finalised and confirmed.
All this is relevant,  in my view, when considering whether Mr and Mr M were in a fully 
informed position,  firstly, to assess whether it might  be either  necessary  or valuable to agree  
to one of the proposed insurance add-ons. To this extent, I can understand if Mr or Mrs M 
felt obligated to agree to something extra even this was not contractually necessary.
Ref: DRN77460663Crucially, given they had expressed no prior interest  in taking out more  borrowing than was 
necessary to cover the urgent £2,000 commitment,  I think  the advisor had a particular 
responsibility to ensure  they were fully appraised  of the benefits and potential drawbacks of 
any recommendation which had not arisen  from their expressed needs.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys DISP rules outline  a business/advisors responsibilities in 
the COBS rules, section  9, and these include,  in various sub sections and sentences, the 
need to fully assess a customers needs,  circumstances, financial situation including  income, 
assets and commitments,  ability  to bear loss and knowledge of the type of product being 
recommended.
While it would not always be necessary to meet all these requirements depending on the 
product involved,  I have  seen no evidence that ELL sought to do barely  any of these things. 
Mr and Mrs M were  clearly short of money hence  the need  for this £2,000 loan and were  
apparently willingness to pay an additional £1,166 in interest (at 69% per annum) plus a 
£150 arrangement  fee to obtain this. So they were  prepared  to pay an additional £1,300  in 
order to borrow £2,000 for two years.
Given what little is known  about their finances this seems likely to have been  a serious 
financial commitment in order  to meet their kitchen overspend. Therefore, I think  the advisor 
needed to fully explore the extent  to which they might want  to further extend their borrowings 
by paying an additional £700 to pay for insurance  protect for this £2,000  loan. In effect,  
borrowing £4,000  to repay a £2,000  debt.
I have seen no evidence  he explained this important consideration. While the basic loan 
agreement separates  out the various costs and interest, the figures  are not added  up in the 
way Ive outlined.
If Mr and Mrs M had selected this option  online  at the time they had applied for the loan, this 
would have constituted a non-advised sale and I dont think ELL would have had any 
responsibility to assess  the suitability or affordability of this add-on insurance. But this was 
an advised sale, initiated by ELL and  from what Ive read  a sales pitch which was a 
condition of final loan approval. So I am satisfied that the advisor needed to fully assess Mr 
and Mrs Ms needs, circumstances and objectives  and advise  accordingly.  There is no 
evidence he did this.
Further, the advisor notes that Mr M had workplace sickness  and death-in-service  benefits, 
Mrs M may have had some  and they had some life insurance, none of these are spelt  out in 
terms amounts, term etc. So I dont believe he had a sufficient knowledge  or understanding  
of their existing cover  to be certain  as to how valuable his recommended  additional cover 
(for this loan) would have  been to Mr and Mrs M. I am not saying that additional bespoke 
cover for specific new loans is not, in principle, appropriate but it is important for the advisor  
to have all the facts about existing cover before making a recommendation.
Given this, I dont believe they were in a fully informed position to decide to go ahead.  From 
what Ive read, I also dont think they would have gone ahead  if a) the advisor  had made it 
transparently clear  that the loan had already been  approved or would now be approved 
without agreeing to any insurance cover, and b) The advisor  had fully explained the total 
cost of this cover, drawn  their attention  to how much more this added  to their loan, and c) 
asked them to consider whether they could definitely afford this extra  sum and wanted to 
commit to it.
Ref: DRN77460664I therefore instruct ELL to refund each portion of Mr and Mrs Ms monthly repayments which 
applied to the insurance premiums and related interest, with 8% gross  simple interest per 
annum on each of these  payments from the date each was made  to the date of settlement of 
this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Everyday  Lending Limited to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7746066