K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Sanlam Life & Pensions  UK Limited  wrongly recommended  they 
take out long-term savings plans - in 1990  - which  needed to be held for a minimum of 20 
years to deliver a worthwhile return after charges.
background
When Mr and Mrs N complained to Sanlam it initially upheld Mrs Ns complaint but then 
withdrew the offer. It then told this service that it did not give permission  for us to assess  
either of their complaints (which were  submitted as a joint complaint) as they had both been  
made too late under the relevant time limits. It subsequently withdrew this objection and 
gave us consent to consider their merits.
An adjudicator at this service  felt their complaint/s should be upheld. She said it needed to 
be clear that Mr and Mrs N wanted to commit to a long-term savings plan - 20 years or more  
 for these  to have  been sensible recommendations. She thought  the evidence strongly 
indicated that Mr and Mrs N were  looking for a much more flexible time commitment in order  
to fund a variety of short and medium  term ambitions.  In fact, she felt nearly all of their 
declared objectives were  short/medium term rather than long-term ones. These included 
funding holidays,  a sports car, a holiday home,  a boat and a home gym.
As a result, she felt Sanlam should pay compensation based on this services normal 
redress formula for calculating potential investment loss on products taken out at this time 
i.e. a combination  of the Bank of Englands base rate plus 1%, followed by 8% simple  
interest per annum on any calculated loss (also the basis of Sanlams original redress offer).
Sanlam did not agree, and said:
Mr and Mrs N had healthy  incomes, wanted  to retire at 50 and these plans provided 
for this long-term objective
Their various stated objectives were many, and amounted to wish lists rather than 
concrete, necessarily-achievable goals; so they cannot be taken at face value
There were  no dates  recorded for these wish list desirables so it was not clear  when 
they realistically hoped to acquire  these  things
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the investigation stage of this complaint Mr and Mrs Ns representatives made 
additional points  about the alleged unsuitability of these recommendations and the nature of 
the documentation provided.  The adjudicator and Sanlam also discussed other issues  such 
as whether this was predominantly a life insurance or savings plan. I have read all the 
correspondence and considered all the issues at dispute.
However, fundamentally, I am satisfied  this complaint - and its merits  revolves around one 
central issue: whether  Mr and Mrs N were looking for an exclusively  long-term savings plan; 
and if not, whether these were suitable recommendations.
Ref: DRN76074952From what  Ive read, Sanlam does  not dispute that these plans needed  to be held for a 
minimum of 20 years  for maximum  cost-effectiveness given the charging structure. I am 
therefore extremely surprised it has defended  these  sales,  by in effect saying that one 
cannot take seriously Mr and Mrs Ns savings objectives as recorded  by its advisor.
This seems a strange line of argument, particularly as compared  to the advisors  fact find 
recorded considerable detail about  Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances and savings goals. I see 
no reason to doubt that these were  based  on what Mr and Mrs N said were there objectives 
when considering savings plans. 
It was therefore the advisors responsibility  to make an appropriate  recommendation based  
on Mr and Mrs Ns stated objectives. As the vast majority of these  were  clearly not 
exclusively long-term  goals these plane  were not appropriate.  Even  if one accepts Sanlams 
argument that some of their planned purchases were simply part of a wish list, others  were  
clearly realistic and understandable goals such as to save  for holidays.  As Mr and Mrs N 
were 31 and 29 respectively, and with two young children, I think  it is highly unlikely that they 
were predominantly  looking to save for holidays  more than 20 years hence  when their 
children were grown up.
I am therefore satisfied  this complaint  should be upheld and that Sanlam  should  pay 
compensation based on the standard formula recommended by this service in these  
circumstances. It should  compare the return Mr and Mrs N received  on their savings plans 
on surrender with what they would have got if theyd made  the same payments on the same 
dates and earned interest equal to the Bank  of Englands base rate plus 1% on these  
amounts. For clarity, it should carry out separate calculations for Mr N and Mrs N. If either or 
both of these calculations shows a loss it should pay the losses  and add 8% simple interest 
per annum  to these  figures, from the date each surrendered  their plans to the date of 
settlement of this complaint. This is to compensate them for being unfairly deprived of this 
money in the years  since.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Sanlam  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7607495