K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled his personal accident  
insurance claim.
background 
In 2012, Mr F had a fall at home and was taken to hospital.  He was diagnosed with acute 
cauda equina  syndrome (CES) and required surgery. After a delay due to ill health, Mr F 
made a claim under  his personal  accident policy and it was declined.
Our service initially considered a complaint about  Mr Fs claim in 2015 and following this 
Great Lakes agreed  to consider things again.  
In 2017, Great Lakes declined Mr Fs claim for permanent disability and in 2018 they also 
said they didnt  think any hospitalisation benefit  should be paid. They reached these 
conclusions as they said the medical  evidence didnt suggest Mr Fs fall was the sole reason 
for his disability. This was due to the fact Mr F suffered from a degenerative spinal disc 
disease that dated back to 1986.  They also highlighted  the fact the medical reports 
concluded he was likely  to be diagnosed  with CES,  within a year of the accident, if the fall 
hadnt taken place. Lastly, they didnt think the evidence suggested Mr F attended hospital 
due to the injuries he sustained because of the fall.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and asked  Great  Lakes to consider making a 
proportional settlement  in relation to both parts of the claim. This is because he was satisfied 
the fall resulted in Mr F attending hospital and receiving a permeant disability. However, he 
also believed the medical evidence suggested  his other health conditions impacted his 
diagnosis. Great Lakes  agreed with the investigators  suggestions and provided the 
calculations for a proportional settlement. Following  this, our investigator  confirmed his 
findings in an opinion letter. 
Mr F didnt  agree with the proposed settlement. In summary, he said he thought his 
hospitalisation claim should be paid in full as Great  Lakes hadnt provided  evidence to show  
his stay was impacted by his other health conditions. He also provided evidence  to show  the 
rehabilitation clinic he visited was part of an NHS Hospital trust. He also said he didnt think 
the proposed  proportional  settlement for the disability benefit element of his claim was fair.
As both sides disagree, Ive considered  the complaint afresh.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has raised  several  points  in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address  all of them  in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
Im sorry  to hear Mr F has had such a difficult time since having his accident.  I can see that 
this matter has impacted  him emotionally and financially. I also appreciate that this claim has 
been outstanding for a long time. 
Ref: DRN75659682Mr F will be disappointed to hear Ive reached  the same outcome as our investigator, but Ill 
explain why. 
is the proportionate settlement fair?
Under the relevant rules  and appropriate  industry  guidelines Great Lakes  was required to 
consider Mr Fs claim promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt decline it unreasonably.
The policy wording says:
We will pay to you the appropriate  Benefit  if, during  any Period of Insurance  for which 
you have paid and we have agreed  to accept the Premium, an insured person 
sustains Bodily Injury  which, within 52 weeks, is a sole cause of Permanent  
Disability, Death or Hospitalisation.
Bodily Injury is defined as:
Bodily Injury means bodily injury resulting solely and directly  from accidental outward 
violent and visible means and does not include sickness or disease  or any naturally 
occurring condition or degenerative process.
The policy has a benefit table which sets out the maximum  benefit  payable for various 
permanent disabilities. It also explains: 
For forms of Permanent  Disability  not mentioned above the amount of Benefit will be 
assessed by comparing the above  list with the Permanent  Disability sustained.  For 
instance, under the Standard Plan the Benefit paid would be £12,500  for loss of half 
the sight in one eye (i.e. half the sum in item 3)
This means  to fully uphold this complaint; Mr F would need to show;  his fall was the only 
reason he became permanently disabled. However, as the policy also allows for the 
possibility of a proportionate settlement - Ive also considered this.
There are two relevant  medical reports completed by two different  consultant  neurosurgeons 
who Ill refer to as Mr T and Mr K. 
Mr T in his reports  said: 
All I can say is that in my opinion and on a balance  of probabilities the current  
neurological and functional problems are a consequence of the fall that occurred on 
16.07.12. However, and on a balance of probabilities, Mr F would have developed 
similar symptoms  in any event within one year if the accident  had not occurred.
And Mr K said:
In terms of overall disability, this has been  magnified  by the effects of his lumbar 
spine pathology.  I would  estimate  that his overall disability has increased from 30% 
to 50%.  He largely  has restrictions to his mobility, tolerance  for walking and the 
additional neuropathic pains in his lower limbs, together  with his bladder and bowel 
dysfunction. These were  not present prior to the index  events.
Ref: DRN75659683In terms of causation,  it is noted that he suffered from spinal canal stenosis at L4/5 
which was the pre-operated  level 30 years earlier. It is my view that the disorder is 
one of a long-standing  degenerative nature, and that any precipitation by a slipping 
or bending manoeuvre is likely to have been modest and that this is a condition  that 
was going to occur in any event within the next year or two.
He also answered  the following questions:
106  Do you consider  Mr F to have a permanent  loss of use of one or both legs 
caused directly by his accident in July 2012,  and if so, do you consider it to be a total 
loss of use?
Mr F does  have  a permanent impairment  of the use of both his legs caused  directly 
by the accident in July 2012.  The loss is partial in that he is able to walk 40-50 yards 
with the assistance of elbow crutches.
106.2  If not total loss, can you quantity  the percentage loss of us in one or both 
legs?
50% loss in both legs
106.3  If he has not lost the use of his legs do you consider  Mr F to have a disability 
as a result  of the accident which prevents him from following any occupation as 
noted above?   
Yes
As these  reports were completed by suitably qualified independent medical experts, I think  it 
was reasonable  for Great Lakes to rely on the recommendations within  them. 
Both consultants accepted that Mr F had experienced a fall, which  caused  a permanent 
disability. However, they also highlighted that Mr F had a pre-existing degenerative condition  
that also contributed  to this. Mr T said Mr F would have been diagnosed with CES within  a 
year, if the fall hadnt taken place.  And Mr F said it would have happened within a year or 
two.
As Mr K concluded that Mr F had experienced 50% loss of use in both of his legs, I think  
Great Lakes has acted  reasonably by relying  on this figure in relation  to the settlement. I also 
think theyve concluded fairly that the benefit should  be restricted  to one year.  This is 
because it reflects the fact Mr F suffered a permeant disability prematurely because  of the 
accident. 
Mr F has said he thinks this calculation should  be based on at least 1.5 years  as Mr K said it 
could take one or two years before his disability occurred. I acknowledge Mr Fs comments  
in relation to this. However, as both reports say it was possible Mr F could have been 
diagnosed with his condition within a year,  I dont  think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes 
to use this timeframe.
Mr F has also explained that he doesnt think it would be fair to base the settlement 
calculation on the average life expectancy of a male in the UK. Instead  hes said it should be 
based on his own life expectancy. I understand why Mr F feels  his life expectancy  is shorter 
than most  given his health concerns. However,  I also dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly  
Ref: DRN75659684by applying the UK average. This is because it would  be very difficult  to determine Mr Fs 
actual life expectancy with any certainty.
Mr F has asked why he hasnt received benefit under the Permanent Total Disablement 
from all gainful employment section of the policy. I have considered  this, but as the 
maximum amount of benefit  is the same  as for Permanent  Total Loss  of two or more  limbs 
or eye it wouldnt change  the settlement. I also dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mr F to be able to claim under both sections of the policy as hed be paid twice for the same 
injury arising from the same set of circumstances.  
Mr F has also highlighted the fact his injury  increased his overall disability  and not just the 
use of his legs. This is understandable as I note the medical reports  suggest his overall  
disability increased  by 20%. However, as the policy doesnt provide benefit for full body 
disability, I dont think Great Lakes  acted unreasonably by declining to cover this.
I think Great Lakes should settle this element of the claim  as follows by paying the claim in 
line with the calculations provided  to our service and set out in our investigators view.  I 
understand this means the value  of this part of the claim will be £4,940.
Due to the delay in settling this claim,  8% simple interest per year should  also be added to 
the above settlement figure.  This should be paid from 16 August 2018, (the date Great  
Lakes received Mr Ks medical report) to the date of settlement. + 
Mr F has said he believes interest  should be applied from the date Great  Lakes received    
Mr Ts medical  report. I disagree with this suggestion as although Mr T did comment  on     
Mr Fs legs,  Mr K was the first medical  expert to conclude there was a loss of use.
Great Lakes has also highlighted the delay in finalising  this matter, however, Im satisfied   
Mr F has been  genuinely unwell and unable  to progress his complaint until recently. I 
therefore think it is appropriate to continue applying interest until the date the claim is settled.
hospitalisation benefit 
The policy says: 
Hospitalisation Benefit 
Hospitalisation means an Insured Person being  admitted  to hospital as an inpatient 
on the recommendation of a Medical  Practitioner.
Ref: DRN75659685Hospital is also defined  in the policy:
Hospital means any institution  which fully meets every one of the following 
criteria:
a) Maintains permanent  and full time facilities for the care of overnight 
resident patients  and
b) Has diagnostic and therapeutic facilities for surgical and medical  diagnosis  
and treatment and care of injured  and sick persons by or under the 
supervision of staff of Medical Practitioners and
c) Continuously provides  24 hours  a day nursing service supervised by State 
Registered Nurses or nurses with equivalent  qualifications and
d) Is not other than incidentally a mental institution  or a place for rest or a 
place for the aged, for drug addicts or for alcoholics.
I can see that Mr F was admitted to hospital on 19 July 2012 and was transferred to a
rehabilitation clinic on 25 August  2012.  The rehabilitation clinic doesnt meet the definition of 
hospital under the policy, as it doesnt have diagnostic  and therapeutic facilities on site. Mr F 
has provided evidence  to show, the clinic has access to this treatment externally, and that it 
is a member of a local NHS hospital  trust. But this isnt sufficient grounds to conclude  the 
clinic meets the above definition of a hospital. This means, Im satisfied there  is a period of 
37 days, where it is appropriate to consider if hospitalisation benefit should  be paid. 
Based on the above medical  reports, Im satisfied  Mr F was admitted to hospital due to his 
fall. However, to conclude  that this claim should be paid in full, Id also need  to be satisfied 
that, on the balance of probabilities, Mr Fs stay wasnt due to any other injury or medical  
condition. Based on the available medical evidence, I dont think this was the case. I say this 
because, the hospital  admission notes suggest  Mr Fs stay was impacted by his cardiac  
issues and overall  state  of health.  And the rest of the medical evidence, highlights  Mr Fs 
degenerative medical condition,  which  seem  most  likely  to have extended  his recovery time.  
Unfortunately, neither  medical report defines how much of Mr Fs hospital stay can be 
attributed solely to his accident. I appreciate Mr Fs frustration in relation to this but I need to 
reach an opinion,  based on the medical evidence that is available. 
I think a 50% proportional  settlement is the fairest way to resolve this issue.  In reaching  this 
decision, I accept  that Mr F attended hospital  due to the injuries he sustained due to his fall. 
However, this settlement  also reflects the fact he suffered from pre-existing conditions which 
may have  extended  his stay.
I think Great Lakes should settle this element of the claim  as follows by paying the claim in 
line with the calculations provided  to our service and set out in our investigators view.  I 
understand this means the value  of this part of the claim will be £7,039.50
8% simple  interest per year should  also be added  to the above payment from                      
29 October 2013 (the date Great Lakes received the claim) to the date of settlement. + 
Ref: DRN75659686my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle  the claim as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
 If Great Lakes consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much  its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7565968