K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited took too long to repair his car
after he claimed under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ms car was stolen in October 2018, but recovered damaged, and Admiral agreed to
repair it. He gave it to Admirals authorised repairers (Admirals garage) that same month.
His car required various replacement parts. One of these was a dash which  Admirals
garage had to ordered from the manufacturer. This part took a very long time to arrive.
Admirals garage didnt receive it until about July 2019.
The garage then repaired his car and gave him it back on 3 September  2019. So he was
without his car for about  eleven months.
Mr M felt that Admiral  gave  him very poor service.  He said that they didnt  keep him
informed, and he kept having  to chase them and the garage. They kept extending the date
for the part to be available,  saying  that it was a manufacturer  issue and so was out of their
control. He said that theyd offered  him a courtesy  car at first, but he declined  that as he
could use his wifes car then. But when things changed in April 2019 and he no longer had
access to that car. Admiral refused to give him a courtesy car.
Admiral accepted that their communication and elements  of their service had not been good.
Theyd paid Mr M compensation of £85 for that before he came to this service. But they felt
that the delay  with the part wasnt their fault as they couldnt control that. Admiral  said that
they couldnt give him a courtesy car in April as the repairs hadnt started then because of
the unavailable part. They said that when they did start the repairs, they offered him a
courtesy car, but he declined it.
The investigator didnt  think Admiral had acted fairly and recommended  that Mr Ms
complaint should  be upheld.  She thought they should pay Mr M another  £250 compensation
for his inconvenience  and compensate him for loss of use of his car as hed been without a
courtesy car. Admiral  didnt agree with all the recommendations and so Mr Ms case  was 
passed to me to decide. 
On 29 July 2020 I issued my provisional  decision saying that I intended to uphold  it. Since  
then both parties have  responded,  and Admiral have sent more  evidence. I deal with that 
below.   
Ref: DRN79795242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
car repair
Mr Ms car went  into Admirals garage in October  2018. Admirals garage ordered the dash
replacement part from the manufacturer, but it was severely delayed. They told Mr M that it
was expected in February, but in February they said that it would be April.  By this time Mr M
had been without his car for about six months  and was very dissatisfied. And its clear from
Admirals records that Mr M had to chase  Admiral and the garage repeatedly for information
and updates.
In about April 2019 Admiral suggested alternatives. They said that they could fit a recycled
dash, a non-manufacturer part, on Mr Ms car. Then  they could  either fit the manufacturer
part when it arrived, or instead give Mr M a cash payment to the value of the manufacturer
part and fitting.
But Mr M was worried  that having a recycled part would affect his cars warranty and would
impact the personal  contract purchase (PCP) finance he had for his car, as he was due to
return it in October 2019. He was concerned that he would make  a loss on his car then if it
had a recycled part. Admiral said that his car having a recycled part should only affect the
warranty for that part and not the whole  car, but Mr M said hed received different information
from the manufacturer. I thought that Mr M was understandably concerned  about  these
matters and that it wasnt unreasonable of him to decline the recycled  part.
Unfortunately, thinking that Mr M had agreed to the recycled part, the garage cancelled  the
original manufacturer  part order and so they had to re-order it, which caused further delay.
Mr M felt that his car could not in practice be repaired, so he wanted  Admiral to declare  the
car a total loss. But although Admiral considered this, they wouldnt do that because  his car
was in principle  repairable for much less than its market value.
Mr M also suggested that Admiral fit the recycled part and give him the cash  value for the
manufacturer part and the cost of fitting it, and he would then work something  out with the
PCP provider. But Admiral wouldnt do that either. This was because they said they wouldnt
be able to get a refund  on the part theyd ordered from the manufacturer. They felt theyd
done enough to resolve the impasse  as theyd made him the above  two reasonable offers
and hed declined  them.
While the manufacturer  part was still unavailable,  the investigator recommended that
Admiral pay Mr M £250 compensation in addition to the £85 theyd already paid him in
compensation for the calls hed had to make and for his inconvenience.
The manufacturer part did become available in about July 2019, but the garage  then realised
that other  parts were  needed and had to order  them. Admirals  garage repaired Mr Ms car
and gave him it back on 3 September 2019. He says he did have to return it to the garage
for further  fixes, but I cant deal with those  here as they havent  been considered by Admiral.
Ref: DRN79795243Admiral had already  paid Mr M a total of £85 compensation for phone  call costs and for his
distress and inconvenience. Mr M says that he suffered stress because of the situation,  and I
saw that it must have  been very inconvenient  to be without  his car for about  eleven
months. This was particularly as he still had to pay for its finance, insurance and road tax,
and he didnt get the courtesy car he was entitled to.
Clearly it wasnt  Admirals  fault that the part was unavailable for so long. However,  it was
their fault that they cancelled it and had to re-order it two weeks later. They couldnt say what
the extra delay  due to that was. But I was satisfied it would have caused some  unnecessary
delay. I thought that it wasnt  unreasonable of Mr M, for the reasons he gave,  to decline the
recycled part. And I thought that Admiral  should have done more, and earlier,  to work with Mr 
M and provide  alternative solutions  to the problem of the unavailable part. But instead  Admiral 
said that it wasnt in their control. I thought  that was unreasonable.  Mr
M clearly  spent a great  deal of time and effort on the matter  and I thought that this could have 
been avoided  if Admiral had been more proactive about it.
The investigator thought that Admiral should pay Mr M compensation of £250 for this in
addition to the previous £85, and I agreed  with this. I thought that more adequately reflected 
the stress  Mr M suffered through Admirals  inaction.
courtesy car
Mr M said Admiral  didnt  provide him with a courtesy car. His car was with Admirals garage
from October 2018. Admiral did offer him one in about February, but he declined it because
he wanted one like for like with his own car. But his policy did not entitle him to that, only to
a class A courtesy car. Mr M said he didnt  take up the courtesy car as he could borrow  his
wifes car then.
But when he still didnt  have  his car back in April, about six months after it had gone to the
garage, his situation changed, and he needed a courtesy car. But Admiral wouldnt give him
one. They said he was only due one while his car was being repaired. But in April the repairs
hadnt started,  and Admiral didnt know when  the part would become available. They felt it
was unreasonable to expect them to provide a courtesy car for an open-ended  period.
The investigator said it was fine for Admiral  not to provide Mr M with a courtesy car from
February, as hed said he didnt want one then.  But they thought that Admiral should have
provided a courtesy  car for Mr M from 17 April as his car was then in Admirals  garage with the 
expectation of repair. 
Mr Ms policy says that the approved repairer will give you a courtesy car while your vehicle Is 
being repaired in our body shop. I thought that Admiral were  taking an unreasonable and 
inconsistent interpretation  of that policy term. The car repairs hadnt started when Admiral 
offered him the courtesy car in February, either. And arguably  Mr M mitigated the loss to 
Admiral by not needing a courtesy  car for those first months when he had no car. To all intents 
and purposes in April Mr Ms car was in Admirals garage for repair,  so he was entitled to a 
courtesy car then, and I didnt think it was relevant that Admiral  didnt  know  when the part 
would be available.
Ref: DRN79795244Admiral said that once their garage got the part, and started the repairs, they again
offered Mr M a courtesy car while  they were repairing  his car, but he declined  it again. Mr M
said he didnt remember them offering this. And as Admiral said they did this in June, although 
the manufacturer part didnt arrive  until July, and they hadnt  shown  us any evidence  of that 
offer, I was not persuaded  that they did. And so, I thought that Admiral should  pay Mr M £10 a 
day for loss of use of his car, from 17 April to 3 September  2019 inclusive.
Mr M was satisfied  with the decision. Admiral agreed the compensation but disputed  the loss 
of use period. They sent us recordings of two calls between Admiral and the garage which 
took place on 10 July 2019.  Mr Ms car was then back  in the garage for repair.  The garage 
had fitted the main  part but were waiting  for an aerial wire theyd  realised theyd needed too. 
In the calls Admiral asked the garage  to offer Mr M a courtesy car. The garage agreed to do 
so and called Admiral back. They  said that theyd phoned Mr M and offered him a courtesy  car 
but he declined  it and said that he was letting the ombudsman deal with his claim now.  The 
investigator asked Mr M about this, but he again  said he couldnt remember having had such a 
conversation.
On that evidence Im persuaded  that Admiral did offer Mr M a courtesy car on 10 July and that 
Mr M declined it. An insured person has a duty to minimise their loss, and so it wouldnt be fair 
to award Mr M any loss of use of a car for any time when he could have had one but refused 
it. And so I think the correct loss of use period is 17 April to 10 July inclusive, which  is 85 days  
at £10 a day. This makes  the loss of use award  £850. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this
complaint and I require  Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to do the following:
 pay Mr M £10 per day from 17 April 2019 until 10 July 2019  inclusive for the loss of
use of his car. This totals £850.
.
 pay Mr M £250  in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience their actions caused
him. This is in addition  to any compensation they have  already paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr M 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much they have taken off and give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7979524