K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  Elliot  Fletcher Limited. She is unhappy  about  the time it took to 
arrange a pension transfer so that she could access tax free cash from her occupational 
pension scheme. When  the transfer took place  the transfer value had decreased by around 
£7,000 from an earlier valuation.
background
Miss S wanted to access  tax free cash from her occupational pension scheme. She met with 
an adviser from Elliot Fletcher on 4 October  2016. It was recorded  that she wished to access 
tax free cash of around £35,000 from her pension which had a value of around £277,000. 
The existing scheme didnt allow early access to tax free cash and so it was necessary for 
Miss S to transfer into a new pension scheme  so that she could take cash as she wished.
Elliot Fletcher advised  on and completed the transfer. Miss S received tax free cash  on 18 
November 2016.
The pension transfer value appears to have fluctuated during the advice  process. The actual 
transfer value  was around £275,000.  But it had been as high as £282,000 in late October.
Miss S says there was unacceptable  delay and this caused her loss due to the lower transfer 
value.
Elliot Fletcher didnt  uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service where it was 
considered by an investigator. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She set out 
the timeline of events  and didnt consider that Elliot  Fletcher had caused any undue delay.
Miss S disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigator. I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Im not satisfied that Elliot Fletcher caused  any undue delay in the transfer. The transfer 
value wasnt guaranteed and was subject to market  fluctuation.
The relevant  timeline  is as follows:
4 October 2016  Miss S meets  with Elliot Fletcher.  Shes advised  how she can obtain tax 
free cash. This will involve  a pension transfer.  Its suggested that she wait for that months 
payroll to be completed, so that her pension contributions  are made, before she is recorded 
as a leaver. Payroll is typically between 13 and 15 of the month.
14 October  Miss S is recorded as a leaver  by the existing pension  scheme  provider.
18 October  Elliot Fletcher approach the pension  provider for transfer information.
25 October  transfer information received.
Ref: DRN7492683226 October  Elliot Fletcher have a further  meeting with Miss S. The relevant transfer 
paperwork is completed and then posted  to Elliot Fletchers office  and received on 28 
October (there was a one day postal  delay).
31 October  transfer paperwork  submitted to the new pension provider.
2 November  new provider confirms receipt and says that the new pension  will be set up in 
three working days. 
7 November  the new pension account  is activated.
11 November  the new provider receives  the funds from the existing provider.
18 November  tax free cash paid.
I can understand that Miss S may be unhappy  that the transfer value was lower than she 
may have  expected. When Elliot Fletcher wrote to her on 26 November to confirm  its advice 
the letter referred to a higher value,  £282,000,  and not the actual transfer value of £275,000. 
Thats unfortunate and could have  been  avoided. But the transfer value could only be 
secured when the transfer took place. The fund value would fluctuate.  Ive not seen anything 
that suggests Miss S was misled about that.
Ive set out the timeline of events. Elliot Fletcher didnt have absolute control over the 
process. It relied on two other businesses and their internal processes. Im satisfied  that 
Elliot Fletcher acted  with reasonable speed  in its handling  of matters. I dont think  that it 
caused any significant delays. Miss S has said that the advisers availability was an issue, 
but the transfer paperwork  wasnt available  until 25 October and a meeting with the adviser 
took place on 26 October. So there  was no delay there.
And once  the papers were  submitted  to the new provider on 31 October the matter was 
largely in its hands.
In effect, Elliot Fletcher started  the transfer process on 18 October and it was completed, 
with Miss S receiving her tax free cash one month later, on 18 November. I dont think that 
was a prolonged process given the steps that had to be taken and the number of parties 
involved. 
So I dont  uphold this complaint. The transfer  value was never guaranteed and Elliot Fletcher  
didnt cause any unnecessary delay in my view.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7492683