K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains ReAssure Limited  (ReAssure) failed  to protect his personal pension  plan as 
he approached  retirement. As a result, his pension  was around £4,000  less than he was 
expecting.
background
Mr S held a personal  pension plan with ReAssure and got in touch with them to request 
information regarding  his retirement options.
ReAssure wrote to Mr S on 3 October 2018 with some information and on that day, his 
pension was valued at £87,672.90. They wrote again on 9 October 2018 with some  standard 
information and the value  of his pension plan was given as £87,057.00.
Following receipt of the information Mr S decided to transfer his plan to another  provider. 
ReAssure wrote on 25 October 2018 and the value  of the pension on this date was 
£84,129.38.
On 2 November,  the pension  transfer  was completed with a final pension  value of 
£83,347.48.
Mr S was very unhappy  with this final pension value  and wrote to ReAssure to complain. In 
its final response of 26 November 2018, ReAssure  didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said 
Mr S held a unit linked investment, which was directly linked to the performance of the 
underlying investments based upon the investment strategy Mr S selected. It went  on to say 
the value of Mr Ss plan could go down as well as up. The policy value is only guaranteed on 
receipt of a transfer  request  and all the necessary documents.  On the date Mr Ss transfer 
request was completed the value of £83,347.48 was correct.
Mr S remained dissatisfied and asked this service  to look into this for him. 
Our investigator reviewed  all the information.  He understood Mr S was very disappointed 
with the fall in value  of his personal  pension plan but he concluded ReAssure didnt have a 
responsibility to guarantee the fund value other  than when they received the transfer 
request. As they had done this, he thought ReAssure  had acted fairly and reasonably and 
didnt ask them to do anything further.
Mr S disagreed. He feels very strongly that ReAssure had a duty to protect the value  of his 
fund as he approached retirement  and in failing to do so he has suffered a loss and so he 
asked for this review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  Ive looked at all the 
information provided by both parties  afresh. Having done so, Im in agreement with our 
investigators view and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN75504862ReAssure are the fund administrators for Mr Ss personal pension  plan,  which was invested  
in an International  Managed Standard Pension  Accumulator  fund. Mr S had a target 
retirement date of 17 December 2018.
The annual statements have all been  sent to Mr S. They contain important information 
including but not limited  to the fund value at the time, estimates of how much the policy could  
be worth  at five-year intervals, how ReAssure have  calculated the fund value and other  
information such as how to access advice and information about the pension policy. There is 
also an options section,  which  details the choices  available  to Mr S. The statements make  it 
clear Mr S should pay particular attention to this section before making any decisions.
Within the Options section of the annual statements there are website links such  as how to 
access Pension Wise, the free government guidance service,  how to shop around  for the 
best deal and to access financial advice. It goes  on to provide access  to a checklist in the 
countdown to retirement,  how to calculate pension income and information on managing  the 
risks to your pension pot.
The Managing Risks to your Pension Pot section  is particularly important. It said:
If a fall in the markets  happens close to your intended retirement date, this could suddenly 
alter the value of your pension policy, impacting your retirement income  or ability  to retire  at 
the time you planned.  Lifestyling can help reduce the impact of this type of market fall by 
gradually moving your investment into low risk funds  as you approach  retirement.
It goes on to give the website: www.reassure.co.uk/managingtherisks.
I can see from the information provided Mr Ss personal pension  plan was a unit-linked  
policy. This means his premiums were combined  with other investors  and invested  in areas 
such as stocks, shares and other investments linked to the investment strategy  Mr S had 
chosen. The fund as a whole is then divided  equally into units. Each  day the unit price is 
calculated and is dependent on the value of the underlying investments. So, the unit price 
can go up and down  and isnt guaranteed. This is clearly detailed  on all the annual  
statements and correspondence  sent from ReAssure to Mr S.
ReAssure is the fund administrator and isnt able to provide any financial advice to Mr S. Its 
role is to provide  Mr S with accurate information  about the fund and the options available to 
Mr S. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that ReAssure have met their obligations to Mr S. The 
documentation also directs Mr S to seek financial advice if he is unsure of what actions to 
take and provides information on managing the risk as retirement approaches.
I appreciate this is a very disappointing matter  for Mr S. To have seen a fund value reduce 
just prior to retirement is unfortunate but it is also an inherent  risk with the type of pension 
policy he held with ReAssure. Mr S could have sought financial advice or looked to mitigate 
the risks to his pension  plan as he approached retirement but the onus is on him to take the 
necessary action and not ReAssure.
I have looked  at practice across the industry regarding any warning or notification that could 
be given in these  circumstances.  ReAssure has said it wouldnt  give any advance warning 
where the difference in the fund value when  Mr S wanted to take it and the final value was 
10% or less. In Mr Ss case, the final value was around 5% of the fund value and so I dont 
think it was unreasonable for ReAssure to proceed with Mr Ss instruction. Indeed, any delay 
could have seen  the find value fall further.
Ref: DRN75504863The only time Reassure  had to guarantee the value  of the fund was when  it received  Mr Ss 
transfer request.  It confirmed this in the letter of 25 October. It said the fund value wasnt  
guaranteed and it would recalculate it on the day all the necessary documents were 
received. Im satisfied  ReAssure did this and have confirmed the bid price  has been  checked 
again following  Mr Ss complaint  and found  to be correct.
Im satisfied ReAssure have met their obligations to Mr S and have been fair and reasonable 
in their approach  and so Im not going  to ask them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7550486