K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt refund disputed transactions  made  
from his account. Hes also unhappy with the service  Nationwide  provided. 
background 
Mr E says that fraudulent transactions totalling £1,544.11 were  made  from his Nationwide  
current account on the 23 May 2018. 
Mr Es not been clear  about the last transaction he carried out with his debit card  in 
particular being  unsure  whether he carried out two x £5 transactions  prior to the disputed 
transactions. But hes confident he didnt carry out any of the transactions  after this. In the 
early hours of the 23 May 2018 Mr E thinks that after being approached by two third parties 
he must have dropped  his wallet  and his card fell out. 
Nationwide refunded Mr E £500, and gave him £25 in compensation, but on further  
investigation didnt  refund the remaining amount. They thought that Mr E had authorised the 
transactions because:
-Theres no explanation for how Mr Es PIN was compromised
-It didnt fit a usual  fraudsters pattern of behaviour
As Mr E didnt agree  he referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Es complaint and said that he thought Nationwide  
hadnt demonstrated that Mr E consented  to the transactions. He said he thought it was 
likely Mr E carried out both £5 transactions prior to the disputed  ones, and this was how his 
PIN was obtained. He also thought  Mr E had evidenced his account was credible by 
contacting both third party  retailers and the police. 
Nationwide didnt agree  with our investigators  opinion. They  said:
-Mr E agreed that his last genuine  spend  was on the 18 May 2018
-Mr Es recollection of what happened was vague on the day of the transactions,  so 
how has this improved  since  then?
-Mr Es contact  of third parties and the police doesnt indicate his version  of events  
was reliable
-The transactions arent indicative  of fraud
-The evidence supplied from the third party businesses doesnt  show Mr E didnt carry 
out the transactions 
-And even if this was the case its possible Mr E gave his card and PIN to a third party 
and authorised the transactions
-They believe Mr E or someone he authorised carried  out the transactions
As Nationwide  didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why below.  
Ref: DRN70726192Generally Nationwide can hold Mr E liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not he made or authorised  them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Es genuine  card  including  the long 
card number  and PIN were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for Nationwide to hold him liable. 
So I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests its more likely than not Mr E 
consented to the transactions  being  made.  
From what  Ive seen I dont think Nationwide have got sufficient evidence to conclude Mr E 
consented to the transactions.  I say this because:
The majority  of the disputed transactions were made using Mr Es genuine card and 
PIN. Mr Es been inconsistent in detailing which transactions he consented to on the 
23 May 2018  but hes been clear  that he didnt authorise the larger withdrawals for 
£100, £180 and £200. I dont  think its surprising  when  considering the time of the 
transactions and Mr Es alcohol consumption   that he was unsure which  withdrawals 
he carried out. 
I think its more likely than not Mr E carried out the two £5 transactions  at 2:12am and 
2:14am. Im satisfied  in doing  so there were two opportunities for a third party 
fraudster to overlook  his PIN. Mr E has mentioned he was with a group  of friends and 
some members  of the public were also present around that time. 
At around the same time Mr Es explained  he thinks  he dropped  his wallet  and his 
card fell out at this point. I agree that this is a plausible version of events, but as Mr E 
didnt notice his card was missing  at this time, its also possible Mr Es card was 
obtained via other means once a fraudster  observed his PIN. Either way Im satisfied 
its plausible Mr Es card and PIN were obtained by a third party
Ive looked  at the fraudulent activity   and I think it does follow the pattern of a 
fraudster. Firstly a balance  enquiry was carried  out soon after the second £5 
withdrawal was made. After Mr Es daily cash withdrawal limit was reached further 
cash transactions were  carried  out at two foreign exchange bureaus.  All of this 
occurred within eight  hours of the card being  obtained   and this is taking into 
account the card was obtained in the early hours of the morning.
No funds were left in Mr Es account  
After Mr Es card was cancelled  an attempt  was made to use it over 56 miles away  
from Mr Es home address  and a high number of card not present  transactions 
were also attempted.  
Mr E made contact with the police and a number of the third party retailers. One, Ill 
call M, met Mr E in person and confirmed   via letter  that he hadnt carried out the 
transaction. I agree with Nationwide it doesnt  prove  that Mr Es version of events is 
reliable  but Im satisfied  it strongly  indicates  hes making efforts  to support his 
account. And Id find it surprising   if Mr E wasnt being honest in his version   that 
hed risk contacting  the police. 
In contacting another retailer our investigator  was provided with evidence to show the 
address given to purchase £408.33  worth  of foreign currency didnt match  any known  
to Mr E.
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont think Nationwide have demonstrated Mr E 
consented to the transactions.  Therefore I find Nationwide liable, and Ill be asking them  to 
refund the disputed  transactions.  
Ref: DRN70726193Ive thought about the inconvenience  caused  to Mr E. Mr Es a student and needed to 
borrow money from his mother for day to day expenses. In recognition  of the inconvenience  
caused  in not refunding  Mr Es transactions sooner  Ill be asking  Nationwide to pay Mr E 
£200 compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is I direct Nationwide Building  Society to:
Refund Mr E £1,044.11 of disputed transactions
Pay Mr E £200 in recognition of the inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7072619