K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Startline Motor  
Finance Limited  (Startline) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
I provided my provisional decision  in April 2020. I explained why I was planning  to uphold 
Mr As complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr A took receipt of a used car in March 2018. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Startline.  At the point of supply  the car was about six years  old and had 
already covered a little less than 46,000  miles.
Mr A has had some problems with the car. Hes explained that it kept stalling and was 
regularly returned  to the dealership. Receipts hes provided suggest the following history:
Date Issue Action
25 March 2018 Recovery service say battery 
has failed. Suggest turning off ECO 
stop/start until battery  is 
replaced.
5 April 2018 Battery is replaced.
11 April 2018 Car is stalling. Dealership 
notes its not happening 
when ECO  stop/start is 
turned off.Electrical checks are 
carried out and a new on 
board electrical system 
battery is fitted.
14 May 2018 car returned to dealership. 
Problem unclear  from 
receipts. Mr A says 
dealership had the car for a 
month dealing  with the 
electrical problem.Electrical checks and a 
switch is replaced but 
resolution is unclear.
3 October 2018 ECO start/stop fuse box 
is replaced. Mr A says 
car was not returned to 
him until the end of 
January 2019.
Mr A complained to Startline in September 2018. He said the car had been  nothing but 
trouble. But Startline didnt support his claim as they said insufficient  evidence had been 
provided that there was a fault with the car when he took receipt  of it.
Ref: DRN74457292Mr A therefore referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his 
opinion. He thought there  was sufficient information  to suggest there had been a problem 
with the ECO start/stop  system from the beginning and that the dealership had been unable  
to resolve the issue. He noted that the car was now performing well and he decided  the 
fairest solution would be for Startline to refund the money Mr A had spent on the car and that 
hed evidenced  in the receipts he provided. But he didnt think the battery replacement  had 
rectified the fault so he wasnt persuaded that cost should be refunded and he also noted a 
receipt had been  provided for wiper  blade replacement which he thought was normal wear 
and tear and should not be refunded by Startline  either. He thought  it was clear Mr A had 
been inconvenienced by matters and he suggested Startline therefore pay him £100 in 
compensation.
Startline didnt accept  the investigators  opinion. They said the ECO start/stop problem was 
only mentioned  twice in the cars  breakdown history. Once by the recovery  service,  and 
again when the fuse for it was replaced  seven months later. They  didnt think this was 
sufficient evidence that the faults  could be said to be present when the car was supplied and 
they therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view.  I think there  is evidence  here that Mr A 
should be allowed  to reject the car. I know that will disappoint Startline so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr A. The car here 
was around six years  old and had travelled  about  46,000 (although the initial  documentation 
suggests it was a little under 50,000 miles I think the MOT data suggests it was lower  than 
this). So I think a reasonable person would expect it to be exhibiting  some signs of wear and 
tear. 
Ref: DRN74457293But Startlines responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear. 
Mr A first experienced problems with his car only a couple of weeks  after hed taken receipt  
of it. The recovery service  noted that the battery had failed and they suggested  turning off 
the ECO  start/stop system until the battery could be replaced. I think,  given the very limited 
amount of time the car had been  in Mr As possession, that this fault was most  probably 
present or developing at the point  the car was supplied to him. It wasnt a problem that I 
think a reasonable  person would expect  in a car of this age and mileage. Mr As car appears 
to have been stalling when an important  economy  aid, the start/stop system, was in 
operation.
Relevant legislation gives the business one chance  to repair  a fault with a car that is present 
when it was supplied.  It does not give a business  one chance  to repair  each separate fault 
that may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory  quality when supplied  refers to the 
vehicle as a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the 
more likely it is the vehicle  isnt of satisfactory  quality.
Mr A had to return the car to the dealership in April and May 2018. He says this was to have 
a reoccurrence of the stalling problem rectified and Startline dispute this. I dont  think it 
matters if the problem was related to the ECO start/stop  problem. The car had still only been 
in Mr As possession for a few months and I think its more likely any electrical  problems that 
were proving  troublesome  at that time, were present or developing on supply.
So in those  circumstances  I dont think this car has proven to be of satisfactory quality and I 
therefore think Mr A should be allowed to reject  it and that Startline should terminate his 
finance agreement  with them. 
Mr A has provided evidence that the car was with the dealership on at least  three occasions 
and that it was subject to breakdown recover as well. He suggests  that the car was at the 
dealership between 3 October and 30 January being repaired. Hes also had to produce 
evidence to support  his claim. I think that suggests hes experienced quite a bit of distress  
and inconvenience  over this issue and, in the circumstances,  Startline should provide  more 
than the £100 compensation our investigator  suggested. I think £200 would be more  
reasonable.
Mr A has been able to drive the car when its not been at the dealership. He suggests the car 
is now working fine so Ive considered how much time hes been off the road. It seems the 
car was at the dealership  for four months  between October 2018 and the end of January 
2019. It would not be fair for Mr A to be paying  finance instalments during that time. So 
Startline should  refund any payments  he made during that four month period.
Hes also experienced  some lack of use between March 2018 and October 2018 and has not 
been able to use the start/stop economy  system to its full extent for fear the car would stall. 
So hes experienced some impaired use and, in the circumstances, I think Startline should 
refund a further finance instalment in respect  of this.
Mr A tells us theres been no reoccurrence  of the fault since he got the car back  in 
January 2019  so I think its fair to suggest hes had full use of the car from that point and no 
further instalments  should be refunded.
Ref: DRN74457294Its usual in these  circumstances for this service to ask for the deposit to be repaid. I cant 
see that a deposit was paid by Mr A here so Im not expecting to ask Startline to refund it 
Mr A has provided receipts  for the work  hes had completed on the car. I agree with the 
investigator that theres no proof  the battery  needed replacing as the fault persisted after its 
replacement. I dont  think the wiper blade replacement  can be considered  to be a cost 
Startline should  refund either. But Im persuaded the other costs were most  likely related to 
the issues Mr A was experiencing with the car stalling.  So I think  it would be fair for Startline 
to refund these charges. For clarity I think the receipts that need  refunding are; 11 April 2018  
for £482.76 and 14 May 2018 for £944.70.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I am expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell 
STARTLINE MOTOR  FINANCE LIMITED to:
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
refund  five monthly finance instalments in respect of lack of use of the car and add 
8% simple interest  per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  the cost of repairs carried out on 11 April and 14 May 2018 that have been 
evidenced by Mr A;
pay Mr A £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience these issues  
have caused him
Mr A accepted my provisional decision but Startline  didnt. They said that:
the car had been working well for some time now and it therefore wasnt in anyones  
interest to allow Mr A to reject  it;
I was wrong to suggest  the start/stop problem  was present at the point of supply as 
there was no evidence of that;
Mr A hadnt reported the problem to them until after six months and the relevant 
legislation therefore put the onus on him to demonstrate the faults were  there  at the 
inception of the deal. He hadnt done  that;
It was now clear  that the initial mileage recorded  for the car had been  overstated  by 
the dealership  and this had been to Mr As benefit in the arrangement.
Startline therefore  asked me to reconsider my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree with Startline  that its not in Mr As interest to allow  rejection  of the car. Thats  
clearly what Mr A wants and hes accepted my provisional decision on his complaint.
The start/stop issue was identified  in the first few days. The general  position defined by the 
relevant legislation, that Startline refer to, is that the consumer must show there is a fault 
with the car. But if they can do this and the fault demonstrates to us that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality in the first six months after purchase the onus is on the supplier to show 
that the goods did actually  conform to the contract  when supplied.  As Ive explained, Im 
persuaded Mr A has demonstrated there  was a fault with the car within  six months and Ive 
Ref: DRN74457295not been provided with sufficient evidence by Startline that the fault wasnt present from the 
beginning. The subsequent problems that Mr A experienced  in April and May suggested 
repairs hadnt been successful and its for that reason I still think  the car should  be rejected.
I would agree with Startline that it appears that the dealership made a mistake  when 
recording the initial mileage but I dont think thats Mr As fault or that he should be 
disadvantaged because of it. He accepted the finance on the terms provided.
Overall, Ive not therefore seen any further evidence  that has led me to amend my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and to tell Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
refund  five monthly finance instalments in respect of lack of use of the car and add 
8% simple interest  per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  the cost of repairs carried out on 11 April and 14 May 2018 that have been 
evidenced by Mr A;
pay Mr A £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience these issues  
have caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7445729