K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Phoenix Life Limited  has delayed  paying a claim he made  on his 
income protection policy. 
background
Mr J had a heart attack and surgery in October 2017. After the deferred period of 52 weeks  
had expired he made a claim on his income protection policy.  
Phoenix Life asked  for information from Mr Js employer  and medical information. When his 
employer responded they said Mr J would  be leaving their employment in January 2019.  
Mr J raised a complaint  about delays in Phoenix  Life accepting the claim. 
The claim was then referred to Phoenix Lifes legal team in January  2019  but they didnt 
respond until May 2019. In their final response  letter Phoenix Life accepted this was an 
unreasonable delay and offered £300  compensation for the trouble and upset caused  to 
Mr J. They  then asked Mr J and his former employer for more information  about the 
circumstances of the claim, including information about his final pay slip and any hours 
worked during  the deferred period. 
Mr J made  a complaint  to our service as he was unhappy that his claim still hadnt been 
accepted. He pointed out that hed had the policy for around 18 years and wasnt  able to 
benefit from the financial protection it was supposed  to offer him. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She accepted that there had been an 
unreasonable delay between January and May and increased the compensation to a total of 
£500. She also said that Phoenix life ought  to prioritise the claim and consider adding  
interest if the claim needed to be backdated. Phoenix Life said they would pay the increased 
compensation but that they were only responsible for the delay  between  January and May 
2019, as since  then theyd been waiting for more  information from Mr J and his former 
employer. They provided copies of letters theyd sent asking for this information. Mr J said, in 
summary, Phoenix Life had all the information they needed. 
A different investigator reviewed the complaint and issued a further opinion. She agreed 
£500 compensation was fair and said since the referral to the legal team  had been  
completed the claim had been delayed by outstanding information that Phoenix Life had 
requested from Mr J and his former employer. She set out the information that they were still 
waiting for. Mr J didnt add any further  comments at this stage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Phoenix Life has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably.  Im 
upholding Mr Js complaint because in part because: 
Ref: DRN79443152I think that Phoenix Life has progressed the claim at a reasonable pace, apart from 
the period during which the case was referred to their legal team. This caused a 
delay of a few months which  I agree  was unacceptable. I appreciate it was a worrying 
time for Mr J but I think the £500 compensation offered adequately reflects the 
trouble and upset  caused 
Since that time Phoenix Life has progressed the claim as Id expect. Theyve  written  
to Mr J and his former employer asking  for more information and chased it at regular  
intervals
I think it is reasonable they ask for this information as Im satisfied  it is relevant  to 
whether the claim  is accepted. For example, it is important for Phoenix Life to 
understand if Mr J worked during the deferred  period,  how many hours he worked  
and how much time he took as sick leave. Mr J has also mentioned other  forms of 
employment hes undertaken since he was unwell so its not unreasonable for 
Phoenix Life to probe  this in more detail.  Our investigator has also explained  to Mr J 
what information is outstanding. And Phoenix Life has made it clear the claim wont  
be accepted without it. So, I dont think that they have caused  any of the more  recent  
delays in accepting  the claim and I dont  think they need to do anything further to put 
things right
I appreciate that Mr J feels hes provided enough information. But hes not provided 
the information Phoenix Life has asked  for. And, as it is relevant to whether the claim 
is accepted, hell need to provide it for the claim to be properly considered.  
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint against  Phoenix  Life Limited to the extent that Ive outlined 
above and Im directing Phoenix  Life Limited  to put things right by paying a total of £500 
compensation, which includes the £300  they offered in their final response letter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7944315