K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) advised her that a powerflush 
was needed to fix a problem with her boiler, when in fact a powerflush didnt solve  the 
problem. 
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in respect of this complaint. Neither  party has 
provided me with any further information  that might persuade me that it would be fair to 
reconsider my original  decision.
background
Mrs J had a problem with the boiler  in a tenanted property she owned. Shes  provided  a 
chronology of the background  to her complaint, which I think it would be helpful to 
summarize here.
On 12 October an engineer visited to undertake the annual boiler check  at the property so 
Mrs J could get the required annual Gas Safety  Certificate. Mrs J says that the property had 
been empty  for some months prior to that while it was being redecorated. The heating had 
been kept on low during  this period and the boiler  appeared to be operating normally. 
According to Mrs Js new tenant, at this visit the engineer identified  a leak and said hed be 
back with the parts  to fix it the next day.
BGs records show an engineers visited on 13 October (a Friday), and that the leak was 
fixed. He noted that a flue clamp was required for stability.
Mrs J says that that same evening  her tenant contacted  her to say that the heating/boiler 
wasnt working. Shed contacted the engineer  and hed told her what  to do to increase the 
pressure, but it didnt stay up and the flame had now gone out. Mrs J contacted BG. It said it 
would send someone round between 12pm and 6pm on 14 October. The tenant then told 
Mrs J that the engineer  had been in touch and said hed return on 16 October and in the 
meantime she should continue to top up the pressure.
The engineer in fact returned on 14 October. He identified that the boiler wasnt  operating  
and was in fact dangerous. He left it out of action  and scheduled  a return visit with a 
colleague for 17 October when he said theyd need  to take the boiler off the wall. He said 
that ideally  it needed to be powerflushed but that as that was expensive  theyd do what  they 
could to try to get it working. 
BGs records show that the engineer  returned  on 17 October and fitted some parts.
He returned the following day to fit further parts, and again  recommended  a powerflush.
On 21 October Mrs Js tenant was in touch with her again to say that the boiler was leaking 
again and that she had to keep topping up the pressure. She expressed concern that there 
was water dripping and it was above  the electrical switchboard.
Further messages  to Mrs J from her tenant followed over the next two weeks,  which  said 
that the boiler was working  fine, but she had to keep topping  up the system as there  was still 
a leak.  
Ref: DRN70035582The next engineers visit was on 6 November when an engineer came to undertake  the 
powerflush that had been recommended. He noticed  a small leak under the boiler and a 
return visit was arranged  for this to be fixed.
An engineer  came the following day to fix the leak, but as he didnt have the necessary 
parts, he had to come  back again  two days later, on 9 November.
On (Sunday) 12 November, Mrs Js tenant  contacted her again to report that the boiler was 
making very loud banging noises. She reported  that there was still a problem with the 
pressure, although  now there was no leak. BG said it would send an engineer on (Friday) 17 
November. The engineer who came on that date noticed that there was an external pipe 
leak. He came back the next day and replaced a pressure relief valve  (PRV). Mrs Js tenant 
says this engineer  queried why a powerflush  had been done as this wouldnt have dealt with 
the leak. She says that since the PRV was replaced  the pressure has remained high.
Mrs J did some research  on-line as to the symptoms of a heating system in need of a 
powerflush. She says her system  showed none  of these.
Mrs J says that shes paid for a powerflush that wasnt necessary as it didnt  deal with the 
problem that only occurred after shed had her annual safety check, and which was solved 
by the replacement of the PRV.
BG says that it contacted the engineer whod visited the property on 14 October and who 
had recommended the powerflush. It says hed noted that there  was heavy sludge present 
and it was blocking a manifold. The powerflush  removed the sludge, and the leak that then 
followed was as a result of the high pressure flushing. Small leaks after a powerflush are not 
uncommon. The powerflush was offered to Mrs J for £616.50  which represented a discount 
of 10% to reflect the poor service it acknowledged shed received and the inconvenience her 
tenant had suffered up to that point.  It maintains  that its diagnosis  was correct  and that the 
faults were caused  by sludge.
Mrs J says that the word  sludge was never  mentioned  to her or to her tenant by any of the 
many engineers who had visited, and it doesnt appear in any of the visit records  that the 
engineers gave to her tenant after each visit. She says that the powerflush  wasnt necessary 
and didnt resolve the problem, which appeared to be with the PRV. As soon as this was 
replaced, the problems  stopped. Mrs J wants the return of the £616.50 she paid for a 
powerflush and some  compensation for the fact that it took five engineers  and eight visits 
before the problem  was identified and resolved.
As BG was maintaining  that a powerflush  had been necessary because of the sludge  its 
engineer had found, and so wasnt willing to offer her any reimbursement, Mrs J brought her 
complaint to this service.  Our investigator  considered that because sludge  had been  
identified in Mrs Js system, BG wasnt acting  unreasonably in maintaining  that a powerflush  
had been necessary even  though  it might not have  been the primary cause of the boiler  
problem.
Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators  opinion, so shes asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman, so the matters been  referred  to me.
Ref: DRN70035583my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mrs Js complaint and Ill 
explain why.
BG made six or seven visits to try to identify the source of the problem with Mrs Js boiler. It 
eventually recommended that she had her system powerflushed.  Mrs J followed this advice 
and paid £616.50 for a powerflush,  but it didnt solve the problem. She says her tenant  was 
told by an engineer that the system didnt need a powerflush and that very little sludge came 
out. After three further visits, it appears  that the problem was fixed by the replacement  of a  
pressure relief valve. 
Mrs J maintains that BGs  engineer had said that a powerflush wasnt necessary.  BG says it 
spoke to the relevant engineer and that he denies saying this, and said that the system was 
full of sludge and did need  to be powerflushed. BG has said that its diagnosis  was correct,  
that the faults were caused by sludge.
Im not persuaded by this. Theres  a dispute  on the facts as to the presence  of sludge. BG 
says there  was sludge present that was blocking a manifold.  Mrs J, with information  from her 
tenant, says that the sludge  that actually came out of the system was very little. Im prepared 
to accept that there was some sludge  in the system. But that doesnt mean that it was the 
cause of the problem that Mrs J, or more accurately her tenant, had.
I think its clear  that initially there  was a leak in the system, first identified  on 12 October. Mrs 
Js tenant had to keep topping it up in order to get hot water. BGs engineers  fitted a number 
of O rings to try to deal with the leak. The leak continued after the powerflush  on 6 
November, so the powerflush was of no assistance in dealing  with the leak. The leak was 
fixed on 9 November. The system pressure continued to fall.  It was only after another 
engineer identified a leak in an outside pipe and replaced a PRV that the falling pressure 
stopped and the system then operated as normal.
My view is that while a powerflush might  have been  useful in averting further  problems, it 
doesnt appear to have  contributed anything  to the repair  of the fault with Mrs Js boiler. I 
think that the problem was fixed initially by the fixing of leaks and then by the replacement of 
the PRV. So I dont think the powerflush was necessary  at that time.
However, as Mrs J has benefitted from having what  sludge there was removed from her 
system, which will ensure that sludge  wont cause problems for some time,  I dont  think it 
would be reasonable to require BG to refund  to Mrs J the full £616.50 she paid for her 
powerflush. I think it would be reasonable to require BG to reimburse her £400 of this 
amount.
I also think that it was unreasonable for BG to have  taken eight visits over more  than five 
weeks for it to have got to the bottom  of what was causing the problem with Mrs Js boiler.  A 
leak was identified on 12 October and wasnt finally identified and fixed  until 9 November. It 
then took a further nine days to identify why the pressure was still dropping,  and that the 
problem was with the PRV. The fact that for a period the boiler  was declared unsafe, and 
then repeat visits, often  because BGs  engineers didnt have the parts  they needed, which  
included such basics as O rings, would  have caused inconvenience to Mrs J and her 
tenant. I think this justifies  an additional award  of compensation, and I think £150  
compensation would be appropriate in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN70035584my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mrs J £400  towards  the 
cost of her powerflush.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay interest  on this sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year 
from the date Mrs J paid for her powerflush..
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from the interest  payable,  it should tell Mrs J how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give Mrs J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require British  Gas Insurance  Limited  to pay Mrs J compensation of £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7003558