K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) has incorrectly recorded her 
name on two payment  arrangements.  She also complains about  how Halifaxs complaint 
handler spoke  to her. 
background
Ms R has a bank account with Halifax and has arrangements in place to make  regular 
payments to two other banks. But the names  on the arrangements arent spelt correctly.  
Ms R complained to Halifax  about  the errors. Halifax called Ms R to discuss the complaint 
During the call Ms R said she wanted  to talk with a male  complaint handler but was told the 
case wouldnt be passed to anyone else. The complaint handler said shed write to Ms R 
with the outcome of her complaint if she wasnt able to discuss  it over the phone.  
Ms R spoke with the complaint handler again  and asked to be transferred to someone  else. 
But the complaint handler said that wasnt possible and that shed write to Ms R instead.
Halifax issued its complaint response  on 6 September 2018 and paid Ms R £10 of call costs  
and £75 for the errors in the way her name  is set out. Halifax  also explained  that to amend  
the instructions  Ms R would have to visit her branch and complete security questions. But 
Halifax didnt agree Ms R had been  given poor service when she spoke with the complaint 
handler about whatd happened. 
Ms R went  on to refer her complaint to this service and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Halifax  had dealt  with Ms Rs complaint  fairly  so didnt ask it to take any 
further action. As Ms R remains unhappy her complaints been passed  to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Looking at whats  happened, there  are 
two issues. The first is the incorrect spelling of Ms Rs name  on the payment arrangements.  
The second  is the service Ms R received  when  discussing  whats happened  with Halifax.  Ill 
look at each in turn. 
All parties  agree that two payment arrangements  Halifax has in place have Ms Rs name  
spelt incorrectly. Halifax has advised  Ms R what she needs to do to resolve  the error and 
paid £85. 
I appreciate theres  a degree of inconvenience  for Ms R here as she needs to complete a 
security check  in branch  to amend the way her name is shown. But Halifax  has paid her £85 
and I think that level of compensation fairly covers the initial error and Ms Rs inconvenience 
at having to visit a branch to resolve  the matter. 
Ive also considered that the impact here is reasonably minor. I say this because the 
incorrectly spelt name isnt reported  externally and will only appear on Ms Rs statements. I 
appreciate why the information should  be correct  and why its important to Ms R that her 
information is accurate.  But the situation can be resolved reasonably quickly  and Im 
satisfied what Halifax has paid is fair. 
Ref: DRN79153502Ive listened to Ms Rs calls with Halifax. Towards the beginning of her first call she says she 
wont speak with a female  and will only discuss the complaint  with a male. The complaint 
handler checked with her manager whether that was possible and was advised the case 
wouldnt be passed to anyone else. I appreciate Ms R wanted  to talk to a man but Halifax  is 
free to decide  how it investigates complaints and who looks at them. As Halifax  wasnt willing 
to pass Ms Rs complaint  to someone  else her options were  limited. 
The complaint handler said Ms Rs options  were to either discuss the case with her or 
receive a written response. And I think thats reasonable. As Ive said above, its up to 
Halifax to decide  how it investigates a complaint and who the case  handler will be. Halifax  is 
required to respond  to complaints, giving its final response, and if its not able to do that over 
the phone  Im satisfied  writing is a reasonable alternative. 
Having listened  to the calls, I can hear that the conversations did become  heated  at times. 
But I didnt find that the complaint handler  was rude or unprofessional when discussing how 
the case would be looked at. 
I agree  that Halifax has incorrectly  noted  Ms Rs name on two payment instructions but its 
paid a fair level of compensation  and explained what she needs to do to correct the problem. 
Ive not found  Halifax  provided poor service  when discussing Ms Rs complaint with her over 
the phone. Taking everything  Ms R and Halifax have told me into account, Im satisfied the 
complaints been  dealt with fairly. So Im not telling Halifax to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £85 Bank of Scotland plc has 
already paid. Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7915350