K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Mortgage  Works (UK) Plc (TMW) didnt treat him fairly when he 
was in financial difficulties. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr W had a buy-to-let mortgage  with TMW. He was injured and got into financial difficulties. 
TMW appointed  a Law of Property  Act (LPA)  receiver to take control of the property and 
deal with it. Mr W felt that TMW hadnt  done  enough  to support him or treat him fairly. Mr W 
also said that the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) had sent TMW documents  to 
enable it to help him, but TMW said these hadnt  arrived. Mr W thought hed be able to clear 
the arrears in due course and didnt think he should be charged the costs of the receiver as 
he hadnt received  the letters sent about the arrears  and action to be taken. He also said 
TMW had promised to remove the receivers once the DWP had been in contact.
Mr W complained  to TMW.  It placed the receivership on pause, and asked Mr W to provide 
details of his income  and spending. Mr W did so, but explained that his position would 
change radically  once he was better. TMW said Mr W hadnt responded to its attempts to 
contact him about  the arrears, which was why the receivers had been appointed. It said the 
DWP hadnt  been  in contact as Mr W had expected and pointed out that as it was his 
application, the onus was on him to progress it. TMW denied  that its staff promised to end 
the receivership  as soon as the DWP had been in contact. It did however say it would review  
the position if Mr W satisfied it that the arrears would be paid in full.
Mr W complained  to us and paid the arrears; the receivers  were removed. He also raised 
new complaints against  TMW  about  the fees charged and whether it offered to capitalise the 
arrears. The adjudicators view was that TMW  wasnt  at fault. The mortgage  shouldve been 
paid with the rental income, so Mr Ws injury wasnt relevant. TMW wrote  to Mr W about  the 
arrears and the likely consequences, and placed the receivership on hold to give him time to 
deal with the matter  the adjudicator thought that was fair. The adjudicator  pointed  out that 
it was unlikely that the DWP could help with a commercial loan.
Mr W disagreed.  He said that he didnt receive  TMWs letters  and he felt he hadnt been 
treated fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not able to deal with the new 
complaint about  the fees charged or the alleged offer to capitalise the arrears as these 
points were brought to this service  recently  and before  TMW  had been given a chance  to 
investigate them.
Lenders are required to treat customers in financial difficulties fairly.  But its also relevant to 
note that buy-to-let mortgages are generally  commercial loans, so the expectations  upon  
lenders can be lesser than when  dealing with residential mortgages.  Mr W is clearly running 
a business as his emails  to this service shows  in some emails,  he uses  a business name.
Ref: DRN77843812I appreciate that Mr W has suffered an injury, but that doesnt  mean  TMW has acted unfairly 
by expecting him to make  contact (as he asked for letters to be sent to an address at which  
he says he doesnt  live) or in expecting the arrears  to be paid.  Mr W promised to pay the 
mortgage on time each  month when he took out the mortgage and accepted its terms and 
conditions. The responsibility was Mr Ws to ensure  he collected letters from the address he 
told TMW to send them. I note that there is a history of arrears and previous appointments of 
receivers in respect of this mortgage.
The mortgage is a commercial loan, and in reality lenders expect such  mortgages to be 
repaid through the rent paid by the tenants. Mr W told TMW  that the tenants had been 
paying rent, so the issue of his injury is a side-issue. That said,  theres no evidence  that 
there were tenants in place lawfully as no tenancy agreement  was been provided  by Mr W, 
despite requests  by the receivers. The evidence about the alleged tenants  is in my view 
unpersuasive, particularly as the tenants didnt provide any tenancy agreement or been 
present when the receivers visited  the property. Its relevant  that in November  the property 
was found to be empty by the receivers and was a building site.
Mr W said that the DWP would help him clear the arrears. But the DWP doesnt help with 
buy-to-let mortgages  as Mr W shouldnt  be living in the property. And in any event, TMW  
didnt receive any documents from DWP when Mr W says that they were  sent.  And until the 
DWP approves an application,  it isnt unfair  for a lender to refuse to act on the assumption 
that it will help. I think its unlikely that TMW wouldve offered to remove receivers  if the DWP 
contacted it; first, there  was no guarantee that the DWP would help, and secondly it would 
undermine the reason  why the receivers were  appointed  to get paid in full as quickly  as 
possible.  
TMW agreed to pause the receivership and considered the details it had about Mr Ws 
income and spending which were provided  after the appointment of the LPA receivers. It 
didnt have this information earlier, which wasnt TMWs fault. Ultimately, Mr W did manage 
to pay the arrears, but only by borrowing from family  and friends.  That isnt a repayment plan 
upon which a lender  could  rely. The information Mr W gave TMW was inconsistent, 
particularly in respect of the alleged tenants. Overall, having looked  at all the evidence 
available to me, Im satisfied that TMW acted fairly  in relation to actions taken in respect of 
the arrears and the appointment  of the receivers.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
1 March 2019. 
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784381