K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank Plc should have done more to help her recover the money she 
lost when she fell victim to a banking payment scam.
Background
On 1 February 2019 Mrs B authorised three  online payments in quick  succession, totalling 
£2,500 on the instruction of who she believed was someone from HM Revenue  & Customs 
(HMRC). She contacted  HSBC at 09:50 - so around 17 minutes  after making the last of the 
payments - to confirm shed been the victim of a scam. She spoke to HSBC  again at 10:26 
and spoke to its fraud  team.
HSBC emailed the beneficiary bank at 12:29  later that day to see if any funds could  be 
recovered. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank  confirmed  that no funds could be recovered.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs B complained  to us. Our adjudicator  didnt think HSBC 
should reasonably have  recognised the circumstances surrounding the payments. And they 
thought HSBC took the necessary steps  once  it became aware of the fraud, so they didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed to me to review  
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
Ref: DRN70164102identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mrs B when she transferred £2,500, or whether it should have done  more than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mrs B lost this money. But, having  looked at the circumstances, I 
do think HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably in allowing  the money to leave Mrs Bs account. 
And I dont  think the steps it took to try and recover funds from the beneficiary  bank account 
caused her any loss. So, I dont believe it needs to reimburse Mrs B for the money she lost. 
Ill explain  why.
Mrs Bs accepted that she authorised  the transfers herself.  Because of this, HSBC had an 
obligation to follow Mrs Bs instruction. But there  are some situations  in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfers.
Ive thought about this carefully.  From  what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about 
the payments  in terms of either their value or the payment  type that ought to have  alerted  
HSBC to the scam. I can see from HSBCs  records of Mrs Bs account  activity that shed 
used online banking before to make  payments, some  of which  were  for hundreds of pounds. 
Overall, I dont  think there was cause  for HSBCs systems to flag the scam payments as 
suspicious.
Mrs B quickly contacted HSBC when  she became  aware shed  been  the victim of a scam  
within minutes of authorising the final payment. HSBC didnt handle the call well and gave 
her the impression there was nothing it could do. It was only during her second  call, at 10:26,  
that HSBC provided  more  appropriate  advice. That said,  it still didnt contact the beneficiary 
bank for just over two hours after that point.
Although I think HSBC could have handled things better when Mrs B contacted it to let it 
what had happened, I dont think this caused her any loss. I say that because  Ive reviewed 
the transaction history of the beneficiary bank  account and I can see that, unfortunately, 
Ref: DRN70164103some of the funds had already been  withdrawn before  HSBC  was first made aware  of the 
scam. The remainder was withdrawn within around  20 minutes of that time. I dont find that 
surprising given how quickly scammers typically withdraw funds.  
I appreciate that, during the second  call to HSBC, Mrs B feels  she was led to believe HSBC  
was likely to be able to recover the money  and that this might take some time. And that she 
says, confusingly, HSBC  wrote to her the same  day to tell her its attempts had been 
unsuccessful. However,  Ive reviewed the letter HSBC sent and I dont think it confirmed the 
money couldnt be recovered. Instead, it explained it had contacted  the beneficiary bank and 
that it was open  for her to get in touch  with it to raise a dispute. But I dont think that means  
HSBC didnt carry out a proper investigation. 
This experience was clearly hugely upsetting for Mrs B. But, in the circumstances, I cant  
fairly say that HSBC  should have done more when she authorised  the payments. HSBC  isnt 
responsible for Mrs B having fallen victim  to a scam and I cant  see that the steps it took 
once it had notified of the scam caused  her to lose out. So, in my view it wouldnt be fair to 
ask HSBC to compensate  Mrs B for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7016410