K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that a van he is financing  through Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) 
has had faults  from the outset and is of unsatisfactory quality.
background 
Mr S took receipt of a used van on 8 September 2017. The van was first registered in 2013 
and had completed almost 79,500 miles at the point of supply. Mr S financed the deal 
through a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.
But within the first week  of ownership  Mr S took the van back to the dealership and the turbo 
was replaced. A vehicle  health check was completed at the time and it was identified that the 
sump was leaking. Mr S says he wasnt told about this but was informed the fault with the 
vehicle had been fixed. 
He drove  the vehicle  until January 2018  when he called Close  Brothers to explain  he was 
experiencing similar issues.  An investigation  revealed there was no oil in the van; the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) needed regenerating and there were several oil leaks. So the 
dealership explained that this voided Mr Ss warranty as he hadnt looked  after the vehicle 
properly. They said hed have  to pay to get the van fixed.
Mr S complained to Close Brothers. He said if hed been told about the sump leak the van 
wouldnt have run dry of oil and the subsequent issues wouldnt have happened. 
But Close Brothers  disagreed. In their final response they said a sump  leak had been 
identified during the September  repair and as they hadnt had that repaired they were 
prepared to contribute towards the repairs that were now required. But they didnt think they 
should pay all the cost.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  didnt think Close  Brothers 
had done enough. She couldnt see any reason why Mr S wouldnt have rejected the van if 
hed been told about the sump leak and she was persuaded that he hadnt been. She 
thought Close Brothers  had a chance  to fix the leak in September but as their representative, 
the dealership,  hadnt done so she thought it was likely that this fault had contributed  to the 
subsequent problems and it was therefore  reasonable  to suggest Close Brothers  allow Mr S 
to terminate his finance  deal and hand the vehicle back. She said it was clear Mr S hadnt 
had full use of the vehicle  as the mileage hed completed had been limited. So she thought it 
was reasonable  for Close Brothers to repay  the instalments Mr S had made to his account 
whilst the vehicle was off the road between February and June 2018. She also identified  that 
Mr S had paid out for repairs to the van and she didnt think these repairs would have been 
necessary if hed been told of the sump  problem and been given an opportunity  to reject the 
van earlier. So she suggested Close Brothers should refund those charges to Mr S if he 
provided the invoices for the work. She calculated the repair  costs  were £2,515. She also 
suggested that Close Brothers  pay Mr S an additional £250  to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset  hed experienced.
But Close Brothers  didnt  agree and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN79385422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his van under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the 
van should have  been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Close  Brothers 
are responsible and Id ask them to do something to put things right.
In their final response Close Brothers  accepted  that a sump  leak had been identified  when 
the turbo was replaced in September. I dont  think Mr S was told about this because:
he would  have  been able to invoke  his short term right to reject  the vehicle at that 
point. And if hed been told there  was a sump leak, and had noted  there  was also a 
turbo problem, I think he would have been  likely  to do so
I can see that from their case notes that hed been told by Close Brothers  about  his 
short term rights  to reject the van before it went in for repair. So it would have been at 
the forefront of his mind
there appears to be no reason why Mr S would ignore the leak. As its clear any 
repair or rejection  of the van wouldnt have been  at his cost
I dont think a reasonable person would  think a van with a leaking sump;  even one that had 
covered almost 79,500 miles, was in a satisfactory condition. So I think Mr S should  have  
been informed  and given the option to reject  the van or have it repaired. But Mr S wasnt  told 
about the issue and the van was therefore  released  to him in an unsatisfactory condition.
I think its reasonable to suggest the subsequent lack of oil in the vehicle is most likely to be 
because of this leak and the faults the van developed  were  likely to be related to Close 
Brothers failure to have  the vehicle repaired properly in September. So I think it would now 
be fair to allow Mr S to reject the van because  it was of unsatisfactory  quality when supplied 
and also because a repair wasnt completed  and should have been.
And because Mr S has been  provided with a vehicle that had a fault,  most likely  to have 
been there from the point of supply, and that wasnt rectified, hes had to pay for repairs he 
shouldnt have had to pay for. So its fair Close Brothers refund these costs  if Mr S provides 
copies of the receipts for the work  hes had done.  
Im persuaded that Mr S has only had partial use of the vehicle.  His mileage is significantly 
lower than average and I think its likely the vehicle wasnt driven much between  February  
and June 2018 when Mr S was experiencing issues with it. I therefore agree with the 
adjudicators suggestion  that instalments should  be refunded for this period and I also agree 
Ref: DRN79385423that a payment of £250 seems reasonable to compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell Close Brothers  Limited to:
allow Mr S to end the agreement with no further  liability
collect the car at no cost to Mr S
refund  Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the time it was 
paid to the date of settlement
reimburse repair costs, calculated as £2,515,  on provision  of receipts  and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the time they were  paid to the date of settlement
refund  four monthly instalments to cover  the period from February to June 2018 
when Mr S didnt have full use of the vehicle and add 8% simple  interest per annum 
from the time they were paid to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  that may have  been written  to Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to this issue
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7938542