K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly gave her a loan which she 
couldnt afford to pay back. 
background 
Miss W took out an instalment loan with Uncle Buck in October 2018.
She says she was borrowing to repay existing loans and her credit file shows  her use of 
short term loans. Miss W says she cant  now repay the loan and there is a balance 
outstanding and she is in repayment plans with other creditors.
 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it that information  in the credit search 
done by Uncle Buck was at odds with the information she had declared and Uncle Buck  
shouldve seen that she was struggling to manage her money and so further borrowing 
wasnt sustainable.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion and in particular said that it didnt 
agree that there were  short term loans evident  on the credit file and it wasnt responsible for 
Miss Ws inaccurate declaration which was fraudulent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
W could repay the loans  in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN71193272There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. Uncle Buck  has told us about the 
checks it did before lending to Miss W. It asked  Miss W for details of her income and normal 
expenditure. And Uncle Buck carried  out checks on Miss Ws credit  file. 
Miss W asked to borrow £400. It was repayable in 4 instalments the highest of which  was 
£170.19. Miss W said her income was £1100 and her outgoings were £640. These figures 
included food, utilities, rent and transport  as well as other regular monthly  outgoings and 
credit commitments.  The credit check undertaken  by Uncle  Buck showed significant 
repayments due on short term accounts.  The picture  revealed by the credit file was one of 
an increasing debt and signs that Miss W was reliant on short  term credit  and not 
responsibly managing  her money.
For example the credit  report  showed three recently  opened short term accounts together  
with a regular  credit payment account.  The repayments for these accounts totaled  just over 
£600. The credit  search  undertaken by Uncle Buck  showed that Miss W had opened  10 
credit accounts in the last 6 months.
Because the amount  that Miss W owed on her monthly commitments was significantly at 
odds with what she had told Uncle Buck  I think it was reasonable and proportionate for 
further checks to be carried out. If these  checks  had been carried out, Uncle Buck  would 
have seen that Miss W wasnt responsibly  managing  her money  and she couldnt afford the 
repayment. This meant that further  borrowing was unsustainable.
Although the loan looked affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  on the basis  of 
the figures declared by Miss W I think it was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to have seen that 
Miss W wasnt responsibly managing  her money from its own credit  search  and so any 
further borrowing  was unsustainable. And so I think Uncle Buck  shouldve  realised  that it 
wasnt reasonable to lend any money to Miss W.
Miss W was unable  to repay  what she had borrowed  which further supports the fact that the 
loan was unaffordable from the outset  and wasnt because of a change of circumstances.  
Ref: DRN71193273So Im upholding  Miss Ws complaint.  It appears that there  is an outstanding balance  but I 
have expressed the redress  on the basis that Miss W may have paid something towards the 
outstanding balance since this complaint came to me. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, fees and 
charges on any loans without an outstanding balance, not including  anything  it has 
already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Miss W which  
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss W as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss W having made overpayments 
then these should be refunded with 8% simple  interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Uncle Buck should  then refund the amounts calculated in "A" 
and "B" and move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss W. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Uncle Buck should try to agree  an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss W.
E.Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Miss Ws credit file.
*
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7119327