K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc took too long to respond to his request 
for a bank reference  letter and closed his bank account without  notice. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 16 October 2019 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what should happen to resolve  the complaint. I invited both parties to send any additional  
comments or evidence they wished to make. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr F confirmed he accepted my provisional  decision. NatWest  said it didnt understand the 
rationale for the increase  to £300 but it had nothing further to add.
My rationale for increasing the compensation award was explained in my provisional 
decision. I said I found that NatWest  closed Mr Fs account prematurely and, as a result, Im 
satisfied he was caused embarrassment  and inconvenience.  And because  I also agree with 
our investigator in that the problems around  the bank reference directly  led to the account  
closure issue, overall, I think further compensation is due.
In light of this and the other reasons I gave in my provisional and because  neither party  has 
provided me with any new information or arguments  to consider, I see no reason to change  
the findings or outcome  I set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr F £300 compensation (less £50 
if this has already been paid to him) in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73911242Provisional decision of 16 October 2019
complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc took too long to respond to his request for a bank 
reference letter and closed his bank account without notice. 
background
Mr F asked NatWest to provide a bank reference to his new landlord. There  was a delay in providing  
the reference and so Mr F complained.
NatWest looked into things and thought the reference request  may not have been scanned into its 
systems properly  and this most likely caused the delay. So, to put things right NatWest emailed the 
reference to the landlord and apologised to Mr F for the delay. It also paid Mr F £50 compensation  
and refunded the charge for the reference.
While NatWest was looking into the above delays, Mr F tried to use his debit card in a supermarket 
but couldnt. He subsequently found  his account had been closed and that NatWest was sending him 
a cheque for the remaining  funds in the account. Mr F didnt know why this had happened  and so he 
complained again. But here, NatWest said it hadnt done anything  wrong. It said it closed Mr Fs 
account in line with his written instructions. 
Mr F didnt accept this and so he complained to us. One of our investigators looked into what  had 
happened. While she didnt think NatWest  had done anything  wrong in closing Mr Fs account,  she 
did think the problems  with the delay in providing  the bank  reference led to the account closure and 
that this couldve been avoided. So, she asked NatWest  to pay Mr F a further £100 compensation.
NatWest agreed to our investigators recommendation, but Mr F said  in summary that:
hed told NatWest that hed close the account, so the onus  was on him to do this formally not for 
NatWest to take the bull by the horns and close the account  on his behalf without notifying  him first;
issuing a cheque and closing the account left him without  access to any money for 10 days;
this all added  to the stress he was already suffering at what was already a difficult time;
he was awarded  £100  compensation in a separate complaint which related to what he feels was 
a less serious situation.  He feels £1,000 would be more appropriate  in this case.  
As Mr F didnt agree with the investigator, his complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
bank reference
Although I can see that Mr Fs letter requesting a bank reference  was dated July 2018, it seems Mr F 
has acknowledged that he didnt send it at that time. NatWests  records show that the request wasnt  
received until early November 2018. So, I have  taken this into account. 
That said, NatWest hasnt disputed that when it received the request there was a delay  at its end. 
NatWest says the reference  request may not have been scanned into its system  correctly and this is 
why it asked  Mr F for further information. And I think  this is most likely  to have been the problem. But I 
also accept that this wouldve been confusing to Mr F who thought hed sent all the information 
needed and this caused him to write  again in mid-November to explain the urgency behind the need 
for the reference. 
Ref: DRN73911243I can see that the bank reference was eventually  emailed  to Mr Fs new landlord on 3 December 2018 
(around three  weeks after receiving the original request). And that NatWest  offered Mr F £50 
compensation in recognition  of the distress and inconvenience  he suffered and refunded the fee for 
the reference. Overall,  while I accept that NatWest did cause a delay in issuing  the bank reference,  
I think  it put things right in a reasonable timeframe after itd noticed the error with the scanning.  
So, I think £50 compensation and refunding  the fee for the reference is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
account closure
Given the circumstances Mr F was in and that he needed the bank reference  urgently I can 
understand his frustration in experiencing a delay in receiving what hed asked for. I can also 
understand why this might  have prompted Mr F to initially say he was considering moving banks.  And 
then in later correspondence  to say, I shall now close my account with NatWest. 
So, what Ive had to think about here is whether NatWest acted  reasonably in closing Mr Fs account 
in this context  and I dont think  it did. Ill explain why.
In his correspondence Mr F made  it clear to NatWest  why the bank reference was needed urgently  
he was being evicted from his current property having experienced problems with his landlord. And 
Mr Fs correspondence  about closing the account was sent before the bank reference issue  had been  
resolved. So, in this context, I think NatWest should have considered whether Mr Fs comments were 
made from frustration rather than him giving a direct instruction to act on his behalf.  And I think it 
wouldve been  reasonable  for NatWest to have contacted Mr F to check that he actually wanted to 
close his account  before it did so. And had it done so, I think Mr F wouldve  told it not to close the 
account. So, Ive thought carefully about the impact NatWests actions had on Mr F. 
It seems Mr F became aware  of a problem when he tried to use his debit card on 13 December 2018  
but couldnt. And I accept this situation wouldve been embarrassing and inconvenient to Mr F. 
I can also see that he told our investigator that when the account was closed, he had no access  to his 
funds, and this continued  for more  than ten days. But looking  the account  history  I cant agree that 
this was the case. 
NatWests records indicate that Mr F visited a branch on 14 December  2018 where he was able to 
withdraw £100  it was also at this point the account closure was reversed. I appreciate  that it may 
have taken a while before  a new debit card had been received by     Mr F  so he may be referring to 
this when  he says it took ten days. But Ive not seen  anything  to suggest  that Mr F couldnt have 
withdrawn more cash in branch had he needed to do so while he awaited  the new card.
That said, as I found that NatWest closed Mr Fs account prematurely and, as a result, Im satisfied he 
was caused embarrassment and inconvenience. And because  I also agree with our investigator in 
that the problems around the bank reference directly led to the account  closure  issue,  overall, I think 
further compensation is due. Our investigator recommended a further £100 (in addition to the £50 for 
the delay in issuing the reference) i.e. £150 in total. But I think a total award of £300  more adequately 
reflects the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr F in the circumstances here. 
I note Mr F has referred to the level of compensation he received in another  complaint. But I cant 
comment on the merits of that complaint.  But I have considered this complaint based on its individual 
circumstances. Having  done  so, I think a total compensation award of £300 is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN73911244my provisional  decision
Ill consider any further comments received by 30 October 2019. But unless anything changes my 
mind, for the reasons  given I intend to uphold  this complaint. And I intend to direct  National 
Westminster Bank  Plc to pay Mr F £300 (less £50 if this has already  been paid to him) for the distress  
and inconvenience caused.
 
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7391124