K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) turned down two claims he made
on his home  emergency  policy.
Mr Ks son has brought this complaint on his behalf.
background
In August  2018,  Mr K got in touch with IPA to let it know that his roof was leaking.  IPA
sent out one of its contractors to investigate the cause of the damage. The contractor
said the ridge tiles needed repointing and there  was no mortar to the lead flashing  on the
chimney. So IPA decided the claim  was down to wear and tear, which isnt covered by
Mr Ks policy. It turned  down Mr Ks claim.
Mr K asked IPAs contractor to repair the roof as a private arrangement. He says he
paid the contractor £300 to get the work  done. He wasnt happy with IPAs decision to
turn down his claim, so he made a complaint. IPA maintained its decision. It thought the
roof damage wasnt covered by the policy. And it said it didnt cover the costs  of private
work.
In mid-October 2018, Mr Ks roof suffered  another leak. He called IPA, which attempted
to get the same contractor out to look at the roof. The contractor refused to go out to Mr
Ks property  and IPA didnt look to arrange  for anyone else to attend. Its call handler
told Mr K to get the work  done and to send  in an invoice  afterwards  for consideration.
Mr K got the roof privately repaired for £600. He sent IPA a copy of the invoice. He was
unhappy because  he felt the previous contractor had misdiagnosed the problem. He felt
the first repairs had been unnecessary.
IPA apologised  for not sending out another engineer to look into why the roof was
leaking. It offered  Mr K £50 compensation to make  up for this. It also offered Mr K £200
as a contribution  towards the cost of the repairs  Mr K had had done.  It limited what it
paid Mr K because it said the roof repairs had been  a permanent repair. Permanent
repairs werent covered  by Mr Ks policy.
Mr K was still unhappy with IPAs  position and his son asked us to look into his
complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld.  He thought given the
report from the original contractor, itd been  fair for IPA to turn down Mr Ks claim. He
thought the damage was most likely  down  to wear and tear. He felt Mr K hadnt provided
enough evidence  to show the second leak wasnt related to the first leak. The policy
doesnt cover faults that recur due to the original repairs not being carried  out properly
unless they were done by IPA. Because the repairs to the first leak had been carried out
by private arrangement,  the investigator  didnt think the costs of getting  the second  leak
fixed were covered. Overall, he felt IPAs offer of £200 towards  the repairs  and £50
compensation were  fair.
Mr Ks son disagreed. In summary, he said he felt the original report from the first
contractor had been poor and inconclusive. He mentioned IPA hadnt  complied with a
Data Subject Access  hed made. He didnt agree that £50 of IPAs offer was for
compensation. He felt Mr K had been  told over the phone  that the repair costs for the
Ref: DRN72036682second leak would be covered. He felt the claim shouldve been settled in line with the
policy limit.
Mr Ks son also provided photos  of the part of the roof that was repaired following the
second claim  which  was in a different  area to the part of the roof that was repaired in
August 2018.  He sent us a copy of the roofers invoice, which said the damage was
down to storm.
The investigator sent copies of the photos to IPA, together with the invoice from the
roofer. He pointed out that the repairs  the roofer had carried out in October 2018 were in
a different area of the roof and put the cause of the damage down to storm. He asked
IPA for its comments.
IPA offered  to increase  its contribution towards the second repairs to 50% of the costs
on the invoice.  But it said the invoice included the costs of laying down cement,  which
tied in with its contractors  wear and tear diagnosis.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  IPAs offer to
pay Mr K 50% of the costs for the second  repair, together with the £50 compensation its
already paid him is fair and reasonable. Ill explain  why.
Mr Ks son has provided us with detailed  submissions. While Ive summarised what
hes said, Id like to reassure him that Ive read everything in detail and focused on
what I think are the key issues.
I also need to make it clear that I have no power  to compel IPA to provide information
requested under a Data Subject Access Request.  If Mr Ks son feels  IPA hasnt
complied with its duties  under the Freedom  of Information Act, he should complain to the
Information Commissioners Office.
Mr Ks made two claims  on the policy, so Ill deal with each separately.  But both claims
were dealt with as storm damage under  the home emergency section of the policy.
Storm is defined in Mr Ks policy. The policy says:
We consider storm to be strong winds of 41 knots/47 mph or more, sometimes
accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Heavy or persistent rain alone does not constitute
storm unless the downpour is torrential (25mm/1 inch of rain or more over a one hour
period, or a proportionate  amount over a shorter time.)
Ive carefully checked the home  emergency section of the policy and it seems  this is the
only part that would apply in the circumstances of Mr Ks claim.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three  questions  that we
need to ask:
Ref: DRN72036683Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date of the claim?
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
The first claim
Ive looked carefully  at the local weather records for around the time of Mr Ks claim in
August 2018.  I cant see any evidence of high winds of more  than 47 mph, or of
exceptionally strong rainfall or hail. This means I dont think  there were any prevailing
storm conditions.
IPA sent out a contractor to investigate though to try and identify  a cause of damage.
This is in line with its policy terms. The contractor thought the damage was down to wear
and tear. He found: the ridge tiles to the main roof need re-pointing.  There is no mortar
to the lead flashing to the chimney.
The contractor didnt  find evidence  of damage consistent with storm. The issues he
identified were of normal  wear and tear over time.  I think  the photos the contractor took
support this being the cause of the damage. Mr K also hasnt provided any expert
evidence to counter  the findings of the first contractor. So overall, I think  the damage
was most likely caused by wear  and tear.
I understand Mr K feels the private  repairs he paid for were unnecessary.  But it seems  to
me that he did need to get this work  done to make sure he maintained  his roof in a good
condition and to try to prevent future claims.
The second  claim
It isnt clear whether  the area of roof which was repaired in October 2018 is the same
area of roof that was repaired in August 2018.  Ive seen the photo  Mr K provided and it
doesnt look like the repaired  area is part of the main roof. It looks  like this area was on
the wing part of the roof. The tiles look different and the area of repair  isnt by the
chimney stack or the ridge  tiles. So I dont think IPA shouldve immediately assumed
the second leak was a recurrence of the first leak.
On this basis, I also dont  think it was fair for IPA to link the findings  of the first
contractor with the works the roofer did in October 2018. While cement was needed to
complete both works, I dont think IPA has shown the two areas of roof damage needed
exactly the same type of repairs.
But, Ive carefully looked  at the local weather records for around  the time of the second
claim. The highest wind speed recorded was 35mph  which  is some  way short of IPAs
threshold. In my view, these wind speeds  arent  high enough to constitute  storm conditions. 
And there wasnt exceptionally  heavy rain recorded either. So it seems  to me
that there  werent  prevailing storm conditions at the time of the leak.
But with that said,  Mr Ks roofer did find the likely  cause of damage was storm. And IPA
has accepted  that some  of the damage  was down to storm. It maintains that wear and
tear was also a factor, especially given the roofer needed to re-bed the tiles in concrete.
Ref: DRN72036684So, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think its fair for IPA to deal with this claim
as its proposed.
IPA has now offered to pay 50% of the costs of the second invoice  a total of £300, in
addition to the £50 compensation it offered. I think this is a fair offer and its open  to Mr
K to accept  it in response to this decision. IPA is entitled to deduct any amount towards
this repair  that its already  paid Mr K.
Mr K feels  he was told that if he got the repairs done, IPA would  reimburse him for these
costs. Ive listened to the calls between IPA and Mr K. The call handler  told him to send
in any invoices for IPA to consider. But this doesnt mean the call handler was
suggesting that IPA would reimburse  the costs  simply that it would look at if they were
covered. So I dont think IPA misled  Mr K here. And it seems to me that Mr K wouldve
always needed to get the repairs  done to fix the leak.
So overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down his
first claim. And I think that its offer to pay a 50% contribution towards the second  repair
is a fair one.
IPA offered  Mr K compensation of £50 for not sending out an engineer to inspect the
second leak. I think this is a fair award in the circumstances. As our investigator
explained, we wont generally make awards to third party representatives. So Im not
telling IPA to pay any more compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SAs
offer to pay 50% of the invoice for the October  2018 repairs is fair and reasonable.
I direct  Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr K 50% of the costs  of the October 2018
invoice. It has already offered Mr K £200  towards  this repair.  So it may deduct any
payment its already made from any further settlement due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7203668