K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a card protection  policy  in August  2004.
background 
Miss T complained shed  been mis-sold a card protection  policy  in connection  with her credit 
card in August  2004. She said shed only just moved  to the UK at the time and was 
pressured to take it out.
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint. In relation to the premium paid in 2004, it said the fraud 
cover hadnt  been  overstated  and all the policy benefits had been clearly explained. It also 
said it would  have made clear the policy was optional. And in relation  to the premiums paid 
in and after 2005, it said Miss T had missed the date for claiming under the redress  scheme 
thatd been set up for policies such as hers. Miss T brought  her complaint to this service.
HSBC then offered  to refund the premium Miss T had paid in 2004  together  with interest of 
8% simple  a year.
An investigator was satisfied HSBCs offer was enough. Miss T didnt  agree. The complaint 
was therefore  passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
the premium paid before 14 January 2005
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has offered to refund Miss T the premium she paid in 2004  together  with interest of 
8% simple  a year. I havent considered whether the policy was mis-sold because  even if I 
were to decide it was, I wouldnt  require HSBC  to pay more than this. Im satisfied this is fair 
compensation for the premium  Miss T paid in 2004.
HSBC initially said that because Miss T has moved  since being a customer  of it, she needs 
to provide proof of her identity and her new address. Following  my involvement, its decided  
to waive  this requirement.
the premiums paid on or after 14 January  2005
In 2013, the financial services  regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA),  agreed  a 
redress scheme to compensate consumers, like Miss T, with card protection policies.
Broadly the redress  scheme required businesses like HSBC  to return premiums paid on or 
after 14 January  2005 to consumers who made  a claim under the scheme before a certain 
date. The redress scheme was approved by the High Court.
The FCA also decided  as it can when theres  a redress scheme  that the ombudsman 
service should follow  the rules of the scheme when deciding complaints about  sales  of 
policies that wouldve been covered by the scheme. Im satisfied Miss Ts card protection  
policy was partly covered  by the scheme.
Ref: DRN72750032This means  that rather  than decide  whats fair and reasonable in relation to the premiums  
paid on or after 14 January  2005, I can only look at whether the redress scheme rules were  
followed and whether Miss T has received what  she was entitled to under those rules.
The redress  scheme  rules say Claim Forms  must  be received by the Scheme 
Administrators on or before the Bar Date.  If a Claim Form is received after the Bar Date, the 
Claim Form will be rejected and the Scheme  Creditor [Miss T in this case]  shall have no right 
to Redress.
So, claims had to be made by the bar date which was 30 August 2014. Although there  was a 
later bar date of 28 February 2015  if one of the exceptional circumstances listed in the rules 
applied.
The redress  scheme  has provided its records for Miss T. They  show  a vote form was sent to 
her on 26 November 2013 and a claim form on 25 February  2014.  But a completed claim 
form wasnt received, and Miss T didnt contact the redress scheme before the relevant bar 
dates. I also cant see that Miss T contacted  HSBC before the bar dates.
I accept that Miss T didnt receive this documentation.  It was sent to an old address which 
was still the address the policy administrator held. But the redress  scheme rules simply say 
Any notice given  under the Scheme by the Scheme Administrators to any person shall be 
sufficiently served by posting the same by first class (or equivalent)  or airmail post to or 
leaving the same at the address of such person last known  to [the policy  administrator].
There wasnt a requirement  for the documentation to be received. And in fact, the rules 
explicitly say The Bar Date will apply to all Scheme  Creditors irrespective of whether or not 
they receive actual  written  notice of the Scheme.
Having looked  at what happened  here, Im satisfied the redress  scheme rules were followed.  
I understand Miss T is frustrated. But the redress scheme rules dont allow for an exception  
to be made.  And as set out above, Im required to follow those rules when deciding her 
complaint.
fair compensation
I therefore require  HSBC to:
Refund the 2004 card protection policy premium paid by Miss T.
Pay Miss T interest  at 8% simple a year* on this premium  from the date it was paid 
to the date compensation is paid.
*I understand HSBC is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. 
Whether Miss T needs to take any further action will depend on her financial circumstances. 
More information  about the tax position  can be found on our website. Miss T should refer 
back to HSBC if shes unsure of the approach its taken and both parties should contact 
HM Revenue & Customs  if they want to know more  about the tax treatment  of this portion of 
the compensation.
Ref: DRN72750033my final decision
My final decision is that what HSBC UK Bank  Plc has now offered Miss T is enough. I 
require it to pay her fair compensation  as set out above. I dont uphold her complaint in 
relation to the premiums paid in and after 2005.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Laura Parker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7275003