K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed that AXA France  IARD, as the insurer, should take responsibility for this 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.  Mrs W says 
AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mrs W took out a store  card in 1996  and the PPI was added in 2000. Mrs W paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mrs Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
AXA says the policy was sold during a telephone call. During that telephone call, FICL 
should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear to Mrs W that the policy  was optional. 
Mrs W says she was not aware the PPI was optional.  Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able 
to provide any further information - such as a recording of that telephone call or a copy  of the 
call script  used at the time. So its not possible for me to know exactly  what  was said at the 
time this policy was taken  out. But based on what I do know of the sales process  at the time 
and given the fact the PPI was added several  years after she applied for the store card,  I
think Mrs W would have understood the policy  was optional  when  she chose to take it.
So on balance I think AXA made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Based on my experience of how AXA usually sold these policies at the time, I dont think its
likely it gave advice about whether  to buy the policy. So this meant it didnt have to check  the
PPI was suitable for Mrs W. But it did have to make sure she got the information  she needed
to decide if it was right for her.
Mrs W has provided us details  of her circumstances in 1994, but not in 2000  when  the PPI 
was sold. Our adjudicator  has asked for these details, but we havent received them. So Ive 
considered her circumstances in 1994.  Based on what Ive seen it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Mrs W has said she a was 
self-employed foster carer  and child-minder so she wouldnt have been able to make  a claim 
because she was self-employed.  Looking at the policy terms I dont think  being self-
employed is likely to have  made  it any more  difficult for her to make a claim. 
 
Mrs W has also said she was employed by social services and would receive sick pay. If this 
was the case,  the PPI would have  paid out on top of what  Mrs W was entitled to, as well as 
helping her cover payments if she lost her job. So I think it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong
Ref: DRN71407482So although  its possible  the information  AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been,  I dont think better  information about  the PPI would have put her off taking  
out the cover. And I dont think Mrs W has lost out from anything AXA might have done 
wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs W has said,  but for the reasons explained above
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against AXA France  IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7140748