K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that a car she had been financing through an agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading  as Audi Finance, was not of satisfactory 
quality and that she wasnt told about  her rights to reject the car.
background
Mrs W took receipt of a new car in March 2017. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. 
Very shortly afterwards, within the first few days, she noticed  the seat belts  would  not work 
and she returned  the car to the dealership.  Mrs W says that at this point she asked to reject 
the car but the dealership would not let her. VWFS say Mrs W accepted the repair to the 
seat belt unit but they dont accept that there  was a request to reject the vehicle. The repair 
was successful but Mrs W says the dealership should have told her about her rights to reject  
the vehicle in the first 30 days.
Mrs W also complains  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The car was returned to the 
dealership for the following repairs:
March 2018 - air filter box cover  loose and intake pipe repair  required;
May/June 2018  - clip secured  on side window;
June 2018 - windscreen check  after replacement by third party, wheel alignment; 
August 2018 - headlight beam assist not working properly
September 2018 - auto headlight  problem
Mrs W complained  to VWFS about  the quality of her vehicle  but they rejected her complaint. 
They explained that they were only responsible  for the quality of the car at the point of 
supply and as Mrs W hadnt  complained  to them for 19 months there  was no evidence  the 
faults were present from the beginning. 
Mrs W was still dissatisfied. She sold the car in January  2019  but referred her complaint to 
this service where our adjudicator provided  his opinion. He was persuaded that the repair  to 
the seat belt unit had most probably been accepted by Mrs W and he was therefore 
persuaded that VWFS hadnt done anything wrong in that respect as he thought  the repair 
had been successful. 
He went on to consider  the subsequent faults  with the car. He noted that it would no longer 
be practical to obtain an independent inspectors report to ascertain if the faults Mrs W 
complained of were  likely to have  been present from the beginning when he said VWFS  
were responsible for the cars quality. He wasnt persuaded there was enough evidence to 
suggest the faults, listed above, were developing at the point the car was supplied. So he 
didnt think VWFS needed to take any further  action.  
He noted that Mrs W had suggested  that VWFS had been responsible for checking the 
windscreen fitting had been done  correctly and that the dealerships failure  to do this 
properly may have been the reason for the subsequent failure of the lights. But he explained 
that VWFS were  only responsible for the actions of the dealership when  negotiating  the 
contract on their behalf and that it would not be fair to hold them responsible  for any poor 
workmanship on the dealerships part.
Ref: DRN73071622He also considered whether there  was evidence that the finance agreement had been mis-
sold to Mrs W as she wasnt told of her rights to reject the car, if faulty,  in the first 30 days. 
He noted that the pre-contract check list that had been signed by Mrs W stated that her 
rights to withdraw had been explained  to her and he didnt think  it would be fair for him to 
ignore this information. He didnt expect all the details of the relevant legislation to have 
been discussed with Mrs W before she signed the agreement and he noted that she had 
been presented  with the details of the finance company so she could discuss  any issues  with 
them. So, overall,  he didnt think it would be fair to ask VWFS to take any further action.
Mrs W didnt agree with the adjudicator and she therefore asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs W so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs W. The car 
here was brand new so I would not expect anything to be wrong with it when supplied. 
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Relevant legislation would  encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the first 
six months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
Ref: DRN73071623goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But if the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
the seat belt fault
Its clear from the job cards Ive seen  that this fault was reported  to the dealership  within the 
first thirty days and Mrs W would therefore have  been able to invoke her short term right, 
under the relevant legislation, to reject the car at that point had she chosen  to. 
But Mrs W says she asked to reject  the car and was refused  and was never  told about her 
short term right to reject the car.
VWFS refute this and say a repair was accepted.
So Ive had to consider  what I think was most  likely. Mrs W hasnt been able to provide any 
further supporting  information that she asked  to reject the car. I think it would have been 
likely that if a request  was made  it would have  been  made in written form so that a record 
was created. I understand Mrs W feels strongly about this but I dont think it would  be fair, in 
the absence of any further evidence,  to suggest a request was made  to reject the car. And 
as the repair  was successful I dont think VWFS  need to take any further action.
mis-selling
The finance  agreement said:
6.1  you have the right to withdraw from this agreement, without having to give any 
reason. Should  you wish to exercise this right, you must notify  us 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to suggest the agreement was mis-sold to Mrs W. She was 
given her right to withdraw  within the first 30 days and could always  have done so if she 
contacted VWFS.  
The pre-contract checklist  that Mrs W signed  also explained that she had been given:
An explanation of the effect of the right to withdraw from the finance  agreement and how 
and when this might be exercised
So I dont  think it would  be reasonable to suggest VWFS had not given Mrs W the necessary 
information. I think its most likely they did.
the faults with the car
Relevant legislation would  encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the first 
six months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. But if the fault happened  
after that then Id think it fair for the consumer to demonstrate the fault was there from the 
beginning.
Ref: DRN73071624Its not been possible to arrange  an independent inspection by an expert to confirm  if that 
was likely to have been the case.  Thats because the car has now been  sold on.
I dont think Mrs W has therefore been  able to demonstrate the faults that occurred from 
March 2018 and that Ive listed above  were present  or developing at the point of supply. I 
therefore dont  think VWFS were wrong  to reject  these as reasons  to terminate the contract 
and take the car back.
Im also not persuaded that the faults that have been listed demonstrate  that the car was not 
suitably durable.  This was a brand new car and I would  not expect significant  faults to arise 
with it in a short time frame. The issues that have been noted i.e. clips needing to be 
reattached and a loose  filter cover (amongst others), are I think  reasonably  attributable to 
acceptable wear  and tear on a vehicle. 
Mrs W says that the dealership were responsible for checking the correct windscreen fitting 
when hers was damaged.  The damaged  windscreen  was damaged in a separate incident 
that happened after the car was supplied. The subsequent repair check  is the dealerships  
responsibility and any claim  Mrs W has in this regard would need to be addressed to them 
and not to VWFS.
Overall, I am not persuaded that VWFS  have done anything wrong here and Im therefore  
not asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7307162