K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  about the length of time it took Acromas  Insurance Company Limited 
(Acromas) to repair her central heating boiler when she made a claim under her home  
emergency insurance policy.
background
Miss J had home emergency  cover with Acromas  through her bank account.  On 19 March  
2018 her central  heating  boiler broke down leaving her without any heating or hot water. So 
she notified Acromas.
Acromass engineers attended, but it took them three attempts, and until 6 April 2018,  before 
the boiler was operating again.  She complained to Acromas that:
It had taken this length  of time because the engineers had used  the wrong parts;
she had to take time off work;
she was without heating and hot water  throughout; and
although Acromas had offered hotel accommodation, this wasnt satisfactory  
because it didnt  include her pets.
Acromas apologised  for the time it had taken to complete the repairs,  which  it acknowledged  
was far from satisfactory. It paid her compensation of £250 in recognition  of the delay. Miss J 
didnt think this was enough in view of the trouble and upset  she had gone through. Her 
family had to move out because there was no heating or hot water,  and she had to take time 
off work. So she complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said the 
engineers had attended within 48 hours. They found the connection  to the plunge  sensor 
had melted and snapped off. Because of this, they weren't able to test the boiler,  as they 
were unable to get power to pump, fan, and other  important components  to the system.
A new sensor and cable  was ordered, and eventually replaced on 29 March  2018. At that 
stage it was found a new PCB (printed  circuit  board) was required. The investigator didnt 
think this would have  been apparent until power was restored after the first repair. 
The new PCB was fitted on 4 April 2018, but it was then found a gas valve wasnt opening 
and needed to be replaced. Again the investigator didnt think this could  have been  
anticipated until the PCB was working  properly. The valve was replaced, and the heating 
and hot water restored,  on 6 April 2018.
The investigator said that while he understood Miss Js frustration at the time it took to 
resolve the boiler failure, he didnt think Acromas  or its repairers had caused any 
unnecessary delays. Acromas had offered  Miss J £250 as compensation for the time it took 
to complete the repairs, which  he thought  was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Js policy  said:
'We will also pay up to £250 for overnight  accommodation including  transport for you or your 
family if you're unable to stay in your home due to a covered emergency.'
Ref: DRN76267492Acromas had offered  to arrange hotel accommodation, but Miss J declined  this because she 
wouldnt have been able to take her pets with her. While he understood Miss Js decision, 
the investigator said provision for pets wasnt included in the insurance  cover.  So he couldnt 
ask Acromas to do anything more to put things right.
Miss J didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. So this complaint  has been passed  
to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the files of Acromas and its engineers to try to understand how the delays arose.  
Although Miss J has said that part of the cause  was that the engineers  ordered the wrong 
parts after their first visit, this doesnt seem  to be the case.
It appears the boiler was not a common model,  and was over 16 years  old. So parts  for it 
werent as readily  available as for other models, and the need for a replacement PCB 
became apparent immediately before a bank holiday weekend. Also the nature  of the faults  
meant that later faults didnt become apparent until the earlier faults had been  mended.
I understand Miss Js unhappiness and frustration at the fact that it took three  visits for the 
engineers to complete the repairs, during which time she was without heating and hot water.  
However I cant say that either Acromas or its engineers was responsible  for any 
unavoidable delay during  this process.  
I also think Acromas  did what  it reasonably could within  the terms of the policy to make 
alternative accommodation available. But under the policy  terms it wasnt required to provide 
accommodation for Miss Js pets.  
Acromas has paid Miss J compensation of £250 in recognition of the upset and 
inconvenience she suffered. I cant reasonably require it to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7626749