K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank PLc (Natwest) wouldnt give him a 
temporary overdraft. He says Natwest has discriminated  against  him. 
background
Mr F says Natwest told him both in branch and over the phone  that he could get a temporary 
overdraft. But when  he applied  online,  his request was declined.  Mr F says hes been 
granted a temporary overdraft before, and that by declining his latest request, Natwest  was 
discriminating against him. Mr Fs told us he suffers from autism and depression. 
Mr F complained to Natwest. Natwest partly upheld his complaint. It said it provided  Mr F 
with misleading  information over the phone about  applying for an overdraft, and paid him 
£5.40 to cover the cost of the call. Natwest also accepted that thered been some  confusion 
about the advice given  to Mr F about whether he could get temporary credit if his application 
for an overdraft was refused. Natwest paid Mr F £100 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Natwest explained to Mr F that his application for an overdraft was declined because  he 
didnt meet its lending  criteria. It said it treats  all customers fairly, regardless of individual  
circumstances, and offers support to customers who might need it. But Natwest  said it 
couldve handled Mr Fs complaint better and apologised.
Mr F didnt  accept Natwests  response and referred  his complaint to us. Mr F maintained that 
Natwest had discriminated against  him. He said Natwest misled  him into thinking  he would 
get a temporary  overdraft  or temporary  credit if his overdraft application was declined.  Mr F 
didnt think the £100 offered by Natwest was enough  to take account of the impact of its 
mistakes on his mental health.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought  it unlikely 
Natwest wouldve told Mr F that his application  for a temporary overdraft would  be 
successful. He said the merits of such an application  need to be properly assessed in line 
with Natwests lending  criteria. He also said that being granted a temporary overdraft or 
temporary credit in the past didnt mean Mr F would automatically qualify for this in the 
future. 
Our investigator also didnt think Mr F had been discriminated against. He said hed expect 
Natwest to offer support to a customer if needed.  But when considering applications  for 
lending, Natwest would  have to consider these in accordance with its lending  criteria. 
Mr F didnt  agree and so his case has been  passed  to me to decide.  Mr F said because 
Natwest gave him a temporary  overdraft last year, it should do the same now. And by 
refusing to do so, Mr F maintained Natwest was discriminating against  him. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
Natwest accepts it couldve been  clearer when discussing Mr Fs potential lending options.  
And that during a lengthy phone call he mightve been given the impression his application 
Ref: DRN73932962for a temporary overdraft  would be successful. Natwest has reimbursed Mr F the cost of that 
call and paid him £100. Mr F doesnt think thats  enough.
Natwests offer wasnt intended  to reflect  any mistakes in its handling of Mr Fs application 
for an overdraft  rather it was for the poor advice he was given. Mr F was still able to make  
his application  and any misleading advice  he was given  had no impact on the outcome  of 
that application. Im therefore satisfied Natwest has done enough to put things right.  
Mr Fs main concern  is that Natwest didnt take account of his mental  health  when 
considering his overdraft application and that it discriminated  against  him. Ive seen no 
evidence to support  that. Natwest has to consider every application for credit  on its own 
merits in accordance with its lending criteria.  Whether previous applications have been 
successful or not isnt part of that consideration. Nor are the personal health  circumstances  
of the applicant. 
Natwest cant extend credit if its unlikely a customer will be able to repay the debt. Ive seen 
evidence that Natwest considered Mr Fs application  appropriately and that it was refused 
because of concerns  it had about his credit  score. This is a business decision Natwest is 
entitled to make.
I appreciate that Mr F has found  himself in a difficult positon. And this is particularly hard for 
him given  his mental health. I know hell find my decision disappointing. But I want to assure  
him that Ive seen  no evidence that Natwest discriminated  against  him.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7393296