K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that they were mis-sold a monthly premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds)  
are now responsible for this complaint so the complaint has been set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Lloyds in my decision.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  sold a PPI policy in connection  with a mortgage  in 2002. 
The benefit  of the policy was split equally between Mr and Mrs B. It would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or Mrs B were off sick or lost their 
job/s.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the policy. Im satisfied 
they were eligible based on their age and circumstances at the time of the sale.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the policy  was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to their account. Mr and Mrs B initially were clear  that PPI 
had been added without their knowledge  or consent. They said that had they been  offered 
PPI then they would have  rejected it. 
However, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. This presented Mr and Mrs B 
two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI and I note that they chose  the option to take 
PPI. They  also completed a separate application  form for PPI and signed the application  
forms.
We provided Mr and Mrs B with copies of the above documents  and they have confirmed 
that the signatures are theirs. However,  Mr and Mrs B now say that although they cant  
remember the sale specifically, they say Lloyds  told them in relation to other  products that 
they should take PPI and then cancel it after a month. It does appear from the information 
provided by Lloyds and the statements provided  by Mr and Mrs B that they only paid the PPI 
premium for one month  and the policy  was cancelled after a month. 
Ref: DRN72645692Of course I cant  know for sure what was discussed  during  the sale,  however, given what Mr 
and Mrs B said previously about  not being  told they had been  sold PPI and the fact that they 
now say they dont recollect the sale itself, while I accept that PPI was cancelled after a 
month, I cant  say this is more likely to have  been because Lloyds told them  they had to take 
PPI to get the mortgage in the first place and that they only cancelled  it because of what  they 
say Lloyds told them. The evidence that Ive seen from the time of the sale,  shows PPI was 
presented as optional and applied  to the account because Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy. This means they had to take 
adequate steps to ensure  it was suitable for them. I dont  know  whether they took all the 
steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time,  I think it was suitable for them.   I say this because:
The policy was in joint names and the policy split seems appropriate given the 
proportion of the household income  Mr and Mrs B each  earned.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs B were affected  by the more restrictive terms or exclusions 
in the policy  which  would have made it difficult for them  to make  a successful claim 
under the policy.  
Mr B says he would  have received three  to six months pay if he couldnt  work due to 
sickness or an accident. Mrs B says she would have received 6 months full pay 
followed by six months half pay. They also said they had savings.  However, the policy  
would have paid out alongside these employer benefits and for a much longer time 
than Mr Bs sick pay. Mrs Bs pay would have dropped to half in the second six months 
and so the PPI would have been  particularly useful for her at this point. I appreciate 
what Mrs B has told us about her redundancy entitlement but again  the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to this.
The PPI appears to have been  affordable to Mr and Mrs B at the time of the sale.  
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B, Lloyds also had to give them  
clear enough information  so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about  the costs, benefits  and main exclusions under the policy.
I dont think Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs B all of the information as they should have. But this 
in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have  to go on and consider  whether better  
information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better  information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
It follows that I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs B this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Ref: DRN72645693Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7264569