K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr B says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Bs credit  agreement had a section  for PPI. It briefly  described what it was for and 
what it cost, and then there  was a box Mr B could  tick if he wanted it, or which could be 
left blank if he didnt  want it. The box was ticked and Mr B signed the agreement.  So 
I think that Lloyds  made  it clear  Mr B didnt have  to take out PPI and that he chose to take 
it  though I can certainly understand why he might  not remember  this after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had to check that the policy was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr B 
said the policy was unnecessary as he was never in debt, and he only took out the card 
because he had to have one for work.  It may well be that Mr B never  has a balance  these 
days, but I can see from his statements that in the past he did sometimes  have balances 
which he paid off over time rather than in full each month. And its worth  bearing in mind 
that the PPI was only charged on his outstanding balance, so if hed never  had a balance 
he wouldnt have ever paid for PPI as there  wouldnt have been any debt for it to protect.
Mr B had some sick pay and limited savings,  but the PPI covered  him for much longer, 
and he didnt have  any other protection in place in case he lost his job. I understand his 
family may have been happy to help, but this card was Mr Bs sole responsibility and 
I dont think it wouldve been  suitable for Lloyds to recommend  he instead relies  on 
someone else. Further, there was always the chance theyd be unable  to help when 
needed. And the PPI meant  Mr B wouldnt have to ask his family to make his payments, 
nor go to such extreme measures as selling his belongings just to pay his credit  card.  So 
I think the PPI couldve  really been useful for Mr B in case something went  wrong.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to 
have changed  his mind. Here,  it looks like he chose to take out the policy,  which  implies  
he wanted this type of cover.  As I said above,  it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI, and it would have been useful for Mr B in case  he 
was off sick or lost his job. And so I dont think better  information  about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Ref: DRN75672272Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have  told Mr B about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7567227