K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs R bought the policy in 2004 sometime after taking out a mortgage in 1999. She applied 
for the PPI policy over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs R for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £426 a month towards Mrs Rs mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £25.71  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs R was employed  in podiatry.  She has told us she was entitled to three 
months worth of sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying her mortgage  should 
she be unable to work.  Mrs R has said she was in good health. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that Mrs R switched mortgages in 2005 and that 
this mortgage  account closed in 2009.   
Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Rs representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mrs R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs R and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN70603932Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mrs R arranged a product switch on her mortgage after mortgage lending became regulated 
in October 2004   this led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA regulated  mortgage. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN70603933The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mrs Rs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs R and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN70603934did Mrs R know She had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Because the policy was sold a long time ago there isnt very much  information to help me 
work out what happened. But because the policy was sold some time after the mortgage 
was taken out I think Mrs R wouldve understood she had a choice in taking the policy  and 
that she didnt  need it to have the mortgage.  
Ive also seen a copy of the letter sent out to Mrs R confirming the direct  debit payment 
amounts and dates  for the policy. I think if Mrs R hadnt agreed to take out the policy she 
wouldve questioned  why she was receiving information on payments for the policy.  And I 
think Mrs R understood she had the policy  because  she had a successful claim on the policy 
for unemployment amounting to £951.40  in 2006.  
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs R knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Looking at what happened when Santander  sold Mrs R the PPI its not clear  whether it 
provided advice.  So Im going to treat the sale as if it was advised  this puts Mrs R in the 
best position. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs R. It seems  Mrs R cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a phone  call. The adviser had some limited information  about Mrs 
Rs financial  circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Mrs R would  have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Santander  considered whether Mrs R had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs R given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs R had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Rs ability  to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs R was not 
Ref: DRN70603935working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits she 
says she would have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs R. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs R. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Rs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mrs Rs 
circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition and the fact the policy would  only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mrs Rs circumstances, including her employers  sickness  provisions (which 
she might  expect  to provide an income  during the policys qualification period)  
and the limits to those  provisions, which mean the policy  could play an 
important role after those  provisions  were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs R be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mrs R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs R was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs R was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs R would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs R agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs R Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mrs R all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN70603936Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs R has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mrs R? To what extent  did Mrs R 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs R. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs R 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs R 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs R, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mrs R would have acted  differently,  or whether She would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mrs R says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN70603937return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Rs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs R knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander  told her the exact premium at the point Mrs R 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mrs R would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might 
have raised that with Santander at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs R would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the phone call in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mrs R would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Rs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs R had or received  
treatment or advice for during the 12 months before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs R be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs R pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs R from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs R was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Ref: DRN70603938Mrs R wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions   Mrs R didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think She had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs R would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs R had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs R was unable (through  disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mrs R that any claim she made would be limited to a 12 month 
period]. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for, but she 
had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs R would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs R be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  her home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs R was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs R 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs R would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN70603939Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs R 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mrs R compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs R thinks Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mrs R, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs R and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs R in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Ref: DRN706039310Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7060393