K820x#14complaint
Mr E, on behalf of the company,  complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC owes the company a 
sum of money in respect of a security deposit.  
background
Barclays provided the company with merchant acquiring facilities  and a business credit card. 
Mr E has explained to our service  that he paid a sum of £100,000 to Barclays as a security 
deposit. 
Mr E acknowledges that the company  has received £100,000 back  from Barclays. But he still 
thinks Barclays owes the company an additional  sum of money for a security  deposit which 
they paid for a credit card facility. 
An investigator has already looked  at this case. Based on all the evidence, he wasnt able to 
say Barclays still owed  the company another security deposit.  In light of this, Mr E has asked  
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too am unable to uphold  this complaint 
for the reasons already expressed  by the investigator.
As has already  been explained, Barclays holds security  deposits for all clients in one 
account. Ive carefully looked at the statements  and only two payments were made by the 
company. As I understand a sum of £80,000 was returned around March 2017. Then a sum 
of money was offset against an existing debt,  meaning a remaining balance  was then 
returned to the company. 
Ive not seen evidence of any other payment having  been taken  by Barclays  either manually 
or automatically in respect of a security deposit. Im therefore unable to say that Barclays  still 
owes the company  a further sum of money  for a security  deposit.
A lot of evidence has been filed with our service  by Mr E concerning  this complaint. And I do 
appreciate how strongly he feels about this matter. However I think Barclays has provided a 
satisfactory explanation  for everything  that has happened and all evidence Mr E has filed 
with us. Overall Ive not seen anything to show that Barclays  still owes  the company this 
supposed additional security deposit. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E, on behalf  of 
the company,  to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7578550