K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2000. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr C says FICL mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C has said he wasnt told he had a choice about taking the PPI and he says he wouldnt 
have taken it if hed known he had a choice.  But Mr Cs card application form had a PPI 
section with a box to sign if he wanted the cover. It says on the form to only sign the box if 
you require the cover. On Mr Cs form he signed  in this box. And I think  he likely wouldve 
known he didnt have  to sign there  if he didnt  want the cover. So based on what  I have, I 
think its likely FICL  made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take the cover - and he chose to 
take it. 
Likewise Mr C has said he wasnt aware  he had the cover. But what Ive seen makes  me 
think he was aware  he was taking it at the time he took it. But I can understand why he might  
not remember this, given how long ago he took out his card.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check the PPI was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take the cover - so it looks to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. And from what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the likely  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. From what  Mr C has told us, his work sickness  or redundancy pay 
wouldve lasted no more  than six months.  And although hes said his family couldve  helped 
with his card payments,  other peoples circumstances  and ability to help can change. So 
taking everything into account, I dont think  better information about the PPI would  have put 
Mr C off taking  the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mr Cs points,  including what hes said about not recalling getting 
any information afterwards about the PPI, not being told he could buy it elsewhere  and not 
having bought it on occasions  when he couldve when he was made aware  it was optional. 
But Ive explained  why what Ive seen makes  me think FICL made it clear Mr C didnt have to 
take the PPI. And FICL didnt have to tell Mr C about other PPI policies available  elsewhere  
that it didnt sell. So with all this in mind,  and taking into account  everything else Ive already 
said above, these  points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN74844472my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7484447