K822xcomplaint
Mr L says he shouldnt  have been  given loans  by Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) because it didnt  carry  out proper affordability checks  before agreeing each loan.  
And had it carried out these checks,  it wouldve seen that these loans were not affordable for 
him. 
background 
Mr L took 5 loans from Lending Stream between  March 2014 and July 2017. A summary of 
Mr Ls borrowing, based on the information given  to us by Lending Stream,  can be found 
below:
loan number loan amount received dateactual repayment 
date
1 £350.00 15/03/2014 05/09/2014
2 £400.00 06/09/2014 17/10/2014
3 £500.00 19/07/2016 30/08/2016
4 £300.00 02/10/2016 22/03/2017
5 £350.00 31/07/2017 outstanding
Our adjudicator pointed  out that Lending  Stream had made an offer for loan 2, so he 
wouldnt be considering  that loan as he felt the offer was in line with what this service may 
have awarded, if we decided that loan shouldnt have been given. 
So the adjudicator only considered loan 1 and loans 3  5. And he thought Lending Stream 
hadnt done anything wrong  by providing  those  loans, taking into account  the information  it 
knew about Mr L at the time, the amounts borrowed, and the significant break in lending  
between loans 2 and 3. 
Lending Stream appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
However, Mr L didnt agree with the findings. In response, Mr L says he doesnt think it was 
right that Lending Stream  provided  the final loan because at the time he was having  severe  
financial difficulties. Mr L also says that he doesnt  believe  the checks  Lending  Stream 
carried out went far enough.  
No agreement could  be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
And Lending Stream has confirmed that the offer it has made in relation to loan 2 is still 
available to Mr L. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Both Lending Stream and Mr L appear to accept that loan 2 shouldnt  have been provided. 
So in this decision I wont be focusing  on this loan, as it is no longer in dispute. Instead, Ill 
be looking  at loan 1 and loans 3 - 5. 
Ref: DRN77455462Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks  to understand 
whether Mr L could repay his loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could  take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure details. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
For all of the loans  that Im considering  Lending Stream  says it agreed to Mr Ls applications  
after he provided details  of his monthly  income,  which he declared  to be between  £1,500 
and £2,000 per month. 
Lending Stream also took details of Mr Ls expenditure, which  he declared to be between 
£761 and £1,011 per month  for the loans that Im looking at.  And,  based  on what  he 
declared, Lending Stream believed Mr L would be able to afford  the repayments he was 
committed to making.  And  in these circumstances, I dont think  it was irresponsible  of 
Lending Stream to have provided loan 1 and loans 3 - 5. 
What is also important to note, is that Mr L didnt take any loans for around 21 months  after 
repaying loan 2. In these  circumstances  I think it would be fair for Lending Stream to have  
treated Mr Ls application for loan 3 afresh. So what this means is that Ive treated loans 3, 4 
and 5 as part of a new lending chain.  What this means for the complaint, is Lending Stream  
would treat loan 3 as if it was loan 1, in a new chain. 
I accept that Mr Ls actual full circumstances may not have been reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream  may have obtained via a 
credit check.  And Mr Ls actual financial position might well have been  apparent  if further 
information  such as bank statements - had been  obtained. 
But Lending  Stream could  only make  its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time.  I dont think for the loan 1 or loans 3  5 that it had reached the stage where there 
was a greater  risk of these loans being unsustainable for Mr L. And based on the information 
Lending Stream did have  available, it could see that these loans were affordable for Mr L. In 
these circumstances,  I dont think Lending Stream needed to take further steps to verify the 
information Mr L provided, such as asking him for evidence of his income and outgoings. So 
I dont think Lending  Stream  was wrong to have provided these loans. 
Ref: DRN77455463So in conclusion, I think the checks Lending Stream carried out for the loans that I 
considered as part of this decision  (loan 1 and loans  3, 4 and 5) went  far enough,  and what 
Lending Stream found out indicated that Mr L would be able to afford his repayments.  And I 
also think, that a point  hadnt yet been reached  in the lending  relationship when  it wouldve 
been proportionate for Lending  Stream to have  gathered information from Mr L about any 
other payday loans  he may have had outstanding or to have verified what he was saying at 
this time. This means, I dont think Lending  Stream wouldve been aware of the financial 
difficulties that Mr L says he was having at the time of the final loan. 
I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed  by the outcome  Ive reached, but I want  to reassure 
him that Ive considered all the evidence  that has been provided as well as taking on board 
the additional comments he made  in response to the adjudicators findings. 
 
putting things right
As already mentioned,  Lending Stream has already  agreed to uphold  Mr Ls complaint about 
loan 2. So, to confirm, it should do the following to put things right for Mr L:
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;  and
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Mr Ls credit  file 
The above  refund will be used to offset any outstanding balance held by Lending  Stream.   
Lending Stream says this will still leave a balance to repay and it is willing  to arrange  an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr L.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im partly  upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr L as set out above.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7745546