K821x#15complaint
H, a limited company  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted access  to its accounts 
and delayed the payment of money from its currency  accounts.
background
HSBC says it wanted to carry  out a safeguard review to confirm the information it held 
about H. It says it then told H it would be restricting access  to its currency  accounts.  And that 
all the accounts  would  be closed following its review. But it paid H £1,000 recognising that 
there had been  some  poor communication and inconvenience.  H referred  the complaint to 
this service and explained  that it had still not received the funds  from its currency  accounts. 
HSBC paid H a further £200  in compensation for this.
Our adjudicator said that she did not think that this was sufficient. She said that HSBC 
should pay total compensation of £1,500, refund charges on the currency  accounts  from 26 
October 2018 and pay eight per cent simple  interest  on the currency  account balances  from 
28 December 2018 to the date the funds were  paid to H. She said that:
-There had clearly  been poor communication about the safeguard review and an initial 
letter about  the requirements of HSBC had been  wrongly  addressed.
-HSBC had said that it would be restricting the currency  accounts after 30 May 2018. 
It was entitled to do this under the terms and conditions of the accounts.
-H had been  told that the currency balances could be transferred  when  the account 
closed on 26 October  2018 if the director visited a branch. This was not correct  and 
when the director  visited on 28 December 2018 the funds  for H were still inhibited.
-When he complained  about this he was told he needed to provide instructions in 
writing. He did this and did not receive  all of the funds  until 29 January 2019.
-She thought  that the compensation now recommended reflected the impact of what 
had happened  to H and HSBC agreed to this.
H did not agree and wanted the complaint  to be reviewed. The director said that there  was a 
credit of 50,000  Euros in the account for several months that could  not be accessed. It was 
acting as an intermediary  and this had to be paid to one of its trading partners. H was unable  
to make this payment  and this resulted in reputational damage. H wanted  compensation of 
£5,000 to reflect this and the inconvenience and time spent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has provided  copies of the letters it sent to H about the safeguard  review.  And H has 
also provided copies  of emails it received about  some of the detailed  information it had been 
asked to provide.
HSBC wrote to H about the need  for a review  in January 2018 and said H would need  to get 
in contact within 60 days. It attempted to phone  H about this and there  is a record that there 
was a telephone interview on 15 February  2018.  It wrote again on 14 March  2018 saying 
that it still needed to undertake the review. And on 28 March  2018 it wrote to say that Hs 
currency accounts would be suspended  on 30 May 2018 and all the accounts closed on 24 
July 2018. H has provided emails  to show it was in contact with a member of staff and had 
Ref: DRN71127592provided information about its business. This dialogue continued while  the complaint was 
being considered.
H realised on 13 June  2018 that the currency accounts had, despite its contact with HSBC, 
been suspended. It said it needed  to make payments.  HSBC  considered  a complaint and 
issued a final response on 24 August 2018.  That said that it had decided to close  the 
accounts. HSBC  referred to a letter it sent on 22 August  2018  saying the accounts  would  
now be closed on 26 October  2018. The closure letter said that H would need to provide  
instructions about  what it wanted to do with the funds in the currency  account at least  two 
weeks before the closure date. That was the same information given with the previous 
closure letter.
HSBC sent a cheque for the sterling  funds from the current  account to H after the account 
closure. H had been in touch with HSBC about the currency accounts  in mid October 2018 
and was told it could  visit a branch to arrange for the funds to be transferred. It says that due 
to work commitments  of the director it did not visit a branch until 28 December 2018. I also 
understand from the information its provided that the currency accounts at a different 
business for the transfer became operational on 12 December 2018, even though I know  H 
says it had applied  for these at the start of September 2018.
Once it had provided  instructions in writing  there  was a delay in transferring the money to 
Hs new account. There were sizeable balances involved with over 75,000  Euros  and 75,000 
US Dollars.
my assessment
HSBC was entitled to carry out a review of Hs activities  and says that it needed  to do this for 
regulatory purposes. It was also entitled to decide  having given two months notice to 
suspend or withdraw  any services or facilities under the terms and conditions of the account 
and to close the account. Some  of the specific questions Ive seen that it asked H were 
about the source of the currency  transactions it received and the nature  of its business.
I accept that as far as H was concerned it thought it was complying with the requests.  It 
responded to the questions. In the meantime  the standard timescales  HSBC  was working to 
still were applicable.  I dont think that it was made  totally explicit  to H that this would still be 
the case while it was subject to the review. However, I cant  say that HSBC did not give H 
the required notice  of the suspension of its currency accounts.
Even if the implications of the letter about that were not clear, H realised by 13 June 2018 
that the currency accounts had been  suspended and that it would not have access to the 
money. I cant  see it was given any assurances  that this would change.
H has mentioned the implications in particular of a currency credit  of 50,000 Euros  which it 
could not pay out to another  party. I note from the information H has provided that the 
invoice for this payment was dated 29 August 2018 and gave its HSBC account details. The 
payment was credited on 17 September 2018.  I fully accept that H did not agree  that its 
currency account should have been suspended,  had already contacted this service  by then 
about its complaint,  and did not have the planned account with another  business set up to 
receive the payment. But Im afraid it did not have  a reasonable basis then to think that it 
would be able to access that money  until the currency account  closed. It did not seem to 
have the new account it wanted  to credit the money to until 12 December 2018. And it did 
Ref: DRN71127593not take steps to do this until 28 December 2018.  But in my view it should have been able to 
transfer the money on that day which was as soon as it was ready to give an instruction. 
I dont doubt that not being able to make this specific  payment had an impact on H. But I 
dont think that HSBC can fairly be responsible  for that until the period  starting  from 28 
December 2018  to the date it was received. My understanding is that the Euro  balance was 
transferred on 17 January  2019  but that the US Dollar balance  did not reach the new 
account until 29 January 2019. I agree H should be compensated for this with interest.
I also agree  with our adjudicators view about  the refund of the fees. I know  that in addition H 
wants significantly more than the £1,500 compensation now offered. Ive dealt with what I 
think could have caused the potential  reputational impact. And I dont find that HSBC was 
responsible for that. HSBC did though cause inconvenience and some delay. There would 
always have been  a level of inconvenience  to H from dealing with HSBCs  legitimate 
requests for information. However, here the poor communication, lack of a co-ordinated 
response, poor service and Hs need  to contact HSBC on a number of occasions  about this 
matter caused  significant  inconvenience. I know that the director  of H will be disappointed  
when I say that £1,500 in compensation in conjunction with the other payments Ive 
mentioned is a fair settlement  to this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to:
1)Pay H further compensation  of £300, making  a total of £1,500.
2)Pay H simple interest  on the currency balances at eight per cent per annum  starting 
from 28 December 2018 to the date the funds were  actually credited  to the accounts 
nominated by H.
3)Refund to H all fees to the currency accounts  from 26 October 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7112759