K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans Mr Lender provided  to Mrs C between March 
2014 and December 2016.  Mrs Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
takenDate 
repaidInstalments Amount Maximum 
repayment*Deferrals
1 10/03/2014 30/06/2014 1 £250 £338 3
2 30/06/2014 30/09/2014 1 £200 £360 2
3 30/09/2014 31/03/2015 6 £350 £163
4 29/04/2015 31/07/2015 3 £150 £87
5 25/11/2015 23/05/2016 6 £500 £208
6 25/05/2016 17/11/2016 6 £300 £134
7 05/12/2016 31/05/2017 6 £450 £169
* Please note these figures  have been rounded up/down
Mrs C says unaffordable  charges were added  to the loans. Mr Lender says that before the 
loans were provided it carried out thorough  affordability and credit  checks.  It verified Mrs Cs 
employment and says based on the information  it gathered the lending was affordable.
Mr Lender did make  an offer to refund loans 3 and 4 which  was rejected by Mrs C. 
In our adjudicators findings they felt loans 1 and 2 were  suitable but partially  upheld  Mrs Cs 
complaint and thought loans 3 to 7 shouldnt have been given. And in particular by the time 
of loan 6, Mrs Cs pattern  of borrowing showed she was persistently reliant on short term 
loans. Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN79041682the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C has didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because  of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about these loans. So I wont  be making  a 
decision about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship Mrs C had with 
Mr Lender. So I will take into account when considering  the other loans she took.
Loan 1 was deferred three times before it was paid off. Loan 2 was taken out the same  day 
loan 1 was paid off. Loan 2 was deferred twice before it was paid off. By the time loan 3 was 
taken out, which was on the same  day loan 2 was paid off, Mr Lender shouldve  realised that 
Mrs C was having trouble  making the loan repayments because she wasnt  able to settle  
these loans in line with the credit  agreements.   The repeated deferrals for loans 1 and 2 also 
did not assist  Mrs C as it increased the amount of interest due for that loan and pushed  back 
the date for repaying the principal sum.  So for this reason I dont think  loans 3  5 shouldve  
been approved  as Mrs C wasnt  in a position,  based  on her loan history  to sustainably repay 
these loans. 
Mr Lender has said as there was 117 days between loans 4 and 5 it deems  it as a new chain  
of borrowing. However, I dont agree with this. By the time of the break Mrs C had been 
indebted to Mr Lender for over a year and so in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont consider this gap to be significant  enough for Mr Lender to have believed  
that it could treat Mrs Cs application afresh.  So Ive considered Mrs Cs borrowing  
relationship as one chain  of lending. 
Ref: DRN79041683Ive also looked  at the pattern of borrowing and having done so, I believe Mr Lender should  
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable and so should not have 
provided any further loans, whether or not its checks suggested the loans were  affordable  for 
Mrs C. Given  the particular  circumstances  of Mrs Cs case,  I think  that this point was 
reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender  ought  to have realised  Mrs C was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs C had taken  out 5 loans  within 20 months  and was becoming 
persistently reliant on short term loans.  So Mr Lender ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mrs C was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  
her previous loan was leaving  in her finances  and that Mrs Cs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
From  loan 6 onwards  Mrs C was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a 
previous one. 
Mrs C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Mr Lender. Loan  7 
was taken out 33 months after Mrs Cs first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mrs C 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs C lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mrs C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mrs Cs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 3 to 7 and Mr Lender  should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender has already agreed  to refund loans 3 and 4. So taking this in to consideration, Mr 
Lender needs to - 
refund  all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loans 3 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 to 7 from Mrs Cs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 and 7 should be removed  from Mrs Cs 
credit file.
Ref: DRN79041684 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Cs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7904168