K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  (RCI) have refused to pay him for 
unused mileage on a car finance agreement he terminated.
background
Mr S took receipt of a new car in February 2016. He financed the deal through  a three year 
hire purchase agreement with RCI which allowed him to drive  30,000  miles per year before 
excess mileage charges were applied.  He voluntarily terminated  his agreement, as was his 
right, in July 2018 when the car had completed  69,319 miles. 
He didnt agree to sign the voluntary termination  forms RCI wanted  him to sign and instead 
he preferred to send  in his own letter of voluntary termination. This letter,  sent on 23 July 
2018, explained he wanted to terminate his agreement; that he would no longer be the 
owner of the car; that he wouldnt  insure it anymore and that he wanted RCI to pay him for 
his unused mileage. 
RCI terminated his agreement and attempts were  made to collect the car during which  
period Mr S advised  RCI that the car was no longer  insured and had been declared off the 
road. It was eventually collected  in August 2018  and RCI didnt make  any charges for 
refurbishment or excess mileage.
But RCI wouldnt pay Mr S for the unused  mileage.  They said they had no agreement with 
him to do this.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. She 
didnt think RCI had been unreasonable. She didnt  think theyd agreed to pay for unused  
mileage and she thought theyd applied  the terms of the finance agreement, Mr S had signed 
with them,  correctly. She understood that Mr S thought he had an agreement with them  to 
pay for unused mileage but she didnt think there  was evidence to suggest  they had agreed  
to the terms hed set out in his letter of 23 July 2018 and she therefore  didnt  think they 
needed to take any further action.
But Mr S disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN73599622Mr S first contacted RCI about voluntary termination in July 2018. They  wanted  to send him 
the voluntary termination pack which detailed the collection procedure  but Mr S wouldnt 
agree and preferred to send his own voluntary  termination letter  in which he stated  new 
terms. 
But I cant see that RCI agreed to these terms. It didnt,  for instance, agree to repay unused  
mileage charges or agree to the termination  date Mr S stated. And I cant see that at any 
point Mr S wouldve  believed theyd agreed  to these new terms. I think  its reasonable to 
suggest that the original terms of Mr Ss agreement  with RCI were still in place.
Mr S says that RCI agreed to his terms by not replying but I dont  think  thats fair. It seems 
clear there was never  an agreement and it therefore wouldnt be reasonable to ask them to 
deviate from the original  contract that Mr S had signed with them  in 2016.
The actual terms of his finance agreement explained  that he had a right to voluntarily 
terminate his contract when half the sums  due had been paid and that he must  not exceed  
the annual mileage or additional charges would be made. It did not say that hed receive any 
payment for unused  mileage. So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask RCI to take any further  
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7359962