K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold insurance  by Sesame  Limited.
background
Mr F was sold an income protection policy by Sesame. He said the policy was mis-sold 
because he was told it was compulsory to have alongside his mortgage back in 2001. He 
said the policy wasnt needed because he always had income protection  provided by his 
employers throughout  that time.  This was an advised sale. Mr F would like his premiums  
returned. 
Sesame said the policy wasnt mis-sold  because it suited Mr Fs needs at the time.  It also 
said it wasnt compulsory, rather,  it was a recommendation. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said the sales  documentation at the time 
made it clear  that the policy wasnt a requirement for taking the mortgage. But Mr F 
disagreed. He highlighted the treating customers fairly principles and said that Sesame failed 
to adhere to its obligations  under  the rules. He also said that Sesame breached the relevant 
industry rules at the time  MCOBS
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing  so are 
similar to those already  explained by our investigator. Put simply, theres no persuasive 
evidence to support  Mr Fs arguments  about the policy being a pre-requisite for the new 
mortgage he took in 2000. Ill explain why. 
Ive reviewed the sales literature that supported the alleged mis-sale, however, theres 
nothing to say that this policy was compulsory. Instead, the evidence says;
I therefore  recommend  that you effect an Income  protection plan
Im satisfied, based on the evidence available, that the income  protection  plan was a 
recommendation, rather than a compulsory product that runs alongside Mr Fs new 
mortgage. Im further persuaded because  there  are other policies that were made obligatory 
and these were clearly stated within the same sales literature. And so, I think  its unlikely that 
Mr F was told he had to take income  protection. 
I accept Mr Fs arguments that he may have had other  income protection  policies provided 
by his respective  employers, but Ive not seen any evidence to support that he already had 
an income protection policy  at that time. Ive seen  evidence that shows  he had policies post-
sale. I also think its most likely hes had other income protection  policies throughout the 
years that followed given his occupation. But I dont think its relevant to this complaint 
because that happened after the initial  sale of his mortgage and this policy.  Im satisfied the 
Ref: DRN71556782advice given was suitable at the time considering  the demands and needs statement  and 
other various  sales literature Ive seen. 
Because of my findings,  I dont  see any benefit in commenting on Mr Fs other  arguments  
about Sesame  breaching  the TCF principles and the alleged breach of MCOBS  rules  
simply because I dont  think this policy was mis-sold. Its clear  the policy was a 
recommendation and that Mr F opted  to take it. I cant say precisely what happened  back  in 
2000 as I wasnt  present  at the time of sale. However, the evidence from that time 
persuades me that this was most likely the case because it distinguished between  the 
policies that were compulsory and those  that were  recommended. The income protection 
policy was a recommendation  and so I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint for those reasons. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2021.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7155678