K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that One Insurance Limited  wont  pay his claim made on his motor 
insurance policy and cancelled the policy from the start (voided it). He wants it to pay his 
claim.
background
Mr Ws car was stolen  but One Insurance declined his claim because  it said he hadnt told it 
when he took out his policy and renewed it that his car had been modified. Mr W said hed 
told One Insurance this in a phone  call.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr W 
had been asked a clear  question about  whether the car had been  modified in any way. She 
thought he knew  it had, but hed deliberately  answered no. She couldnt see evidence that 
Mr W had corrected this in a phone call he said hed made  or in response to his proposal 
documents. She thought  One Insurance wouldnt have offered cover if it had known about 
the modifications. So she thought it was entitled  to void the policy,  decline the claim and 
retain the premiums.  
Mr W replied that he hadnt misrepresented information about  his car. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ws disappointment and frustration  with One Insurances decision to 
void his policy and decline his claim.  I can see that hes adamant  that he didnt do anything  
wrong or misrepresented information about his car. 
Our investigator had already explained that we consider  complaints about  misrepresentation 
under the relevant legislation. Where  a complaint arises from non-disclosure or 
misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we look to see that it asked a clear 
question when the policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  
whether a policy was offered. And we check whether the informant has acted carelessly or 
deliberately in making the non-disclosure. 
Mr W took out his policy though  a comparison site. I can see that he was asked a clear 
question about  whether  the car had been modified in any way. Mr W told us that he knew his 
car had been  modified. He said he hadnt made  these. But he said if he entered  Yes then 
he couldnt proceed with his application.  So he answered No. So I think Mr W was asked  a 
clear question which he answered incorrectly.
Mr W said he then called  One Insurance  and he told it about the modifications and he was 
told that these  were OK. But One Insurance said it didnt have any record of this call. Ive 
seen screenshots  of searches for calls from the numbers that Mr W has provided and Im 
satisfied that One Insurance didnt  receive  this call from him. 
Ref: DRN70304802One Insurance then sent Mr W his insurance  documents which asked him to check them  for 
accuracy. Mr W said he didnt read these, but I cant hold One Insurance responsible  for 
that. In the documents  is a list of the questions Mr W answered  when he took out his policy.  
These include whether  the car had been modified in any way with Mr Ws answer No. So I 
think Mr W had the opportunity to check and correct this at the time, but I cant  see that he 
did this.
When the policy renewed, One Insurance asked Mr W in the renewal documents if the car 
had been modified in any way. But Mr W didnt  then disclose the modifications which  hes 
told us he knew had been made  to the car.
One Insurance has provided us with its underwriting guidelines. I can see in these that it 
doesnt offer cover  at all for cars with any modifications. 
So I think Mr W made a qualifying  misrepresentation under the relevant legislation. He knew  
his car had been modified, but answered a clear question about this incorrectly.  This would 
affect whether  One Insurance would offer cover. So I think  One Insurance was entitled to 
void the policy, as it wouldnt have offered it if Mr W had answered correctly.  I also think its 
entitled to decline  the claim and, as Mr W deliberately  answered  incorrectly, I think  its 
entitled to retain the premiums. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7030480