K820x#14Complaint
Miss S complains  that Santander  UK Plc blocked and then closed her account. And wont 
return money held in the account to her.
Background
Miss S had a current account with Santander. On 7 November 2018, £14,000 cash  was paid 
into the account. Within a couple of hours Miss S made two faster  payments of £7,000  out of 
her account.
Following these payments, Santander  decided to review how Miss S was operating  her 
account. Whilst it conducted its review the bank blocked her account. During the review  the 
bank noted Miss Ss account had a lot of cash deposits and faster payment credits from 
different sources,  which did not appear to be in line with Miss Ss income. 
Santander asked  Miss S about the payments in November 2018. Miss S told the bank that 
one of the £7,000 payments went to a friends  account to pay for a house  refurbishment. 
Miss S also told the bank  other large credits into her account were  from a friend, who I will 
refer to as Miss B, who owed her money.  
Following its review, Santander decided to close Miss Ss account  with 30 days  notice. And 
asked her to provide proof  of her entitlement to the closing  balance  of her account, which  
was just under £18,000. Miss S gave Santander  copies of Miss Bs bank  statement to show 
where some of the money  had come from which had been  paid into her account.  Santander  
reviewed the information  Miss S had provided. But it wasnt  satisfied it showed Miss S was 
entitled to the money. And told her they were  concerned Miss S was using her account for 
fraud. 
Miss S wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to our service  where  
an investigator considered it. The investigator asked Miss S questions about  the origin of the 
£14,000 which had been paid into her account.  And to provide  more information about how 
she was using her account.  Miss S told the investigator the following:
she and her brother were both due to be married and the money  in her account was 
money theyd saved to pay for the weddings
her brother put money in her account  to pool funds to pay for their weddings
the money in her account was made up of her wages  that shed saved and cash her 
parents had around the house
the £14,000 cash payment paid into her account on 7 November 2018, was from 
jewellery her mum had sold to a family  friend to pay for the weddings
A £6,000  cash payment on 15 October 2018,  was from her parents and was due to 
be put towards the weddings
Miss B had paid £4,000 into her account  on 16 November 2018,  which  was a 
repayment of a loan shed made to Miss B in 2017
The investigator asked  Miss S to provide evidence to support what  shed said about the 
origins of the funds,  including invoices of the jewellery which  had been  sold.  Miss S provided 
a handwritten receipt showing  a number of items of jewellery had been sold on 6 November 
2018, for £14,000,  at a price of £25 per gram.  Miss S wasnt able to provide any evidence of 
wedding plans and said her wedding was cancelled due to not being  able to access  the 
funds in her account.  Burt her brothers wedding went  ahead. She also provided a statement 
Ref: DRN74475372from Miss B supporting what shed said about the loan payments. And a statement from her 
brother, who I will refer to as Mr U, who said hed paid £1,500  into 
Miss Ss account on 16 October 2018, as theyd agreed to save together  in one bank 
account.
Miss S also provided a statement from a female, who I will refer to as Miss K, which  said:
she was Miss Ss aunt 
Miss K had lent Miss S £5,000 and shed repaid the loan on 24 September 2018
Miss K explained that she was organising the weddings of Miss S and Mr U and the 
money was to pay for expenses
Miss S had sent £4,800  to her account for Mr Us wedding, followed by two payments 
of £7,000 on 7 November  2018. 
The investigator asked  Miss S for more  information  about what shed said  in particular 
evidence that Miss Ss mother  had owned the jewellery which had been sold,  such as 
valuations of the jewellery, wedding expense invoices and evidence shed lent money  to her 
friend, Miss B.
In response Miss S provided a different explanation  about the money which had been paid 
into her account. In summary,  she said she was asked by her employer to pay £14,000 into 
her account  and make two transfers of £7,000 to accounts belonging  to her employer. 
Miss S said her employer  also asked  her to pay £6,000 cash into her account  on 15 October  
2018. She said she doesnt  know  where  the £20,000 came from or the purpose of the 
transfers. But said she was worried shed lose her job if she didnt do what  her employer 
asked. Miss S also said the letter shed provided  from her aunt, Miss K, was actually written 
by her employer, and was fabricated. And shed since left her job.
The investigator provided all the information shed obtained from Miss S to Santander. The 
bank reviewed the information, but it wasnt satisfied that it showed Miss S was entitled  to 
the money in her closed account.
The investigator looked at everything  Miss S had provided and said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong  when it reviewed and closed  Miss Ss account. But she said Miss S was 
entitled to the remaining balance on the account.  She thought Santander  didnt have 
sufficient evidence that the funds  originated  from fraud. Santander disagreed.  But said that it 
would review things  if Miss S provided  further evidence  surrounding  the origin of the funds.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter came  to me to decide. After  reviewing all the 
evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In my provisional decision I 
reached a different conclusion to the investigator. I said as follows:
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet  when  providing accounts to customers.  These obligations 
are ongoing,  so do not only pertain  to when an account is opened. To comply  with its 
obligations Santander may need to review  an account  and/or  restrict its customers access. 
If Santander didnt  comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
In order to meet these  requirements Santander  is entitled to ask a customer  for more 
information about how they use their account, including  payments which are made into and 
from an account. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role 
is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back  in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt  happened.
Ref: DRN74475373Having looked  at all the evidence, I dont  believe  it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Miss Ss account and ask her for information about the money which  
had been paid into her account and how she was operating the account. Santander has 
explained that this was its standard  procedure, and I accept that it was. 
From looking  at how Miss S normally  operated her account, the £14,000 and £6,000  
payments were quite  unusual, especially  given  how Miss S had been operating her account  
and what shes told us and the bank about  her income, which  was just over £1,100 per 
month. Santander wanted to be sure about where the money  had come  from and that Miss S 
was entitled to the funds. And I think thats  reasonable. Based on how Miss S was operating 
her account  and all the information Ive looked  at, I can understand why Santander had 
concerns. Miss S was receiving high value payments into her account from different sources 
and moving money  out of her account on an almost daily basis. So, whilst I accept this 
caused Miss S inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated her unfairly  when it blocked her 
account. And asked  her for information.  
Having seen the evidence provided by both parties, Im not currently of the same  opinion as 
investigator that Santander  should release the closing balance to Miss S. Santander is within 
its right to withhold  funds it suspects of originating from fraud and investigate their origin.  I 
dont think its unfair  or unreasonable for Santander to continue  withholding  the accounts 
remaining balance from Miss S. I say this for the following reasons:
Miss S has supplied inconsistent testimony as to the provenance of the money  paid 
into and out of her account  she initially claimed that the £14,000  was from the sale 
of jewellery belonging to her mother.  And the £6,000 payment was from her parents 
from money they had around the house.  She stated both payments were made with 
the intention of paying for Miss Ss and Mr Us weddings
Miss S supplied documentation (a letter from Miss K, jewellery invoice) supporting 
this testimony, which she has now confirmed was fabricated 
Miss S initially said that the first £7,000 payment on 7 November 2018 was to a friend 
to pay for a house refurbishment. Miss S then told our investigator that the two 
£7,000 were payments to her aunt Miss K, to pay for her and Mr Us wedding  
arrangements
more recently Miss S has said Miss K isnt her aunt and is in fact her employer
Miss S stated  her brothers wedding took place, but her wedding  didnt. And the 
money in her account was jointly saved by her and Mr U for this purpose but Ive not 
seen any evidence  to support this
Miss S hasnt been able to show the money  Miss B paid into her account was 
repayment for money shed previously lent to Miss B, such  as a bank statement from 
her account or any loan agreements
Miss S says that she and her brother  used to pool money to save. However,  this isnt 
supported by the account activity, for example the £1,500.00  bill payment on 19 
October 2018 was to her brother, but I note that Miss S received the £1,500.00 from 
her brother  on 16 October 2018, and this was seemingly returned to his account, 
referenced cash on 19 October  2018. This doesnt  support what  Miss S has said 
about her savings arrangement with her brother
Miss S has received several  payments from Miss K, her employer, referenced loans, 
but hasnt provided any loan agreements  to support the payments. And I find it 
unusual that Miss S would be lending her employer money
Ref: DRN74475374So, when I weigh everything up, Im not currently minded  to conclude that Santander has 
acted inappropriately  in how it dealt with Miss Ss account over the period the account has 
been blocked. And I dont consider that theres  any basis  on which I can fairly and 
reasonably require Santander  to release the funds to Miss S. However,  if Miss S is now able 
to provide further information about  the funds and how she was operating  her account, I 
would expect the bank to review it.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Ss account. Its generally for banks to decide  
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking  facilities to any 
particular customer.  Unless theres a very good  reason to do so, this service  wont  usually 
say that a bank  must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer  who has had 
their account  closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing  an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed  Miss Ss account with 30 days notice. In my view that was reasonable 
given the banks concerns about how Miss S was operating the account. So, it was entitled  to 
close the account as it has already done.  
So subject to any further representation or evidence from Miss S or Santander my 
provisional decision was not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S didnt accept  my provisional decision. But didnt  provide any further evidence for me 
to consider. Santander didnt respond. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions or comments  for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained  in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7447537