K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that The Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unreasonably declined  a claim 
on their legal expenses  insurance policy. All references to Lloyds include its agents. 
Background
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs A exchanged contracts with the potential  buyers  of their home. 
The buyers later tried to rescind the contract  on the basis that the property information form 
(TA6) had been  completed fraudulently or recklessly. They subsequently issued a claim in 
the High Court for the return of their deposit, damages and costs. 
Mr and Mrs A made a legal expenses  claim to Lloyds to defend the claim and pursue a 
counter-claim against  the buyers. Lloyds declined the claim because it said the policy 
excludes claims where theres  been an allegation of dishonesty. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Lloyds.  They said that the buyers  allegations were  unjustified, 
and would be easily defended. They argued that an allegation of fraud or recklessness 
wasnt the same as an allegation  of dishonesty,  and presented case law which they felt 
supported this. They highlighted that only one of the 32 issues  to be decided by the Court 
made reference to dishonesty. And they added that the exclusion was unreasonably broad 
and hadnt been brought  to their attention. 
Lloyds agreed  to pay Mr and Mrs A £100  for some claims handling delays, but it didnt 
change its decision on their claim, so they complained to us. Our investigator thought Lloyds 
could rely on the exclusion  and didnt  uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs A didnt agree so I 
need to reach a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs As policy contains an exclusion which says claims relating to or arising from an 
allegation of dishonesty arent  covered. In this case, the buyers  have said they were  induced 
into buying the property on the basis of information that Mr and Mrs A knew  to be untrue. 
I can therefore see why Lloyds decided the exclusion was relevant. 
Having said that, Lloyds seems to accept this is a broad  exclusion,  and that most legal 
claims will involve  some kind of allegation  of dishonesty. So its said that in deciding whether 
to apply it, it will consider whether the allegation  of dishonesty  applies  directly to the legal 
claim being made. Ive therefore thought carefully about whether thats the case here. 
Mr and Mrs A have  highlighted that the buyers  were  only entitled to rescind the contract on 
the basis of a fraudulent or reckless  error  or omission. And theyve sent us case  law which  
they feel shows it isnt necessary  to establish dishonesty to prove  fraud or recklessness. 
So they feel that although there is an allegation  of dishonesty, it isnt actually material to the 
legal claim being  made  against them. 
Ref: DRN73978812But in a civil case about fraudulent or reckless  misrepresentation, its necessary to establish 
that someone intended to behave dishonestly. But this doesnt mean they had to actively 
know they were being dishonest. Rather its enough for them to have made a statement 
without believing  it was true, even if they didnt necessarily  know  it was false. 
In this case, the buyers alleged that answers given  on the TA6 form were  false,  inaccurate 
and misleading  within the express knowledge of {Mr and Mrs A}, and were  therefore made  
fraudulently, or with recklessness  as to whether they were true or false.  As the allegation of 
dishonesty will be central to this claim,  I think its fair for Lloyds to apply the exclusion. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs A strongly deny these  allegations,  and say they had no intention 
of misleading the buyers. But whether the buyers are likely  to be successful in proving the 
allegation isnt relevant.  My role is to decide whether Lloyds has applied the terms of
Mr and Mrs As policy fairly. As their policy doesnt  cover claims arising  from allegations of 
dishonesty, I think  Lloyds has been able to show that the exclusion applies to their claim.
Mr and Mrs A have  also said that the exclusion  should have been brought to their attention. 
It doesnt appear in the policy summary  theyve  provided. But I dont think  it needed to as it 
isnt a significant or unusual exclusion by the regulators definition. And for clarity, the 
exclusion does appear in the full policy wording.  
I appreciate this has been a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs A. I can see that they had 
already sold many of their belongings with the intention of moving abroad once the purchase 
of their home had been finalised. But for the reasons Ive given, I think Lloyds, as their 
insurer, has dealt with their claim fairly  and in line with their policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against The Society  
of Lloyds. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 November  2019. 
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7397881