K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about his credit card account with MBNA Limited.  He is unhappy he couldnt 
continue his promotional  rate without  incurring interest.
background
Mr A had a 0% credit card with MBNA. As the offer was running  out he contacted MBNA for 
a new deal. But MBNA refused to offer him a similar rate even though it offered them to new 
customers. Mr A said he couldnt find another lender to transfer his balance  to. And it would 
take 30-60  days  for MBNA to reduce his credit limit so he could  look elsewhere. This meant 
he would  have to pay interest to MBNA  before he could make a transfer.
When Mr A received a letter from MBNA saying itd resolved his complaint he thought  that 
meant his 0% deal would continue. But his next statement showed that wasnt  the case. So 
he feels MBNA misled him to get more  interest. Mr A wants a refund of the interest  charged  
after his 0% rate ended. And he wants compensation for being  misled after he was told his 
complaint had been resolved. Mr A is also unhappy  the Financial Conduct Authority allows 
these practises to happen.
MBNA said Mr A had been  told his balance would revert to the standard  rate when his offer 
expired. And the information was also shown on each statement as well as the terms and 
conditions of the account. MBNA said it was unable to offer him a lower rate. But it had 
offered to lower his credit limit so Mr A could apply elsewhere.  It would take time to register 
on his credit file so Mr A had declined the offer. 
Mr A wasnt  satisfied with MBNAs response.  So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could understand  Mr As disappointment. But he 
explained our service couldnt  look into MBNAs decision to offer preferential rates to new 
customers. 
He could see the terms and conditions of Mr As account stated any remaining balance 
would become payable at the standard interest  rate when the promotional period ended. So 
he couldnt say MBNA  had done  anything wrong  by charging the standard rate after Mr As 
0% period  had finished. He felt MBNA had made it clear it couldnt  take any further steps  to 
resolve the matter.  But that didnt mean itd decided to allow  Mr As account to remain on a 
0% rate.
Mr A didnt agree. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  He knew he would have 
to pay off or refinance  his balance at the end of the period. But hes unhappy  he was forced 
into paying £190 interest. And he was told his complaint had been resolved   not rejected. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr As 0% credit card deal ended he couldnt  transfer the balance because  of the size 
of his credit  limit. And MBNA  wouldnt offer him a lower interest rate even  though it offered 
them to new customers.  After Mr A spoke  to MBNA  he thought his complaint had been  
resolved and that meant he was going  to continue at a 0% rate. But instead  his minimum 
payment doubled  and he was charged interest.  
Ref: DRN78577502Mr A is very unhappy with the position hes been put in. So Ive looked carefully at everything  
Mr A and MBNA have  said.
As our investigator has explained its not the role of this service to look at MBNAs business  
practises or the business  decisions it makes. Thats the role of its regulator,  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Our role is to see if MBNA has made any mistakes.  And if so 
what it needs to do to put things right.
Mr A says he was aware his 0% interest rate period  was coming to an end. And the terms 
and conditions of his account  and the monthly  statements say any remaining balance will be 
charged at the standard interest rate. So I cant say MBNA did anything  wrong  by charging 
the standard rate when  Mr As promotional period ended.
I realise Mr A is unhappy he couldnt transfer his balance  elsewhere because his credit limit 
with MBNA  was affecting his credit file. And if he wanted to reduce his credit limit he would 
have to pay at least  a months  interest  to MBNA before the reduction was registered  and he 
could transfer  his balance elsewhere.  
Mr A feels  he should be able to update his credit  file immediately. But, as Ive explained, 
thats not something our service can consider. I can only look at whether MBNA did anything 
wrong. And after the 0% period ended it followed the terms of its agreement with Mr A 
correctly.
I can also understand Mr As frustration  after he had discussed the matter with MBNA.  He 
received a message saying the matter had been  resolved. And he thought that meant he 
would continue on a 0% interest rate. But Ive looked at the discussion between  MBNA  and 
Mr A. And I dont  think  MBNA did anything to mislead him. 
It said it would close the complaint  because it couldnt take any further  steps in this instance. 
And I havent seen  anything to suggest MBNA told Mr A it would allow his account to remain  
at the 0% rate. It made it clear over the telephone it couldnt let the rate continue.
MBNA has said it will review the wording it used when it told Mr A the matter had been 
resolved. And I think thats a reasonable response. But I think MBNA made it clear that it 
wouldnt continue Mr As 0% rate or move  his balance to a lower  rate.
I do understand Mr As frustration that he was unable to smoothly  transfer his balance  
elsewhere without  attracting  any interest  charges. But the role of this service is to see if 
MBNA has done anything wrong. And I cant say that it has. 
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr A has said.  But I think MBNA acted within  the terms 
and conditions of the account.  And I think its communications  with Mr A made it clear it 
couldnt continue  his promotional rate. So I cant say MBNA  has acted unfairly. And I wont  
be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Ref: DRN78577503Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7857750