K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1999  and again  in 2002. For ease I will refer to the business  as 
Halifax. 
background
Mrs B took out a PPI policy when she applied for a loan in 1999 and again  in 2002. She paid 
a monthly amount for each policy. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs B 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why below.  
Ive looked first at whether Halifax made it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice, and 
obtained her consent, in taking out the policies. I think Halifax made Mrs B aware  that she 
had a choice about buying  each of the PPI policies, and she chose to take them. Ill explain 
why I say this. Halifax has provided  me with a loan application and loan agreement for each 
of the sales. On each  of the loan application  forms there are two separate  boxes available 
for the customer to sign. One says Yes, I would like to take advantage of the peace of mind 
offered by Personal  Loan Repayments Insurance in the event that I am unable to work  due 
to involuntary unemployment,  accident  or sickness.  And another says No, I do not wish to 
take advantage of Personal Loan Repayments Insurance.  I understand that I will be 
responsible for making my repayments  each month if I am unable  to work. Each box 
requires its own signature and Mrs B has signed in the Yes box to take out PPI.  So it 
seems that Mrs B agreed to take the PPI and she did so knowing this was something  she 
could say No to.
On the loan agreements theres a Yes and a No box indicating  whether PPI is required 
next to the question, Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance?  The Yes  box 
has a cross  in it for both loans. Although this has been printed on the application, I think  its 
likely this was selected following  a discussion with the advisor  and after Mrs B had agreed to 
take the PPI. I say this because all of the individual information about the loan and policy  
including costs, interest rates and loan term is also printed  on the form. So I think its more 
likely that Halifax made Mrs B aware  that she had a choice and she chose to take the policy 
on each occasion,  even though she may not remember that now,  many  years later. 
Both parties  agree that Halifax  recommended  the policies to Mrs B. This meant Halifax 
needed to take reasonable steps  to make sure the policies were  suitable for Mrs B. Based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  the recommendations were  right 
for her. I explain why below.
Mrs B was eligible for the cover,  and she doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions  from or limitations  to the policies. Mrs B has told us that her sick pay in 
1999 and 2002 would  have only lasted at her full rate of pay for six months. And Mrs B told 
Ref: DRN70989512us that she may have  had some help from her savings, her family  and that she could have  
used some of the equity  in her property. Ive noted  that Mrs B hadnt wanted to use these 
means to reduce the loans she was taking out. In any event, the PPI policies would have 
paid out in addition to these other  means, and would have helped further protect her savings 
and equity as well as reducing her reliance on any help her family  may have been in a 
position to provide. Notwithstanding the above, the policies  could  have paid out on a 
successful claim  for up to 60 months if Mrs B was too ill to work  and for up to 12 months if 
she lost her job. So I think the policies could have  been useful to Mrs B. 
The cost of each  policy appears to have  been  comparable to other similar policies at the 
time and appears  to have been affordable.  
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policies were suitable for Mrs B.
As well as checking the policies were right for Mrs B, Halifax also had to give her clear  
enough information about the policies so she could  decide if she wanted to buy them.  Its 
possible the information Halifax gave her was not as clear  as it shouldve been.  However,  for 
the same  reasons I think the policies were  suitable, Im not persuaded better information 
wouldve made a difference  to Mrs Bs decision  to take out the PPI policies.
 my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint and make  no award against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019. 
Douglas Sayers                       
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7098951