K820x#14complaintMr and Mrs M complain  Allcover  Insurance Brokers  Ltd (Allcover) failed to check  they had 
the appropriate level of cover for the valuables in their home.
backgroundIn August  2014,  Mr and Mrs M contacted  Allcover  to ask that it provide a quote for insurance 
to cover their home contents. They provided Allcover with a copy of their existing home 
insurance documents, with another provider, and asked for a quote on the same  basis. After 
a quote was provided, contents cover was arranged with a new provider that Ill refer to as Z.
In 2015, prior to the policy  with Z ending, Allcover contacted Mr and Mrs M. It told them  that 
it had found a more competitive quote for cover. Mr and Mrs M were provided with 
information about the policy to review and decide  if they wanted  to change their contents 
cover from Z. Mr M contacted Allcover to confirm that they wanted to change to the new 
provider, which Ill refer to as Y, when their policy with Z ended.  This was done.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs M were sent documents for the following years insurance.  The policy 
was to remain with Y. After checking  the documents, Mrs M realised she wasnt  listed on the 
policy and asked to be added. She was added and the policy  was then set up to continue for 
another year.
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs M were sadly the victims of a burglary. A number of their 
contents were stolen and so they contacted Allcover to register a claim. Ys details were 
provided to Mr and Mrs M to register their claim.
During the claim, it was noted  by Ys loss adjuster  that Mr and Mrs M had a significant 
amount of valuables. These had been  independently  valued  and the total value of 
Mr and Mrs Ms valuables that had been  stolen  was determined to be around £52,000. Y 
noted that Mr and Mrs M had said they only had £20,000 worth  of valuables, including  a ring 
that was listed  on the policy valued  at £9,000. Y said that Mr and Mrs M didnt have sufficient 
insurance to cover all their valuables. Because of this it said it would pay a total of 
£20,945.99.
Mr and Mrs M were  understandably unhappy  with this and complained to Allcover. They  said 
they were never advised to review their level of cover and that the ring was listed separately 
and shouldnt be included  within the £20,000  valuables limit. 
Allcover looked into their concerns.  It said it was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to let it know  
if the level of cover  in place needed to be amended. It said it was clear  that the ring was 
included within the overall valuables limit, rather than listed as a separate  item. 
They also said that theyve never  received the policy  terms and conditions  document,  and 
that it didnt provide any support throughout the claim.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
what had happened. She felt that Allcover had acted fairly and so didnt uphold  the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN79010512Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Allcover to take any further  steps to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Firstly I wanted to say how sorry I am to hear of the burglary that took place at Mr and Mrs 
Ms home. 
Whilst this complaint relates to a claim made under Mr and Mrs Ms 2017/18  policy,  I think  
the way the policy was set up is vitally  important.  The original policy Allcover sourced for 
Mr and Mrs M was based on policy documents provided to it by them. 
Allcover asked Mr and Mrs M to provide  a valuation for two items of jewellery.  Once this was 
done, cover  was put in place with Z. The documents from Z show  the two items 
Mr and Mrs M had valued listed as specified  items at £9,000  and £2,500. 
Prior to the policy renewing in 2015,  Allcover wrote to Mr and Mrs M advising of cheaper 
cover with Y. It said Y would provide £80,000  contents cover.  Allcover sent Mr and Mrs M a 
copy of the quotation documents and asked they check the cover met their requirements.  
The documents set out that general contents  sum insured was £55,000, the antiques  and art 
sum insured was £5,000,  and the valuables sum insured was £20,000. A diamond ring was 
listed as being  valued at £9,000. Mr and Mrs M advised Allcover  to proceed with the new 
insurance and cover  was started in August 2015. 
The policy has continued  to renew  each year with Mr and Mrs M being sent the quotation 
documentation. In 2016, this showed  the general  contents sum insured had increased to 
£56,700. The antiques  and arts sum insured and the valuables sum insured stayed at the 
same level as the previous year. At the 2017 renewal, the general contents sum insured had 
increased again with all other amounts  remaining the same.
Mr and Mrs M say that Allcover never  advised  them to check  their sums insured  were 
adequate. Allcover  said it sent the quotation  documents to Mr and Mrs M to check,  and the 
amounts are clearly  listed on those  documents. I do think it was clear  that the cover  that was 
being provided with Y was for £80,000,  and Im satisfied the quotation  makes  it clear how 
that £80,000 is broken down, with £20,000  cover for valuables.
This level of cover may have been  sufficient when the policy first started,  but if new 
valuables are purchased,  the overall value  of all items will rise. Equally, its common  for 
valuable items to increase in value over the years. This was shown  when Mr and Mrs M had 
items valued for the purpose of insurance that had increased since  they were  purchased.  Mr 
and Mrs M therefore had a responsibility to check the value of the items they owned, and 
ensure that the £20,000 cover being offered each year was sufficient.
The terms and conditions  of the policy do make reference to the need to check  the sums 
insured were  adequate. Allcover says it only sent the policy terms and conditions to Mr and 
Mrs M when  the policy first started but they could be requested each  year if required. Mr and 
Ref: DRN79010513Mrs M say they were never sent the terms and conditions document, and didnt receive  
renewal reminders in 2017/18.
I dont think receiving the terms and conditions booklet each  year wouldve alerted 
Mr and Mrs M of the need to review their valuable contents. And, even if they didnt receive 
the renewal documentation originally sent to them, they did receive  a copy of it prior to the 
policy renewing. 
The only thing that was queried  at this time was the name on the policy and so it appears Mr 
and Mrs M were happy with the sums insured,  including the cover  for valuables. The 
alternative to this is that they hadnt  reviewed the document to check  the cover  they had was 
sufficient for their needs. Either way, I cant say that this is Allcovers  fault.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that Allcover didnt provide them with assistance throughout the 
claim. Ive seen nothing  that suggests that Mr and Mrs Ms contract  with Allcover  included  
claims handling, and in any event, I think the support offered by Allcover when Mr and Mrs M 
contacted it was sufficient.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Allcover  Insurance  Brokers  
Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7901051