K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to recover his funds after he was 
scammed. 
background
Mr R was approached  by individuals claiming  to be from two separate  organisations who 
were able to facilitate the sale of some shares Mr R had, at a considerable mark up. After 
some discussion, Mr R received documentation  for the sale of the shares and felt 
comfortable with the process. He paid the organisation an up-front  fee of £4,691  to an 
international bank account via online banking on 11 November 2014. 
Mr R began to get suspicious of the organisation when they sent him communications  
intended for other another  client. On 30 November 2014, he came to the realisation that he 
had been the victim of a scam and reported this to the Financial Conduct Authority. He then 
reported the scam to Lloyds on 3 December  2014.  
Mr Rs personal  bank  account manager  informed  him that they were in communication  with 
the scammers bank and that he was arranging for the funds to be recovered. A short  time 
later, his personal  bank account  manager  changed  roles and Mr R didnt hear about his 
complaint again.  Mr R contacted Lloyds in February  2015. At that point, he was informed 
that no funds could be recovered from the scammers account.   
Mr R referred  his complaint to us in February  2018. He felt the time taken  for Lloyds  to act 
on the recovery of his funds after his personal  banking manager left led to him losing the 
funds. Lloyds had offered  him £200 compensation in recognition  of any incorrect information 
his personal banking manager  gave  him about  getting the funds returned, but Mr R declined  
this. 
Lloyds say there is no record in Mr Rs contact notes of the issue  being  raised  in December 
2014, and that when  Mr R contacted them in 2015, they acted quickly to try and recover his 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  Unfortunately,  the beneficiary bank responded to say they 
could not retrieve  the funds. Our adjudicator investigated and felt Lloyds  had done  what they 
could when Mr R contacted them in February  2015, and that without  knowing what 
communications his personal banking manager  had with the beneficiary bank, we cant know  
if the funds couldve  been recovered in December 2014. But that due to the fact Mr R 
reported the scam over three weeks after the transfer, its unlikely any of the funds were 
remaining at that time to be recovered.
Mr R disagreed with this, he still felt the delay from Lloyds is the cause of his funds not being  
returned and wanted either a refund of his £4,691 or a compensation payment  closer to four 
figures. As an informal agreement couldnt  be reached,  the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
Ref: DRN74464972codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  by the 
FCA in recent years  and by the British Bankers  Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances ). And it should look to 
identify and help prevent  transactions - particularly unusual or out of character transactions  
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr R when he made an international payment  of £4,691, or whether  it should have done 
more than it did.
Both Mr R and Lloyds agree that Mr R authorised the payment himself, meaning  Lloyds had 
an obligation  to follow Mr Rs instruction and process the transfer. As explained above, there 
are some circumstances in which Lloyds should  reasonably have had a closer  look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the transfer. To consider this, Ive looked at Mr Rs bank 
statements leading up to the transfer. 
Mr R hadnt made an international transfer recently  prior to the payment of £4,691, but I 
dont think this alone would be enough to say the payment was out of character for Mr R. I 
can see that he had previously made a few larger transfers and bill payments, one for 
significantly more than the payment in question. On balance, I dont think  this payment was 
unusual enough  to say Lloyds system should  have  flagged  it for additional questions and 
checks. So, I think Lloyds  acted reasonably in the circumstances when it sent the payment. 
When a scam complaint  is raised in relation  to an international transfer, we would expect 
Lloyds to contact  the beneficiary bank within a reasonable amount of time. Once Lloyds 
notifies the beneficiary  bank, all they are able to do is request a return of the funds, and this 
Ref: DRN74464973would be on a best endeavours basis. Meaning theres  no guarantee that the funds would 
be returned. Typically, the beneficiary bank would contact the account  holder who received 
the funds to ask if the funds should be returned. Lloyds doesnt have any control  over the 
actions of the beneficiary bank, but we would expect them to chase them  for a response.  
Mr R has said that he first notified Lloyds of the scam on 3 December 2014, but there is 
nothing on Lloyds contact  notes to show this. Its possible his account manager  didnt log 
anything onto the system,  though  I would  have expected there to be some trace of this. Mr R 
has said his account  manager was in communication with the manager  of the international 
bank account  and that he said he was arranging for the funds to be returned. Mr R has 
provided an e-mail from the beneficiary bank asking  him to click a link to view an encrypted 
message. He says this is proof that his account manager  was communicating with the 
beneficiary bank  and that he had funds remaining. Unfortunately,  Mr R no longer has access 
to the encrypted e-mails  within  the link. 
Its not possible for me to know exactly what Mr Rs account manager spoke with the 
beneficiary bank  about,  because  Mr R can no longer access the encrypted  e-mails. This isnt 
unreasonable considering  the event  occurred around six years ago. But I accept  its possible  
Mr Rs account manager didnt follow the correct  process of logging this issue  and 
requesting a return of the funds in the correct manner. So, Ive considered  whether its likely  
Mr Rs funds would have  been returned, had the correct process been followed. Ive based  
this on my own experience of scam  complaints as well as the evidence  on file from when we 
know the beneficiary bank was contacted in February  2015.  
Mr R sent the funds on 11 November 2014 and says he contacted his account manager 
three weeks later to report the scam.  From  what Ive seen, typically scammers  will remove 
the funds from the account as soon as they are able to, often  within hours of it crediting the 
account. So, it seems more likely to me that by the time Mr R reported the scam, none of his 
funds would have  been left to be returned  from the account. 
Ive seen the correspondence  between  Lloyds and the beneficiary bank from February 2015 
onwards. On 4 February, Lloyds requested that the beneficiary bank return Mr Rs funds. 
The beneficiary bank  responded  on 10 February  to let Lloyds know  they were  trying to 
contact the owner  of the account  but had not yet had a response from them.  Lloyds then 
chased the beneficiary bank on 20 February, 6 March  and 23 March. Finally,  on 27 March, 
the beneficiary bank  said they had been  trying  to contact the owner  of the account  but had 
not had a response so they could  not assist further. Considering this, it seems to me that 
had Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank three months earlier, the result would likely have 
been the same. That the owner of the account would not have  responded to requests for a 
return of the funds. 
Mr R has unfortunately been  the victim of a sophisticated and convincing  scam and Im sorry 
that hes gone through this experience. Having carefully considered  all the information 
available to me, I think it was reasonable that Lloyds system  didnt flag the payment of 
£4,691 as suspicious in this instance. So, I dont think it needed to do further  checks  or ask 
Mr R questions before releasing  the payment. And I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt 
follow the correct  process  when Mr R raised  the scam  initially. But on balance, I think  its 
more likely that had the correct process been followed,  the funds still would not have been 
recovered from the beneficiary bank. I note that Lloyds  offered Mr R £200  compensation for 
any incorrect information he was given by his personal account manager,  which  Mr R 
previously declined. I do think  this amount is reasonable  in the circumstances and Lloyds 
Ref: DRN74464974should contact  Mr R directly to arrange  this payment, as I understand  this offer is still 
available.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 November  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7446497