K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Direct Auto 
Finance Insurance Services Ltd (Direct  Auto).
background
Mr S took out a conditional sale agreement with Direct Auto in 2005. At the same time,  he 
bought a PPI policy,  the cost of which was added to his loan and he paid interest  on it. The 
policy would have covered the repayments  on his agreement for up to 12 months at a time 
for unemployment claims, and for as long as Mr S was off work  if he was sick.
Mr S says that he wouldnt have qualified for the policy and the application was doctored by 
sales advisors. Mr S says that the PPI was bundled  up with other insurances so, 
presumably, it wasnt clear what he was buying. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld.  Mr S disagrees,  so his case  
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Direct Auto has provided copies of the documents used in this sale.  I can see from this that 
Mr S received a welcome pack to ready through before he attended  an appointment to apply 
for the credit. The welcome  pack  detailed the types of insurance  available  and made it clear 
they were optional. 
When Mr S attended for his appointment Direct  Auto completed  an assessment of Mr Ss 
demands and needs  and his eligibility  for the insurances. The demands and needs 
statement made a recommendation for PPI, as well as mechanical breakdown  insurance  
and guaranteed asset protection insurance.  It also explained Mr Ss right to cancel any of the 
insurances he chose  to take.  The statement included the wording I have decided  that I wish 
to take up these insurance  products,  followed by a list of the relevant insurance products. Mr 
S signed this form. Mr S also signed  a separate  form - the handover  checklist  to say that 
the finance department  had fully explained  the additional optional  insurance products.
Mr S says it wasnt  clear that he was buying PPI because all the insurances were bundled 
up together. I disagree. Each insurance product was clearly set out with an explanation of 
what it was. And each of them was clearly and separately priced on the finance agreement. I 
agree that the total cost of all the insurances was also shown  but there was a separate  
breakdown too. And the base cost of the PPI (without interest)  was clearly displayed.  
Mr S says that the finance agreement was doctored. He points  to a section of the 
application where personal contacts  are listed. He says he does not recognise  the second  
Ref: DRN74036632of three  listed contacts. Direct Auto says that it does not have any knowledge of the contact 
and that it was not added by Direct Auto.
I accept Mr Ss word that he does not know this contact. But it makes no difference  to his 
case. Mr S doesnt deny  that he signed the credit application or the demands and needs 
statement or the handover checklist. There is no suggestion that any material  element of the 
forms have been  altered,  for example to add PPI where it wasnt  originally agreed.  
I am satisfied that Mr S bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about it. 
Direct Auto gave Mr S a personal recommendation about the PPI. So, it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for him. Mr S says he wouldnt  have  qualified  for 
this PPI. He hasnt explained why he thinks that might have been the case. Looking at Mr 
Ss circumstances  at the time I think the policy was suitable for him.
Mr S was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms which  
might have made it more  difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related 
to existing medical conditions or self-employment. Mr S had only been employed  for two 
months at the time of sale, and he wouldnt  have  been entitled  to claim for redundancy until 
hed been in continuous employment for at least six months. But this was clearly detailed in 
all the paperwork and Mr S signed to say he understood this. This still left 44 months  where 
he could claim for unemployment,  so I think this offered a reasonable period of cover. 
Mr S didnt have much  full sick pay from his employer and the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay he did get until, potentially, the end of the agreement  if Mr S was too 
ill to work.  So, I think it offered a useful benefit to Mr S. Similarly, Mr S wouldnt have been 
entitled to any redundancy pay and he didnt have any other means to meet his repayments 
if he was made redundant. The PPI policy would have paid out for up to 12 months at a time 
for each  claim he made. So, again, I think it offered a useful benefit.
The cost of the PPI was comparable to other similar policies on the market  around the same  
time and although  Mr S wouldnt  have received a proportionate refund if hed cancelled  it 
early, I havent seen any evidence this was something Mr S was planning  to do at the point 
of sale. 
Direct Auto also had to make sure Mr S had all the information he needed  so he could make  
his decision. Its possible Mr S didnt get everything  he ideally should have done. For 
example, although  the cost of the PPI was shown  the credit  agreement didnt detail how 
much hed pay in interest for the PPI. Instead  the interest costs for all the insurances were  
shown together.  But Mr S essentially  had all the cost information he needed  to know  how 
much hed be paying, so I dont  think  the fact there wasnt an individual breakdown of the 
interest costs would have  made a difference to his decision to buy the PPI.
On balance, I dont  think Mr S lost out as a result  of anything Direct Auto did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint, so it follows  that Direct Auto Finance Insurance  Services  
Ltd doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Ref: DRN74036633S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7403663