K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service under her 
HomeCare policy.
background
Mrs E held a HomeCare policy that covered  repairs and an annual  service of her boiler.  
British Gas provided services and dealt with any claims for the policy.  In March 2018 under 
the policy, British  Gas installed a new boiler  and later set up a five-year warranty.
Mrs E complained to British Gas in December 2018 that shed only recently got the hot water 
working properly  and her energy bills had increased. Mrs E said she uses  very little hot 
water. British Gas responded  and said it had sent engineers to fit and examine the boiler and 
they had explained to Mrs E how the boiler  operated. British  Gas offered Mrs E £50 
compensation for its engineers providing conflicting  information at one point.
Mrs E brought her complaint to our service.  She said she had the inconvenience of no hot 
running water for washing-up, a hot shower or bath for eight months. She said she had to 
boil the kettle every day to get hot water to wash up. And she said the £50 compensation 
British Gas offered  is equivalent to two pence  per day and wouldnt compensate her for the 
cost of this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She didnt  think that British 
Gas had made a mistake  by installing the boiler  and the reports  indicated it is working 
properly. She said the engineers who visited Mrs E had given conflicting information.  But she 
thought offering £50 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs E said she wasnt satisfied with the outcome reached by the investigator. She asked that 
an ombudsman review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E said her previous  boiler was old and British Gas said it was inefficient. Mrs E said she 
had been given poor service by British Gas since the replacement  boiler was installed. She 
said she had only had hot bath water for three weeks  and hot water  for washing up for two 
weeks. I have considered her complaint under her HomeCare policy. 
British Gas has provided records summarising  its visits.  From those,  it appears  that following 
the installation  of the new boiler in March 2018  - British Gas didnt visit Mrs E until August 
2018. I think that  having  paid for a new boiler - most people wouldve called British  Gas out 
straightaway if there was a significant problem with the temperature or quantity of hot water.  
And most people wouldve complained if British Gas hadnt visited within a few days.
So, I dont think it likely  that Mrs E had been suffering a significant problem with the 
temperature or quantity of hot water for the intervening period of nearly five months. If she 
had, then I dont  think shed given British Gas an opportunity to fix it.
Ref: DRN77773692After the visit in August, British Gas visited again in the Autumn and December 2018 when 
the problems appear  to have been  resolved. British Gas said these were to do with Mrs Es 
understanding of the operation of the boiler. From what  Mrs E has said,  I think that these 
visits made an improvement to the hot water in the bathroom and kitchen. 
From what  Ive seen, it appears that British Gas sent engineers to Mrs E to top up the water 
pressure and provide advice  on the settings. They advised her about how to work the boiler 
controls and control  the pressure. This is what we would expect British Gas to do and meets 
its requirements under the HomeCare policy. Overall, I think that British Gas treated Mrs E 
fairly.
British Gas has apologised for the conflicting  information to Mrs E from the engineers  who 
visited her home. But because of the reasons given above, I think  offering £50 compensation 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If this amount  hasnt already been  paid to Mrs E 
I recommend that she accepts this compensation from British Gas. If she doesnt and rejects 
this decision, other  options for pursuing her complaint  remain  open to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7777369