K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about issues that hes had with the debit card for his bank account with 
State Bank Of India (UK) Limited and about an overseas payment instruction.
background
Mr M had issues  when  making a withdrawal  from his account at a cash  machine in 
November 2018.  He contacted a branch of State Bank of India and it dealt with the issue. 
But he returned to the branch a week later and said that hed lost his card and that there 
were unauthorised transactions on his account. State Bank of India says that it asked Mr M 
to file a fraud report with the police. He says that he wasnt sent a replacement card or 
cheque book for his account. He also says that he asked State Bank of India to transfer  
money from his overseas  account to other overseas accounts but that the payments werent 
made. He complained to State Bank of India but wasnt satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that 
State Bank of India  shouldve  ordered  Mr M a replacement card when the loss was reported  
to it  and its failure to do so will have  had an impact on him. So he recommended that it 
should pay him £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.  But he said Mr Ms 
request for overseas  payments was sent by State Bank  of India to its overseas parent 
company but the request  was rejected. He said that State  Bank  Of India hadnt done  
anything wrong  as it didnt have access to Mr Ms overseas account so couldnt  have  made 
the transfer and he wouldve had to contact the overseas parent company directly.
State Bank of India  has accepted the investigators recommendation but Mr M has asked for 
his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary,  that hes been 
caused hardship by the bank because of the time spent travelling to it whenever  he needed 
cash and the use of transport and parking problems  and he says that £100 isnt 
reasonable compensation for that. Hes also asked for an assurance from 
State Bank of India  that the replacement  card will be reliable as hed had issues with using it. 
And he says that he had to travel overseas to sort out the problems caused  by the failed 
payment instructions and incurred substantial travel  and other  costs  which  should be 
reimbursed to him. He says that State Bank of India  mustve known that the payment  
instructions wouldnt  be accepted by its overseas parent company and that, when it was 
rejected, State Bank of India didnt inform  him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr M had issues with the debit card on his account. He had problems with a 
withdrawal from a cash machine in November 2018   but State Bank of India dealt with that 
problem and credited the missing money  to his account. But he returned to the branch a 
week later because hed lost his debt card and he said that there  unauthorised  transactions  
on his account.  State  Bank  of India says that it asked Mr M to file a fraud  report  with the 
police and to provide  it with a reference number. That was State Bank of Indias policy  for 
unauthorised transactions and Im not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable  for it to 
require him to make a police report. 
Ref: DRN75510602But Mr M had lost his debit card and I consider  that it wouldve been fair and reasonable for 
it to have ordered a replacement card for him at that time. It didnt do so which caused Mr M 
distress and inconvenience. And I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay him 
£100 to compensate him for that distress  and inconvenience. Mr M says that he should 
receive more compensation than that for the hardship that hes been caused.  But Im not 
persuaded that a higher  award of compensation is justified in these circumstances. State 
Bank of India has agreed to pay £100 compensation to Mr M.
Im unable to require State Bank of India to give any assurances to Mr M about the use of his 
card. If hes having issues with the card that was sent to him he should contact 
State Bank of India  about those issues. If those issues cant be resolved satisfactorily he 
may then be able to make  another complaint to this service. State Bank  of India says that its 
unable to provide  Mr M with a cheque book for his account. 
Mr M requested State Bank of India to make payments from his account with its overseas 
parent company. The overseas parent company is a separate  company and 
State Bank of India  isnt responsible for the actions  of that company  even though there  is a 
close relationship  between them. 
State Bank of India  has provided evidence to show that it sent the payment requests to its 
overseas parent company  but the requests  were  rejected and it was suggested that Mr M 
should make  the transfers using internet banking or by cheque. And it said in an e-mail to its 
overseas parent company  that Mr M had been  made  aware in the branch that his requests 
had been rejected. 
Mr M says that he wasnt told that the requests had been rejected and that he had to travel  
overseas to sort out the problems caused  by the failed payment instructions. He says that he 
incurred substantial travel  and other costs which should be reimbursed to him. But I consider 
that it wouldve  been reasonable for him to have  checked whether the payments had been 
made and if not to make alternative arrangements  for those payments. 
He says that State Bank  of India mustve  known that the payment instructions wouldnt be 
accepted by its overseas parent company but I consider that it was fair and reasonable for it 
to send the payment requests to its overseas parent company. But I dont consider that 
theres enough evidence to show that it knew that the requests  would  be rejected or that it 
has acted incorrectly in connection with those requests.  
I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties  that hes experienced. But Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that it was necessary for him to travel overseas because  of 
errors made by State Bank of India or that it should  be liable for the travel and other costs 
that he incurred.  So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require State Bank of India to reimburse Mr M for those costs or to take any other action  in 
connection with the rejected payment requests.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. And I order 
State Bank Of India (UK) Limited to pay him £100  compensation.
Ref: DRN75510603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7551060