K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only  mortgage  Mr and Mrs M hold with Kensington 
Mortgage Company  Limited. They complain that Kensington failed to tell them  they could 
make over-payments to reduce the capital balance. Kensington has offered £150 in 
compensation. Mr and Mrs M think something  in the region of £10,000 is justified, to 
compensate them the loss of opportunity to reduce their mortgage balance  and switch their 
life policy  to decreasing term assurance.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 31 January 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis 
upon which I considered the complaint should  fairly be resolved. The provisional decision is 
attached to, and forms part of, this final decision.
The main  thrust of Mr and Mrs Ms response is that they said they would like to make a lump 
sum payment in the manner  I suggested. But they wanted to know first how the sum would 
affect their mortgage calculations; a request we asked Kensington to include in its own 
response to the provisional decision. They also asked for more compensation, and 
suggested that Id favoured  Kensington by allowing it more time to reply to the provisional 
decision.
Kensington hasnt  replied  at all. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs M have written  separately to 
Kensington about this, and are unhappy  at receiving a rather generalised reply that doesnt 
address their questions. 
my findings
Ill address a procedural point first. I gave the parties until 14 February 2019 to reply;  and 
both parties asked for more time. I initially said no because I didnt consider that the reasons 
either party gave  justified an extension of time.  
However, for reasons unforeseen at that point, I then found that in any event I wouldnt able 
to review the case before now. I therefore agreed that both Kensington and Mr and Mrs M 
should have a further two weeks (i.e. until 28 February 2019) to make any comments  before 
I looked at the case again. So each party has received what it asked for.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  everything  Mr and Mrs M 
have said in response to the provisional  decision,  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be departing from the provisional 
decision.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms frustration at Kensingtons failure  to respond to the provisional 
decision. I suspect  its more an administrative oversight rather  than anything more sinister  
but the lack of courtesy is nonetheless disappointing. But, as far as determining the 
complaint is concerned, Im afraid Mr and Mrs M are conflating  two separate issues. If they 
accepted I my final decision, it would bind Kensington to accept, retrospectively, a lump sum 
to cover the overpayments they were prevented from making from 2016 on, due to 
Kensington giving their broker  wrong  information.  It wouldnt  and I made this quite clear in 
the provisional decision  commit them to making the lump sum payment. They would be 
free to accept my decision, thus establishing  the principle of the redress  Im awarding,  and 
then decide if they want to make  the payment.
Ref: DRN73295832I understand why they want a calculation to show  how their mortgage will be affected; and I 
get that theyre frustrated Kensington hasnt provided it in the time its had. But that delay  
doesnt prevent  me from formalising my decision  on how the complaint should fairly  be 
resolved. 
This is about  placing Mr and Mrs M as close as possible in the position theyd be in if their 
May 2016 enquiries had been handled  correctly. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that those 
enquiries included  a pre-condition that Kensington recalculate the mortgage  in advance  of 
any overpayments being made. So theres no proper  basis for me to make it a pre-condition 
here.
If Mr and Mrs M accept  the final decision,  itll be binding on them  and Kensington. If they 
then make a lump sum payment to the mortgage  within the time frame Ive stipulated,  
Kensington will be required  to process  it in the manner Ive stipulated.  That is, it must divide 
the sum received by the number of whole months between May 2016 and the date the lump 
sum is received. It should then rework the mortgage  account as if the resulting monthly 
equivalent sum had been  received  each month  since  May 2016.
Its apparent from their submissions that Mr and Mrs M have lost trust in Kensington; a 
feeling only exacerbated by its failure to provide  the calculation they asked for before theyd 
commit to making the lump sum Ive found they should be allowed  to make.  But its not my 
role to restore their trust in their lender; my function  is to decide how their complaint should 
be resolved. And trust cant be restored simply be awarding more compensation.
If Mr and Mrs M dont  have confidence  in Kensingtons ability  to manage their mortgage  as 
they want it, they have  the same option as anyone else who feels that same  way but who 
might not have made a complaint. They can look to see if another  lender will provide a 
mortgage that better suits their needs  and requirements. The alternative  is to put what has 
happened behind  them and look forward without further recrimination over past events.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons sets out above and below, is that I uphold  this complaint. 
In full and final settlement,  I order Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs M £150  compensation; and
subject to Mr and Mrs M paying  it the necessary  lump sum within  three months of the 
date my decision is accepted (assuming it is) re-work Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage from 
May 2016 up to the eventual settlement date as set out in the provisional decision.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73295833CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  an interest-only  mortgage  Mr and Mrs M hold with Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited. They  complain that Kensington failed  to tell them  they could  make over- payments  
to reduce the capital balance. Kensington has offered £150 in compensation. Mr and Mrs M think  
something in the region  of £10,000 is justified,  to compensate them the loss of opportunity to reduce 
their mortgage balance and switch their life policy to decreasing term assurance.
background
When Mr and Mrs M took the mortgage out in 2006, it was originally with a different lender, which Ill 
call G. At the time the mortgage started, G didnt  have the facility to accept over- payments  on 
interest-only mortgages, and the mortgage offer said as much.  That changed  in 2013, and G wrote to 
tell Mr and Mrs M that from now on, it could  accept over-payments.
In November 2015, the mortgage  was transferred to Kensington.  In May 2016,  Mr and Mrs Ms broker 
wrote to Kensington asking if it would  allow  either conversion to repayment or lump-sum over-
payments. Theyd  recently repaid another loan which had freed up in the region of £400 a month. 
Kensington apparently  didnt reply. Mr and Mrs M complained directly  to Kensington in 2018 and it 
confirmed in a final response dated 26 March 2018 that, as stated in the original mortgage offer, over-
payments werent allowed.
When Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to us, they produced the 2013 letter from G to show that 
over-payments were now possible.  The investigator recommended  Kensington pay them  £150 
compensation for the failure to reply to their brokers  enquiry in 2016 and the incorrect response in 
March 2018. Kensington agreed to this, but Mr and Mrs M didnt. Thats  why the complaint  has come 
to me to review.
my provisional  findings
I wont comment on everything Mr and Mrs M have  mentioned; only those  that I consider relevant to 
the outcome. Ill start with a general observation. Whilst the complaint has been with us, Mr and Mrs 
M have said Kensington hasnt supplied statements since taking the mortgage over from G. Weve 
checked that and Kensington  has provided copies  of every statement  its issued since taking the 
mortgage over in 2015.  Weve passed those on to Mr and Mrs M.
As far as the underlying complaint is concerned, Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done 
so, it seems to me this complaint is easier  to resolve that its been made to look.
Theres no doubting Kensington  got things wrong here. It didnt respond to the enquiry from Mr and 
Mrs Ms broker in 2016,  and provided the wrong  response when  they asked directly in 2018. But it 
seems to me Mr and Mrs M didnt  help themselves by not producing the 2013 letter from G sooner. 
They had in their hands evidence that the ability  to make over- payments had been introduced 
between the date the mortgage started and the date it was switched to Kensington. Clearly, 
Kensington had over-looked this, but so too it seems had Mr and Mrs M. In reality, the whole dispute 
could have been resolved  much sooner. 
Where Mr and Mrs M have helped themselves is in keeping aside  the money  that they wanted to use 
to make over-payments. Theyve told us theyve built up a fund in a savings account,  and thats good. 
I say that because Mr and Mrs M say they want to be put in the position  theyd be in if Kensington had 
acted correctly in 2016. They can be, but fairness requires that they pay into their mortgage account  
the money they would have paid to it if Kensington had acted correctly.
Ref: DRN73295834What I am proposing is that if Mr and Mrs M pay a lump sum (the amount to be of their choosing) to 
the mortgage account, Kensington should divide that sum by the number of whole months between 
May 2016 and the date the lump sum is received. It should  then rework the mortgage account  as if 
the resulting monthly  equivalent  sum had been received  each month since May 2016.  
That will reduce the mortgage balance, thus giving Mr and Mrs M the outcome they say theyre  
entitled to. Its also a one-off,  in that Mr and Mrs M will need to make a single  payment no later than 
three months from the date they accept my final decision, assuming that they do that.
Ive no power to tell Mr and Mrs M to pay the lump sum; thats  entirely up to them. But the proposed 
solution to reduce the mortgage balance  is conditional upon them doing so. If they accept  my final 
decision but dont wish to make the lump-sum payment,  Kensington should  still, separately, pay Mr 
and Mrs M £150 compensation.  To be clear  the compensation  payment is not conditional on them  
paying the lump sum to have the mortgage re-worked.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint. In full and final settlement, I intend to order Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited  to:
pay Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation;  and
subject  to Mr and Mrs M paying it the necessary lump  sum within  three months of the date my 
decision is accepted  (assuming it is) re-work Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  from May 2016 up to the 
eventual settlement  date as set out above.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 14 February  2019,  or sooner if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party need 
repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7329583