K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that, because Equiniti Financial Services Limited didnt send her a contract 
note, she assumed her shares hadnt been sold. She decided  a few days later that shed sell 
the shares  because  the price had increased   but then she received confirmation that the 
sale had gone  through.  She wants compensation for the difference in price.
The complaint is brought  on her behalf by her husband, who Ill refer to as Mr C.
background
On 3 August  2018, Mr C placed an online trade on his wifes behalf.  He gave instructions to 
sell 1740 Marks & Spencer shares  at a price  of £2.9445. But he said he received an error  
message saying We regret  that the online dealing  service  is currently unavailable. He 
phoned Equiniti to ask if he could place the trade  over the phone, but he was told no trading 
was possible and that he should try again in 30 minutes.
Mr C said he assumed  the sale hadnt  gone  through and decided to keep the shares. On 
10 August he noticed the price had increased  to £3.06 so thought  he would sell  but on the 
same day his wife received a contract  note confirming  that the shares had been sold on 
3 August.
Equiniti said it was experiencing technical issues  with its website on 3 August, but that the 
sale instruction placed  by Mr C did go through and that he wouldve  received online 
confirmation of the trade. The system  issues did mean there  was a delay in sending  Mrs C 
the contract  note and the Crest transfer form, but that it had acted on her instructions so 
hadnt made an error.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that Mrs C had suffered  any financial  loss because Equiniti had acted on her 
instructions to sell the shares on 3 August.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Equiniti shouldve confirmed the trade  in a timely manner, but Mrs C didnt receive  a 
contract note until seven days after the sale. Equiniti shouldve  contacted  Mrs C  by 
phone or email  to confirm  the trade.
Equiniti wrongly said that we have  acted in accordance with our usual procedures . 
Equiniti didnt give Mrs C any explanation  for the delay when it sent the contract  note.
Mrs C has incurred  a financial loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ref: DRN77209002Mr C wanted to sell his wifes holding of 1,740 Marks & Spencer shares on 3 August 2018 
through her online account. He wouldve received a quote to sell and he mustve accepted 
this. At some  point   most likely after hed accepted the quote   he received the message 
that the dealing service  was unavailable. I can see why he assumed  his instructions hadnt 
been carried out. Equiniti says Mr C wouldve received an online confirmation  of the trade.  
And I accept  he may have  done.  But I think its equally possible  that  because of the 
technical difficulties   he may not have received the usual  online confirmation. Or that he 
didnt see it, because he was focussed on the error  message.
Mr C phoned Equiniti to explain what hed tried to do and that hed received the error 
message. He didnt  give any account  details and didnt ask Equiniti to check if the sale had 
gone through  he assumed it hadnt.
But, despite the technical problems, Equiniti  had carried out the trade.  In doing so it acted on 
Mr Cs instructions. I understand  why Mr C is disappointed at the outcome - because the 
price of the shares  went up over the next few days. But I dont  find Equiniti acted wrongly in 
carrying out the sale so I dont  find theres any obligation on it to compensate Mrs C for the 
subsequent price movement. Ultimately  Mr C sold the shares  at the price  he wanted  to sell 
them at.
Equinitis terms  and condition say it will send  a contract note, no later than the first working 
day after the deal has been executed. So Mrs C wouldve expected to receive a contract 
note by 7 August. When a contract note wasnt received, I can see why she and Mr C 
thought the sale hadnt gone through. And, because by the time they did receive the contract 
note  on 10 August   the share price had risen,  its understandable  that they were 
disappointed. 
But I dont find that the delay in receiving the contract note led to a financial loss for which  
Mrs C should be compensated. Equiniti experienced technical  difficulties which  meant the 
contract note wasnt despatched within  its agreed timescales. Its unfortunate it didnt explain 
this when it sent the contract note, but it did apologise in response to Mrs Cs complaint. Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mrs C, but I dont find that Equiniti is obliged to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7720900