K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in connection with a credit card. Mr S says Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in December 1997.  The policy cost 
no more than 77p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and covered Mr S in the event 
he wasnt working due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. Following a successful claim, 
it would  repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S case.
This is not an easy complaint to decide;  there  is very little documentary evidence  available 
from the time of the sales, more than 20 years  ago. So, I must carefully weigh up the 
evidence available  to me when reaching  my decision. And having  done so, Ive decided the 
policy wasnt mis-sold.
The PPI policy was sold sometime in December 1997 when Mr S took out his card.  Lloyds 
hasnt been able to provide a copy of any application form that Mr S may have completed at 
the time,  so its very difficult for me to know what happened when Mr S took out the credit 
card and PPI policy.
I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr S a choice about  taking  PPI. I also accept it is 
possible Lloyds gave  him the impression  he had to take it out. But it seems  equally likely 
Lloyds gave Mr S the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of his credit card 
application, and that he chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten  in the years  that have 
now elapsed. And the sample credit card application  form that Ive seen and which Lloyds 
says wouldve been the same as the one completed by Mr S says the PPI was optional  a 
customer had to select it if they wanted  to purchase it.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr S complaint) it is more likely than 
not Lloyds presented the policy to Mr S as compulsory or that it didnt tell him about  the 
policy at all, or indicated  that it would assist him overall credit card application. And had he 
chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been  added  to his account  without either  his 
knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected  him to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards, especially as PPI wouldve appeared on his monthly  credit  card statements for 
several years.
Lloyds says it wouldve  recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. He told us he was in good health  and he was employed, so he wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover that can sometimes affect self-employed 
Ref: DRN73951092people or customers with existing medical conditions.  And he seems to have had a need for 
the cover   he had limited  sick pay from his employer  and this policy  wouldve paid out in 
addition to and for longer than his occupational  sick pay.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Mr S information  needs were fully 
met. However, in this case,  I dont  think  Mr S suffered detriment as a result. I say this 
because after careful consideration  Ive decided that, on the balance  of probabilities, even 
had he been fully aware of all aspects  of the policy,  Mr S is still likely to have taken it out. 
Furthermore, the PPI transactions and costs wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card 
statements, and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Mr S, or it became 
unaffordable, he couldve  cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.
Ive taken into account all of Mr S other comments, but these  points dont change  my 
conclusion.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7395109