K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the actions taken by Barclays Bank UK PLC in respect of an account 
he opened on behalf of his daughter. Hes also unhappy with how his complaint was handled  
by Barclays and feels hes now entitled  to compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced and the interest he says hes missed  out on.
background
An investigator has already considered this case. She felt that overall there  had been errors  
made by Barclays and that Mr S would have experienced distress and inconvenience. She 
therefore proposed  that Barclays increase their current offer of compensation from £50 to 
£150. 
Mr S did not agree  with the investigator. He felt hed lost out on about £400 of interest whilst 
Barclays held on to the funds in question. In light of Mr S not accepting the investigators 
view, and Barclays not responding to the view, this complaint  has now been  referred  to me 
for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too agree with the investigators findings, 
and for broadly the same reasons. 
I can see that Mr S opened  a savings account for his daughter and paid in substantial  funds  
from an existing account with another provider. Upon doing  so the account was frozen and 
the funds held by Barclays. Im aware that Mr S attempted to make  enquiries and that 
Barclays explained the matter was under investigation. 
I fully acknowledge  that Barclays has a duty to investigate in such  circumstances and to 
ensure they adhere to strict  guidelines. I note Barclays  asked Mr S to provide  proof  of where  
the funds had come from, to which he duly did. 
Barclays has already  confirmed that errors  did happen. And that there  was confusion as to 
whether the account should  be closed or remain open. Mr S does  seem  to have been told 
incorrect things. And I note Mr S had several  different  complaint  handlers throughout this 
whole process which  Im sure was difficult.  
Im also aware of the timeframes involved in this case. In particular Mr S states he provided  
Barclays with the evidence theyd asked for on 16 November 2018. But the funds in question 
werent released until 11 January 2019.   
Overall I am concerned with the customer service that Mr S received from Barclays. I agree 
with the investigator  that Barclays should increase the level of compensation they pay to Mr 
S to £150. I believe this is sufficient redress in this matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S 
£150 compensation. 
Ref: DRN76320342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7632034