K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about the length of time it took for funds that hed paid into his Revolut Ltd 
bank account  to clear. 
background
On the 30 April 2019 Mr T opened an account with Revolut. On 1 May 2019 he paid in 
£41,000. And on 3 May 2019 he asked  for this to be converted into Euros  which he intended 
to use to buy Bitcoin that day.
Revolut said it needed to verify the source of the funds. And they didnt  clear  until the 9 May 
2019. Mr T then purchased his Bitcoin. But its value  had increased, so he wasnt  able to buy 
as much.  Mr T feels that Revolut should compensate  him £5,400  - the amount of profit he 
says he lost as a result. He says that as Revolut is an online banking service  any checks it 
needed to make should have been done instantly. And there  shouldnt  have been any delay  
in him accessing  his funds. 
Revolut said it has certain policies and procedures in place to make  sure it meets its legal 
and regulatory  obligations. It apologised that when Mr T had contacted  it on 7 May 2019  
about the verification of his funds  it hadnt responded immediately. But confirmed one of its 
agents had connected with him on 9 May 2019 to complete the review of his account, and 
his source of funds  had been approved. It refunded him 3 months subscription to its 
premium services by way of apology  for any inconvenience. But said that it couldnt be held 
liable for his losses.
Whilst discussing this complaint with our investigator  Revolut offered to pay Mr T a further 
£100 compensation for any inconvenience  caused  by the length of time its verification  
process took. 
Our investigator thought this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. He said it was 
reasonable Revolut had asked for information to verify the source of Mr Ts funds. And he 
didnt think Mr T had provided it with all of the details it needed to do this initially.  But he 
noted that Revolut hadnt passed the review process on to its support team straight  away.  
And thought  this had therefore taken  a bit longer than necessary. Though  he agreed  it 
wouldnt be reasonable to ask Revolut  to compensate Mr T for the loss of opportunity to 
purchase Bitcoin at a lower price.
Mr T disagrees with this view. He thinks Revolut already had the information  it needed  to 
carry out its checks. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr T will be very disappointed,  but 
Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator did. So I wont  be asking Revolut to 
increase its offer of £100 compensation. Ill explain  why.
I understand it was frustrating for Mr T that his funds werent available immediately. But 
banks and other financial businesses have legal  and regulatory obligations which  mean they 
cant always guarantee when transactions are able to be made or that the funds in an 
account will be available at all times.
Ref: DRN73069492On 3 May 2019  Revolut asked to verify the source of Mr Ts funds. I dont  think this was 
unreasonable. Section 7 of its terms and conditions explain  that this might be necessary. 
And there is also an entry about this on its website. 
Mr T had provided Revolut with some  identification when he opened his account a few days 
earlier. And he then sent it a further  document. Revolut has explained this document was an 
unsigned copy of a sales agreement, and didnt meet its requirements to carry out the 
checks it needed to make. Its also told us that because of this it didnt start the process at 
this time. 
Revoluts website says that to verify funds from the sale of a property the source of Mr Ts 
money here  it requires  the following;
a copy of the sale agreement for the property or a signed letter from the lawyer handling the 
sale of the property; a bank  statement showing the proceeds of the sale being  credited to 
your bank account, and a statement showing the funds being  transferred to your bank 
account (unless the funds are due to be deposited  directly into your Revolut account).
When Mr T spoke to a Revolut agent  on 9 May 2019 he was asked for a copy of an 
identification document such as his passport, and a photograph of him holding this next to 
his face. The agent also requested a signed  copy of the sales  agreement,  and a bank 
statement showing Mr Ts name and the receipt  of the sale proceeds.  This was in line with 
the documents Revolut says it needs  above. And its shown us that its in-app chat bot 
provided Mr T with a link to the help page where  this information was contained.
As the proceeds  of the property sale were split between Mr T and his son, Revolut also 
asked for a bank statement showing the receipt of funds into his sons  account, and a signed 
agreement verified  by a solicitor. I dont think this was unreasonable.
Mr T says Revolut  already  had a copy of his passport.  And that his son had an account with 
Revolut and had already  supplied it with information to show that the money had come from 
the sale of a property.  He says he and his son share a name and address, which, along with 
the fact it held copies of their passports, should have confirmed to Revolut that they were  
related. And so he feels it shouldnt have been  a problem that he hadnt  initially provided it 
with all of the information  it requested.
I accept Revolut had verified Mr Ts identity  when he opened his account  10 days earlier. But 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for it to do so again when dealing with such  a large  amount 
of money. And regardless of the relationship between the account holders, I wouldnt expect 
Revolut to look at details of an account belonging to a third party when carrying out a 
transfer or exchange  of funds for a customer. So whilst I appreciate why Mr T feels  Revolut 
ought to have known where his funds had come  from,  I dont  think  its unreasonable that it 
asked him to supply  further evidence of this.
However I do think its reasonable  that Mr T expected Revolut to notify  him if there  was a 
problem with the documents he initially provided. His account wasnt passed to the relevant 
team for review until 7 May 2019,  after Mr T had tried to contact it a number of times  to find 
out how long the verification process  was going  to take. In the meantime  the message 
displayed to him in the app simply read Please bear with us while we review your 
documents. 
Ref: DRN73069493Revolut has confirmed that normally one of its advisors would  reach out to Mr T using the in-
app chat to let him know that it needed  more information before it could approve the source 
of his funds. But that the waiting time for this can vary according to the volume of requests. 
I think under  other circumstances, from what Revoluts  told us, Mr Ts funds mightve  been  
released a couple of days earlier  than they were.  And its recognised this with an offer of 
compensation. But overall I still think they were made available in a reasonable timeframe.  I 
dont agree that they would, or should, have  been available on 3 May 2019.  It would have  
taken some time for Revolut to assess that information was missing and request this from Mr 
T. And although it then carried  out the checks for him over the in-app chat when he provided  
the documents it needed, it says this process  normally takes 48 hours. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr T that Revolut didnt respond to his messages asking for 
updates on the process  sooner. Revoluts explained  that this was due to the high volume  of 
requests it was getting at that time. And overall  I think its offer of £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by the delays he experienced is reasonable to take into account 
everything that happened here.
Mr T has told us hed converted this money into Euros on 3 May 2019  with the intention of 
investing in Bitcoin  that day. The funds werent available until 9 May 2019.  And during  the 
interim period the value of Bitcoin increased. So he wasnt  able to buy as much as he 
couldve done on 3 May 2019.  And wants Revolut  to compensate him for the loss of profits  
he feels he suffered as a result.
Revolut has said that, as per section  24.6 of its terms and conditions,  it cant  be held liable 
for this loss. I agree Revolut makes  it clear that it doesnt  consider itself liable for 
consequential losses such  as loss of profits or opportunity. I also agree with our investigator 
that it wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay Mr T the compensation hes seeking here. I accept he 
missed the valuation point at which  he wanted to purchase the Bitcoin. And I understand 
why this was so disappointing and frustrating for him. But as Ive said I dont think his funds 
wouldve been available at this time. And Bitcoin has a fluctuating value.  This can decrease 
as well as increase. It was ultimately Mr Ts own decision to go ahead and buy it at the time 
and price that he did.
my final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd should pay Mr T £100 compensation to resolve  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7306949