K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 1997. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave Mrs C clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because she had a medical condition  which  
wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt  have claimed on the policy for everything she 
expected to be able to.
I dont think Mrs C wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs C has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  the medical condition  
having never caused Mrs C to take time off work. But I still think  I should uphold the 
complaint. Although it hadnt caused time off work  in the past, that doesnt  mean  it wouldnt  
in the future. The condition had the potential to cause serious complications. So I still think  it 
wouldve been important  to Mrs C that the condition was covered.  
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN77522272B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7752227