K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) did not do proper  affordability  
checks before lending him money.
background
Mr H had three loans from Cashfloat  between December 2016 and April 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment Repaid
1 16 Dec 2016 £200 1m 25 Jan 2017 £264 On time
2 3 Mar 2017 £350 4m 23 Jun 2017 4 x £134.13 25 Apr 2017, early
3 28 Apr 2017 £400 3m 25 Jul 2017 3  x £194.51 On time, 1 late
Mr H says if Cashfloat had done  better checks it would  have seen he wasnt  suitable  for a 
loan. He said he had other short-term loans, spiralling debts and a gambling addiction.
Cashfloat says it asked Mr H for information  about his income and expenditure and checked 
his credit file. It said its checks indicated the loans were affordable. Cashfloat added  that it 
was told by Mr H, in July 2017, that he had a gambling issue so provided no further lending.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She found  Cashfloat did 
enough checks and would  have seen nothing to indicate the loans were unaffordable.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that the checks were not sufficient. He said his credit 
file would have  shown numerous  debts,  including other short-term  loans and a default from 
2012. He says he was only able to repay  the loans due to a redundancy pay out.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Cashfloat and to Mr H on 22 July 2019.  I summarise my 
findings here:
I was satisfied the checks for loan 1 went far enough and there was nothing  to 
suggest it was unaffordable;
I found the credit checks that Cashfloat carried out for loan 2 showed Mr H was due 
to make payments  to four other short-term  loan providers  of over £1,200;
As a result, I considered Cashfloat should have asked further questions about Mr Hs 
other short-term loans at the time he applied  for loan 2;
Had it done so, its likely it would  have found  that Mr H not only had to make  
payments of £1,219 to the four lenders  shown  in the credit file, but he also owed a 
further £600;
I was satisfied, therefore, that had Cashfloat  carried out proportionate checks, it 
would have found loan 2 was unaffordable to Mr H;
When Mr H applied for loan 3, Cashfloats  credit  check again showed  other  
outstanding short-term loans and proportionate  checks were likely to have shown 
Mr H borrowed  £1,650  from three other short-term lenders in the days before loan 3;
This meant  Mr H needed  to make repayments of £1,100  at the same  time the loan 3 
instalment was due and this was not affordable  to him, based on his declared 
disposable income;
So I found Cashfloat should  not have approved loan 3.
Ref: DRN76725132My provisional decision was that Cashfloat  should refund interest and charges on loans 2 
and 3 (plus 8% statutory  interest)  and remove  any associated negative information from his 
credit file.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.
Cashfloat responded to say, in summary:
That checks should be proportionate to the circumstances of the loans and that less 
checking is required in the earlier stages of a loan cycle;
Its credit checks were  carried  out for the purpose  of checking whether Mr H had any 
negative markers on his file, such as County Court Judgements, defaults or debt 
management plans.  These showed  he had a good credit  record  with recent credit 
being well paid;
Summary information showed Mr H had total outstanding loans of £1,247  which in 
the context of a net monthly income  of £1,650 did not indicate his debts were  
unsustainable;
It did not calculate Mr Hs outstanding  short-term  loans, and it was not a requirement 
to do so;
Mr H declared  £200  of monthly credit commitments, which was consistent with the 
total amount outstanding according to the credit  agencies;
Although Mr Hs bank statements may have  shown higher payments, it was only 
required to take into account contractual minimum payments;
It had verified Mr Hs declared income and employment and had taken into account  
the fact he lived with his parents when considering his living  costs;
It had no obligation  to review bank statements at this stage  of the loan cycle  and 
Mr H had repaid loan 2 early  which indicated he was not in financial difficulty and was 
able to make discretionary payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the additional  points made  by Cashfloat,  but they do not persuade me to change  
my decision.
I say that because the checks  carried  out by Cashfloat showed clear indications  that Mr H 
may have  been  struggling to manage his finances. I accept Cashfloats initial  checks  were 
proportionate to the circumstances of loans 2 and 3, but the purpose  of such checks is to 
ensure there is nothing  in the available  information that might show the lending  is 
unaffordable. In this case, the credit checks carried out at the time of Mr Hs applications for 
loans 2 and 3, showed he was using other  short-term lenders. I accept that the overall figure  
for outstanding loans  was not unreasonable in comparison with Mr Hs income, but I 
consider it was important  for Cashfloat to ask further  questions  given the credit  file indicated 
that at least some of the outstanding amount  was due to be repaid in the short-term.
As Cashfloat did not ask further questions, I used Mr Hs bank statements, and other  
available information,  to assess his repayment commitments  at the time the instalments 
were due on loans  2 and 3. As is the nature of short-term loans, the repayments were due 
soon after the loans were taken out and, in some  cases, the entire repayment was due the 
following month. It is these contractual repayments  that I used in the analysis.
Ref: DRN76725133I accept Cashfloat  was under no obligation to look at Mr Hs bank statements, however, 
given what it should have seen on his credit  file, I consider it should have asked further 
questions about  Mr Hs short-term credit commitments. I accept  Mr Hs living arrangements  
meant it was likely his monthly  costs  were lower, but I took that into account when assessing 
the affordability of the loans compared with his own declared disposable income.
Finally, I acknowledge  Mr H repaid loan 2 early, but he applied for loan 3 just three days  
later, and it was for a higher amount. So I dont think its reasonable for Cashfloat to 
conclude this meant Mr H was not in financial difficulty when assessing loan 3. Indeed,  such  
a borrowing  pattern often  indicates there  may be a gambling issue which, indeed, was the 
case here.
For the above reasons, I see no reason to depart from the findings  in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr H paid on loans 2 and 3;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Hs credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7672513