K822xcomplaint 
Mr D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly increased the 
cost of his pet insurance policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr D took out, will continue  to cover  any medical 
conditions claimed  for in previous years, provided  the policy is renewed each year. These are 
sometimes referred to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing or recurring  conditions  will continue  to 
be covered for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly  cost of these 
lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal,  particularly if a claim is made.  
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr D. It has accepted the 
information it gave  Mr D about the policy wasnt as clear  as it should have been. And RSA has 
offered to pay him £750 compensation for the trouble  and upset hes been caused as a result of 
this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D has told us hes not happy with the offer RSA has made. RSA was unable to give Mr D 
any indication as to what his premium was likely to be at renewal, or whether his efforts to 
reduce the cost of his pets medical treatment would limit the increase  to his premiums.  Instead 
it told him not to worry as he had a claim limit of £12,000 per pet that would renew  each year. 
Mr D feels that although  RSA markets its policy as covering  pets for life, it has every 
intention of getting out of its future  obligations  if claims are made by increasing the price of 
the policy by such an amount  that it becomes unaffordable. Once customers  cancel their 
policy they are no longer  able to find alternative cover  for their pets existing  conditions.  
Mr D would like RSA to make  changes to improve the information it gives  to policy  holders  
from the outset so they better understand what the policy is likely to cost in the future. 
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost,  or the level of 
information it should provide its customers.  I would  be, in effect, determining or telling a 
business how it should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant  say the cost of Mr Ds 
policy was too high or he should have been  charged less for the policy. I also dont have the 
power to tell any business how it should market the policies it sells. 
So I have  no power to change the way a business does things, I can only look at whether 
what they have  done is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint  
although I would,  of course,  hope they would learn  lessons from what we say about  the 
complaints we see.
While Mr Ds premium  saw significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to suggest  
RSA has treated him differently  to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the 
Ref: DRN70484652same position. And Ive seen nothing to suggest  the premium was increased to put Mr D off 
renewing his policy   there were risk related reasons for the increase.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr D a significant amount of distress as, due to the 
medical conditions  his pets now have,  he cant find equivalent cover elsewhere.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr D the information he needed  to understand he 
could end up in the position  he found  himself in. Where I find something has gone wrong, Ill 
look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt,  to see if a consumer  has lost out.
I agree  that RSA should have provided  clearer information to Mr D about  the long term costs  
of the policy. But If Mr D hadnt taken the lifetime policy that he did, he wouldve either taken  
a similar  policy,  had no cover at all and would  have had to pay for all his pets treatment  
himself, or taken a policy with a reduced  level of cover, where  he would still have found 
himself in a situation  where his pets conditions were  no longer covered.
Mr D says there are some lifetime  policy providers that dont increase the premium directly 
because of individual claims. But the premiums associated with these policies still tend to 
increase year on year and cost more from the outset. So I cant  know if Mr D would have  
sought out and taken  such  a policy without the foresight of his future  claims. 
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr D having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed  or capped  premium  this 
type of policy typically  didnt exist. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr D has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Mr D for the trouble 
and upset hes been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr D £750  compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7048465