K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV changed the terms of 
his hospital income  insurance policy without properly making him aware of this.
background
Mr A took out the policy in 2000. The policy  would pay various  cash  benefits in the event of 
Mr A needing to attend hospital for treatment. These included  a daily sum for each 24 hour 
period of hospital confinement.
In 2007, CIGNA changed the policy terms so that the first three days of hospital confinement 
were excluded from cover.
In 2019, Mr A became aware of the exclusion.  He considered that this made  his policy  
worthless and cancelled it. He complained to CIGNA that it hadnt  made  him aware of the 
exclusion when it was first introduced. He wanted  it to refund his premiums since that time.
CIGNA didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was entitled to change the policy  terms at 
renewal. It was satisfied  it had made  Mr A aware  of the introduction  of the exclusion when 
his policy  renewed  in 2008.
Mr A was unhappy at CIGNAs response. He referred his complaint  to us. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He was satisfied that 
CIGNA had acted fairly.
Mr A didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He felt that CIGNA had dramatically changed  
the insurance policy without making him properly  aware.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy is annually renewable. Im satisfied that CIGNA was entitled to make a change  to 
the terms at renewal provided it gave Mr A adequate notice of this.
CIGNA has shown that it wrote to Mr A in advance of the 2008 renewal to advise him that it 
was introducing an exclusion so that no benefit  would be paid for the first three days of 
hospital confinement.  Im satisfied that the exclusion was explained clearly  and prominently  
in the letter  which was sent to Mr A. If Mr A hadnt  wanted his policy to renew on these 
terms, he could have  cancelled it at that point.
Mr A didnt cancel his policy in 2008 and so it renewed that year and each  subsequent  year 
until 2019. It is unfortunate  if Mr A hadnt realised  that this change to his policy  had been  
introduced. However,  Im satisfied that CIGNA  did enough to bring  it to his attention at the 
time. In view of this, and the fact that Mr A would have been able to make  a claim under the 
revised terms during  the period the policy was in operation, I can see no reasonable grounds 
for saying  he should be awarded a refund of premiums. 
Ref: DRN77574582my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7757458