K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire Financial Advisers  
Ltd) to transfer  the value  of his deferred  benefits  in a former employers defined  benefit 
pension scheme  to a self invested personal  pension (SIPP) to invest in an unregulated 
investment. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice 
HDIFA gave. 
background
Mr C was referred to a regulated business  (an appointed representative of a network)  Ill call 
Firm A. Mr C was a deferred member of a former employers final salary pension  scheme.  
Firm A didnt have the necessary  permissions to advise on final salary  pension transfers so 
Mr C was referred to HDIFA.
The documents Ive seen  include  a pension review questionnaire (PRQ)  dated  8 May 2012. 
It included questions about Mr Cs attitude to investment  risk. He indicated he was an 
adventurous even  speculative  investor who requires exposure  to extreme markets . 
Firm A wrote to Mr C on 18 May 2012  saying, as he was aware  from discussions with his 
agent, Firm A would be referring him to HDIFA.  Firm A wouldnt be involved in the advice 
about transferring  or Mr Cs investment choice which hed be discussing with his agent. Mr C 
was asked to sign a duplicate of the letter to confirm he understood the process  and Firm As 
involvement. 
HDIFA wrote  to Mr C on the same date. HDIFA said Mr C had recently  met with an 
unregulated introducer and had decided he wanted  to invest in carbon credits.  Hed been 
referred to Firm A and then to HDIFA. HDIFA would  prepare a formal  advice report.  HDIFA 
said it understood Mr C had already decided where he wanted to invest  his pension  fund 
monies. Hed satisfied  himself the investment  was suitable and he wasnt seeking any further  
input from HDIFA.  And, in bold, that HDIFA wouldnt be commenting about  the investment 
and accepted no responsibility  for Mr Cs decision.  He signed the letter  (on 21 May 2012) to 
confirm he understood  its contents. 
HDIFAs suitability report dated  13 June 2012  said Mr C had decided,  following meetings 
with his agent, to invest  in carbon  credits. HDIFA recommended  Mr C transfer the value  of 
his benefits in his former  employers pension scheme to a SIPP with the provider named. 
The letter said Mr C hadnt sought any advice  from HDIFA about that investment and HDIFA 
hadnt given any guidance.
On 23 July 2012 the value  of Mr Cs deferred  benefits (£71,563.04) was transferred to the 
SIPP. In August 2012 he made two investments (£31,206  and £33,706, in total £64,912) in 
White Sands, a property  development  in Brazil.
In a letter dated 10 October  2012 to the SIPP provider  Mr C said he took full responsibility  
for the investment. He said he wanted  to be treated as a direct  client with the agency  for the 
plan under his name. The SIPP provider wrote to HDIFA on 17 October  2012  saying it had 
updated its records to show HDIFA was no longer Mr Cs financial adviser. 
Mr C, through his representative, complained  to Meyado in June 2016. Meyado didnt uphold
Ref: DRN70436852the complaint.  Mr Cs representative referred it to us. Our adjudicator  upheld  the complaint. 
She said it wasnt suitable advice to set up the SIPP to facilitate a transfer to invest in an 
unregulated investment. Meyado didnt  accept that. Meyados main points were: 
Mr C had made a transfer  request (8 May 2012) before HDIFA had any involvement.  
Hed already decided what he was going  to do and hed have done  it anyway.  Hed 
signed the unregulated introducers terms and conditions on the same date. They  
gave clear risk warnings which shows hed have  proceeded  anyway and regardless  
of advice against or warnings.  
The adjudicators  summary of the information  given  in the PRQ was selective. What  
Mr C said about  his pension not being a major part of his overall wealth, his savings 
and an expected inheritance are relevant to his capacity for loss. And he hadnt  just 
spoken to the introducer  and/or  Firm A about  investing in carbon credits   hed 
requested a transfer and signed the introducers terms  and conditions with the 
warnings set out. 
The suitability report was clear  that, once the transfer had been completed, Firm A 
would arrange  the transfer  of the SIPP  agency  so it could advise on the investment. 
Mr C didnt invest in carbon credits but in White Sands.  Meyado is being  held liable 
for later advice or decisions which it had no knowledge of or control over.   
Wed failed to properly investigate the role of, and advice given by, Firm A. We hadnt 
obtained disclosure  of relevant documents. Wed said (our email of 11 November 
2016) Firm A had a case to answer.  But wed pursued the complaint against Meyado 
and reached an adverse  finding without proper regard to Firm As part. Thats unfair  
and irrational. As is the adjudicators selective  approach to the background facts. 
Our statutory duty is to determine  complaints by reference to whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. That should include investigating what  Mr C 
actually invested  in and why he chose  those investments. Not requesting  and 
considering any of the documents about Firm As role meant we werent in a position  
to properly resolve the complaint. We should ask Firm As principal for complete 
documentation and evidence in relation to Mr Cs case.
HDIFA was simply arranging  the transfer (because Firm A didnt have the necessary 
permissions). HDIFA made it clear in writing it wasnt advising on the underlying 
investment. It isnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable in full for how, on advice  
from another party, the money  transferred was invested. Thats irrational and ignores  
causation issues, leaving whoever gave the investment advice without any liability.  
The complaint was referred  to me. I issued a provisional decision on 19 August 2019.
my provisional decision dated  19 August 2019
I upheld the complaint. My main findings  were:
HDIFA had to advise  on the overall transaction, including the proposed  underlying 
investment. To determine if the transfer to a SIPP was suitable, HDIFA needed to 
consider the suitability  of the proposed investment.  I referred to the then regulators 
alert issued  in January  2013.
I acknowledged that HDIFA might say its position was different to that envisaged  in 
the alert as the referral came from another regulated firm, not an unregulated 
introducer. And HDIFA may have made it clear it wasnt  giving  any advice on the 
underlying investments.  But it wasnt open to HDIFA to advise on that limited basis, 
even if HDIFA told Mr C its advice didnt extend to the investment and hed confirmed 
he understood that. 
Ref: DRN70436853I referred to COBS 19.1.6G.  HDIFA should have started  by assuming the transfer  of 
Mr Cs deferred benefits in his former employers pension scheme wouldnt be 
suitable. And further examination would  have confirmed that. 
Investing virtually all Mr Cs only pension in an unregulated investment (whether 
carbon credits or White Sands) wasnt suitable.  Such investments are high risk and 
generally unsuitable for the vast majority of retail  customers. Even if that sort of 
investment might  be suitable, perhaps  for a high net worth  or sophisticated investor, 
it would  generally  only be for a proportion of the investors funds.
The assessment  of Mr Cs attitude to risk  an adventurous even speculative investor 
who required exposure to extreme markets  wasnt credible. Nor did he have the 
capacity for loss that could result. The benefits  transferred were  his only pension 
provision. He was 58, self employed (and his business wasnt  doing so well) and not 
contributing to a pension.  HDIFA  should have advised Mr C to retain his deferred 
benefits in his former employers scheme.
If HDIFA had advised  Mr C against transferring I didnt think hed have ignored  that 
advice. He was interested in transferring to invest in an unregulated investment  
before HDIFAs involvement.  But hed been referred to HDIFA for specialist pension  
advice. I thought hed have placed  significant weight on what  HDIFA said. If HDIFA 
had advised against  that would have counterbalanced any overly  positive views as to 
the expected returns  and reinforced risk warnings given  by the introducer.  
Mr C had received a substantial payment for investing in White  Sands. That would 
have been an important factor in his decision to go ahead.  His business  was facing 
financial difficulties and the payment would provide  cash  and capital. But I didnt think  
hed have proceeded anyway, just to secure the payment if HDIFA had given him 
suitable advice  not to transfer and invest in a speculative,  unregulated investment. 
If HDIFA had advised  Mr C against and hed still wanted to go ahead, HDIFA would  
have needed to treat him as an insistent client. If HDIFA had been prepared  to act on 
that basis it would have entailed exploring  (and recording) Mr Cs reasons for wanting 
to proceed, despite advice against. I thought  that would have made Mr C realise  what 
he was planning  to do was very risky and against professional advice. 
I acknowledged HDIFA  wasnt the only party involved. Firm A was regulated,  as was 
the SIPP provider.  I recognised the involvement  of others may have impacted on 
what happened and was a factor in deciding who was responsible  for Mr Cs losses. 
I explained what had happened when we received Mr Cs complaint  in July 2016.  It 
named Meyado/HDIFA as the respondent.  Meyado said the complaint should be 
redirected to Firm A. Mr Cs representative  told us a complaint had been made to 
Firm A. But it said it hadnt given any advice  and had introduced Mr C to another  firm. 
And a subject access request hadnt disclosed anything to show Firm A gave advice. 
We told Meyado that HDIFA  had given regulated advice. The complaint was about 
the suitability of that advice and wed be considering that complaint. Hence Id 
concentrated on what HDIFA did (or didnt do) and, in particular, if HDIFAs advice 
was suitable. 
Meyado might argue Mr Cs losses arise from the investment and not the transfer or 
the SIPP itself.  But, if the transfer  hadnt happened and the SIPP  hadnt  been set up, 
Mr C wouldnt  have been in a position to make the investment   whether carbon 
credits or White Sands. On that basis HDIFAs role was instrumental.
Firm A had introduced Mr C to HDIFA. It was then up to HDIFA to give suitable (and 
complete) advice.  Firm A may have given advice about the carbon credits  investment 
initially proposed  (although from what  Id seen it hadnt). Unregulated advice  could 
have been given by the introducer.  But Mr C couldnt have invested as he did if he 
hadnt transferred  to a SIPP on advice from HDIFA. 
Ref: DRN70436854I didnt agree Mr Cs losses could have reduced or avoided  if hed reviewed  his 
investment. Or that his losses must have arisen  sometime after the investment had 
been made. His losses had arisen directly from HDIFAs  unsuitable advice. HDIFA 
knew the purpose of the transfer  to the SIPP was to invest  in an unregulated 
investment, whether  carbon  credits or White Sands. Both were unsuitable. 
The letter Mr C signed (10 October 2012), saying he accepted full responsibility for 
the pension plan and the underlying investment, was after the event: the SIPP  had 
already been set up and the transfer  value paid into it and the investments made.  
HDIFA wasnt simply arranging the transfer . HDIFA had advised  Mr C to transfer  
and facilitated  the transfer.  If HDIFAs advice was unsuitable, it was responsible for 
the losses Mr C had suffered in consequence. That wasnt wrong in law or irrational. 
Rather it reflected  the facts of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter. I set 
out how Meyado  should redress Mr C. 
Mr C accepted what Id said.  Meyado made  further representations. We asked Mr C for 
some more information. We shared what he said with Meyado. I then wrote to the parties on 
6 December 2019.
my letter of 6 December 2019.
I first summarised what Meyado had said in response to my provisional  decision followed by 
the further enquiries wed made of Mr C and Meyados comments. Ive summarised those 
sections of my letter below. I then went on to make  some further provisional findings  which  
Ive more or less set out in full (although  Ive anonymised the parties).  
Meyados comments on my provisional decision 
Mr C's decision to transfer was made with assistance or advice from a number of 
entities, not just HDIFA. I'd continued  to ignore  the involvement  of others, on the sole 
basis apparently  that Mr Cs complaint had been  made against  HDIFA, even though  
Firm A (a regulated entity) and an unregulated introducer were also involved. I hadnt 
considered what  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and my decision 
was irrational. 
In particular Id been unwilling to look into the relationship between Mr C and Firm A, 
whod advised  him to invest in the investment which is at the heart of his complaint.  
That suggests, where multiple entities are involved (regulated or not), well disregard 
all but the one at which the complaint is directed  and hold it liable, irrespective of 
where responsibility properly lies. Liability will depend on who the complainant 
happens to name. That's contrary to our obligations  under the Financial Services & 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and unjust  to one or more parties. Many complainants  
won't really understand the roles  and responsibilities  of who they dealt with. 
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Key documents and evidence from Firm A 
havent been made available  and had impaired Meyados  ability to defend itself. Our 
enquiries are at best incomplete. What Id said about knowing what  Firm A did  
introducing Mr C to HDIFA  suggested  a wilfully  simplified approach. 
That had led to a fundamental  error  as to causation, based on the assumption that, 
without HDIFAs involvement, the investments and Mr Cs losses wouldnt have 
happened. That failed to take into account his decision to invest  and that it is the 
investments (and not the SIPP  wrapper)  which are the primary cause of his losses. 
Mr C had held himself  out to HDIFA as an adventurous  and speculative investor, 
for whom the proposed  pension  transfer wouldn't make a major contribution to his
Ref: DRN70436855long term wealth. But we'd assumed he was a wholly inexperienced retail investor, 
which is at odds with both his self description and his investment profile. Thats 
irrational and ignores relevant evidence in favour of assumptions.
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision.
Months before HDIFA was involved Mr C had already decided to transfer  his pension 
and had signed the formal transfer request. Thats powerful  evidence that he was 
determined to transfer. His decision cant have been influenced by HDIFA.
Before HDIFAs involvement hed signed  the unregulated introducers terms and 
conditions which contained  express  warnings, including that carbon credits should be 
treated as a high risk, speculative investment which  wasnt regulated. Despite those  
clear warnings  Mr C was undeterred. Its irrational speculation to say, if HDIFA had 
repeated such explicit  warnings,  hed have changed  his position. 
After the transfer  Firm A advised  on the investment and (unknown to HDIFA and 
without its involvement) Mr C decided to invest in White  Sands, a totally different 
investment. 
Firm A was the advising entity.  Wed accepted in November 2016 that it had a case  
to answer' but wed refused to investigate its involvement properly or at all. Thats 
irrational and unfair. We hadnt considered whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Mr C had received a very substantial incentive payment. He desperately needed it to 
repay his son and for his business.  Concluding  he wouldnt have proceeded in any 
event is unfounded speculation and irrational. Hed been warned about investing in 
unregulated schemes but he went ahead nonetheless and when he stood to benefit 
from a desperately needed incentive payment. The evidence overwhelmingly points 
to the conclusion hed have proceeded with his chosen investment come  what  may.
As to causation it must be accepted  as a matter of fact that Firm A (and not HDIFA) 
advised on the investment and that HDIFA had no knowledge  of, or involvement in, 
the decision to invest in White Sands. Its difficult, if not impossible, to blame HDIFA 
for any investment  decision made after its involvement had ceased, after another  
regulated entity (Firm A) had provided  advice and where  HDIFA didnt have and 
couldnt have  any influence or control over the ultimate investment. 
Saying Mr C wouldnt have ignored advice against proceeding was conjecture  and at 
odds with the evidence. And ignores the fact that he invested in a product which  
HDIFA had no knowledge of or involvement in. HDIFA couldnt  have  warned  him 
about investing in something it didnt know about. And Id disregarded Mr Cs own 
assessment of his experience and attitude  to risk. 
Id said we knew what Firm A did  it introduced Mr C to HDIFA. But Firm A went  on 
to advise and facilitate the investment in White Sands. What Id said misrepresented  
the true position and was irrational.  
our further  enquiries
We asked for some  more details  about the incentive payment Mr C had received 
Hed already told us hed been  advised he could access up to 25% of the value  of his 
pension fund.
His initial contact had been with an adviser he'd previously used to arrange  his 
mortgage. He'd spoken to numerous people after that but he was unsure of their 
names or who they worked for.
Ref: DRN70436856Mr C had contacted  the adviser  who'd previously arranged his mortgage.  Mr C 
thought this was a way he could raise some  money. That adviser then told Mr C 
about releasing money from his pension. 
The incentive payment was first mentioned by the mortgage adviser some 23 months
before Mr C received  it. That was the only time it was mentioned. The adviser  said it
was 25% of the pension fund, tax free. Mr C says he was given to understand  it was 
a payment of tax free cash to which he was entitled.  He didn't query  it - he'd been  
told it was usual to receive 25% of his pension  fund as an incentive.
Hed also told us that hed used the money to pay his son wages he was owed and to 
support his (Mr Cs) business. The incentive payment had been paid into his son's 
bank account.  His son worked  for him and was owed two months' wages (about 
£1,200).
The balance of the money was used to catch up on some arrears  (wages, one 
month's rent of £600 and VAT) and to pay advertising and accountants' fees and to 
invest generally in the business - a cafe which had opened in August 2001. It ceased 
trading in June  2014 due, Mr C says, to the economic downturn and increased 
competition in the area.
Mr C didn't know if HDIFA was made  aware of the payment. The only person hed 
spoken to about  it was the mortgage  adviser. Nothing was said to him about whether 
HDIFA knew about any payment.  He wasn't  told not to mention it to HDIFA. He never 
had any dealings with HDIFA.
We shared what Mr C had told us with Meyado. It said the complaint to us had been  made  
over three years ago and had reached an advanced  stage - I'd issued a provisional decision.  
But until now no or no proper information had been supplied  to Meyado about the substantial 
and obviously material tax free cash incentive Mr C received. 
Meyado said Mr C should explain why he concealed this obviously important and relevant  
information from Meyado  (and presumably us); when and how we first became aware of it 
and had he volunteered the information;  and why, even now,  no evidence  has been  supplied 
concerning the payment, such as bank  statements. Meyado couldn't have known about the 
payment. Meyado has been and remains materially prejudiced  by Mr C's concealment  of this 
information/evidence. His answers to our enquiries  were extremely brief and raised more 
questions. His conduct and minimal evidence casts  real doubt on his credibility.
Meyado said, in summary, that Mr Cs evidence was that his relevant conversations about 
the incentive payment were with the mortgage adviser. Mr C had unquestioningly accepted  
the information that adviser gave him; Mr C spoke only to that adviser  and not to HDIFA. Not 
only was HDIFA not aware  of the payment but Mr C deliberately  withheld  it. He should 
explain who advised  him not to mention the payment to HDIFA and why he considered it 
appropriate to conceal material information/evidence  from a party he now blames  solely and 
exclusively for all his losses (despite asserting  that he never  had dealings  with them  direct).
Meyado referred  again to our email of 11 September 2016  where  we'd said that that 
Meyado/HDIFA and Firm A or its principal  may have  a case to answer and those  entities 
would be investigated.  Despite that there'd been  no proper investigation into Firm A. We 
hadn't given any or any proper consideration to the material involvement of other  parties 
such as the mortgage adviser.
Mr C had received a tax free incentive payment. That's powerful evidence he'd have  
transferred irrespective of any advice to the contrary and relevant to causation.  If the 
complaint is to proceed Mr C must disclose all relevant email correspondence with the 
Ref: DRN70436857mortgage adviser; copies  of his bank statements concerning receipt of the payment; and 
evidence as to how the payment was used.  Mr C was facing financial hardship at the time 
and that was a factor  influencing  his decisions about  the transfer as well as the advice he'd 
received from his mortgage  adviser  and/or Firm A. In all the circumstances it's wrong to 
target Meyado with full responsibility for Mr C's losses.
my further provisional findings
DISP 3.6.IR requires me to determine a complaint  by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I agree that the involvement  of other 
parties is a relevant factor.
There are specific  DISP  rules which might apply where more than one party  is involved:
DISP 3.5.2R says that I may inform the complainant that it might be appropriate to complain 
against some other respondent.  DISP 3.5.3R says that where  two or more complaints from 
one complainant relate to connected  circumstances,  I may investigate  them  together, but will 
issue separate provisional assessments  and determinations in respect of each respondent. 
And DISP  3.6.3G says that where  a complainant makes complaints against more  than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the ombudsman may determine  that the 
respondents must contribute  towards  the overall award  in the proportion that the 
ombudsman considers appropriate.  I've borne all those provisions in mind.
It isn't the case that because Mr C's complaint has been made  against  Meyado I haven't 
considered the involvement of others.  Or that we won't consider whether any other party  
might have some responsibility in the matter where the complaint has been  made  about  
another party. But that doesn't  mean  that a conclusion that, despite the involvement of other 
(regulated) entities, the complaint should be upheld against the party complained  about  and 
that party should meet the consumer's losses in full, must be unfair or unreasonable.
I agree  with Meyado that liability and causation is determined  by factual and legal 
considerations rather than which party a complainant  may think  is responsible and names  as 
the respondent to the to the complaint. As Meyado has said,  a complainant  may not recall  
who they dealt  with, which party did what, and what  a particular entity's  regulatory  and legal 
obligations were.
Against that background and taking into account  the further information we've obtained I've
considered again Meyado's main point - the involvement of other  parties and, in particular,
Mr C's mortgage adviser and Firm A. 
Mr C doesn't really recall  exactly  who he dealt  with aside from his mortgage adviser. Mr C 
may regard  that adviser as responsible for his losses - it seems  he suggested using Mr C's 
pension fund to raise some cash for Mr C's business. But, as Meyado accepts, who Mr C 
may think is responsible  won't necessarily be conclusive  - a consumer may not have a full 
appreciation of the roles and responsibilities of each  party that's been involved.
The mortgage adviser was, and as far as I can ascertain, remains  a regulated adviser.  It isn't 
clear exactly  what he said about  the proposed investment. But it could  amount  to investment 
advice. Advising on investments is a regulated activity under article 53(1) of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities) Order  2001 (SI 2001/544) (RAO). The 
definition includes advice  on the merits of an investor (or potential  investor)  buying, selling, 
subscribing for, exchanging, redeeming, holding or underwriting a particular investment. The 
adviser's permissions might not have been limited to mortgage business and might  have 
Ref: DRN70436858extended to investment advice too. So he may have given regulated  advice about  the 
investment.
But I think he also had some links to an unregulated introducer for the carbon credits
investment. HDIFA's  letter of 18 May 2012 to Mr C records  that he'd recently met with an 
unregulated introducer. 
It's possible that in any conversations  with Mr C about the investment  the mortgage  adviser  
was acting for the introducer and in an unregulated  capacity. On that basis he'd have been 
prohibited from giving financial advice - under section 19 of FSMA a person  must be 
authorised to conduct any regulated  activity.  If what he said amounted to investment advice 
and he was acting  for the unregulated introducer, he'd be in breach of section 19.
Mr C signed a disclaimer on 8 May 2012. He confirmed he'd discussed  the risks of the 
investment in full with the introducer and that he was aware  of and accepted  the risk factors  
set out. There was also a box saying, in bold, that this could lead to illiquidity  and potentially  
full financial loss. If the conversation was confined to the introducer giving that sort of 
information that won't be advice. Simply  providing  information about an investment won't  
necessarily amount to advice. Generally  an element of opinion  - on the merits of an investor  
(or potential investor) buying, selling, subscribing  for, exchanging, redeeming, holding  or 
underwriting a particular  investment - is required.
But even if the mortgage adviser (or for that matter anyone else Mr C dealt with from the 
unregulated introducer) did give some advice he knew  any investment would be made  out of 
funds transferred from Mr C's pension  and so he was referred to Firm A for advice. But, 
because his pension  arrangements consisted of deferred benefits in a defined benefits
occupational scheme,  Firm A couldn't advise and so introduced Mr C to HDIFA.
I think Firm A also undertook  some initial information  gathering. The arrangement  appears to
have been that Firm A would complete a fact find and research the consumer's existing 
pension arrangements. There's  also an exchange  of emails between  HDIFA and Firm A on 
17 and 18 May 2012 which shows that. The information would be submitted to HDIFA and
used together  with any additional details obtained  by HDIFA to prepare  the recommendation 
report. And Firm A did get a fee (£500) for the introduction.
But, from what I've seen and contrary to what  Meyado says, it doesn't  look like Firm A gave 
any advice. There's a letter from Firm A to Mr C dated 18 May 2012. It said Firm A had 
referred Mr C to HDIFA because Firm A didnt have the appropriate permissions to 
undertake occupational pension transfers. It went on to say that Firm A acted as introducing
firm to another business (although the name  given wasn't HDIFA). And that Firm A hadn't
played any part in the advice about  the transfer or the choice of investments - once the other  
named firm had undertaken the pension  review, any investments Mr C wished to purchase 
would be his own choice  and could be discussed with the introducing agent.  Mr C signed  a 
duplicate letter to confirm  he'd understood the process and Firm As involvement on 21 May 
2012. Above  where he signed the letter said:
'I understand  that [Firm  A] is not involved  with, or responsible  for the advice given around 
[the] pension transfer nor are [Firm A] advising or making any recommendations as to the
underlying investments.'
So Mr C's details were passed to HDIFA. He doesn't really recall  HDIFA's involvement. It 
was after all some years ago. But there's no dispute that HDIFA was involved and that it 
Ref: DRN70436859played a key part. HDIFA's letter  of 18 May 2012  enclosed various documents, including  
HDIFA's letter of engagement which Mr C signed. And HDIFA sent its report  to Mr C on 13 
June 2012 recommending  that he transfer.  HDIFA then arranged the SIPP  and the transfers 
into it.
It was up to HDIFA to give suitable  advice. As I explained in my provisional  decision, 
HDIFA's advice should have  taken into account the proposed underlying investment. It 
wasn't open to HDIFA to seek to limit its advice to the SIPP wrapper and not consider  the
underlying investments. Where a consumer seeks advice on a pension transfer, 
consideration has to be given  to the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper 
(here the SIPP) and the expected underlying investment - here a high risk, illiquid 
unregulated investment - which is the type of investment  mentioned in the FCA's alert. I
acknowledged, in my provisional decision, that the alert was aimed at business  which
involved an unregulated  introducer and that Meyado might argue that the position was
different as the referral had come  from another regulated firm - although an unregulated
introducer was involved too. But my view remains that, regardless of the source of the 
business, it wasn't open to HDIFA to seek to limit its advice  to the SIPP  wrapper.
It's also the case that, by the time the investment  came to be made, HDIFA had completed 
its work:  it had recommended the transfer, set up the SIPP  and arranged  for the transfer 
value from Mr C's former employer's scheme  to be paid into the SIPP  where the funds were 
held in cash. And HDIFA didn't give the instruction for the investment to be purchased: The 
SIPP provider's investment  purchase request form was signed  by Mr C on 3 August 2012. 
HDIFA's details aren't given: at the section about investment advice Mr C had ticked a box 
saying he had received no advice on the merits of his proposed  investment and the 
investment decision  was solely his responsibility.
But I don't  think  any of that changes things. HDIFA had to consider the proposed investment 
as part of the transfer advice. HDIFA knew from the outset that the transfer was to allow  Mr 
C to invest in carbon  credits. I know that in the end Mr C invested in White  Sands. But the 
point is that HDIFA knew  that Mr C's intention was to invest  in an unregulated investment. 
To be able to advise  about the transfer  properly and in accordance  with the rules,  HDIFA 
had to understand the risks associated  with the proposed investment - whether it was carbon 
credits or White Sands. Both were high risk, unregulated investments. Both were equally 
unsuitable for an investor such  as Mr C.
I think the advice  should have been  not to transfer.  Recommending that Mr C transfer
- and give up virtually guaranteed benefits  in his former employer's scheme  - to invest  in a
high risk, unregulated  scheme - was unsuitable.  Even if the proposed underlying  investment 
had been different it would still have been  difficult to justify  the transfer. As I said in my 
provisional decision the starting  point under COBS 19.1.6G is that transferring wont be 
suitable.
And I don't think Meyado  seeks to argue  that its advice was suitable.  Rather  its position  is
that due to the involvement of other entities it wouldn't  be fair or reasonable to hold it
responsible for Mr C's losses in full.
I can see an argument that Mr C's losses stem mainly from the failure of the investment. 
And, given  that the funds transferred were initially held in cash, no loss had resulted by the 
time HDIFA's role ceased. But I think that ignores  the bigger picture.  As I've said, HDIFA 
knew that, ultimately, the proposed investment was in carbon credits. And the money was 
Ref: DRN704368510only available to invest (whether in carbon credits or White Sands) because HDIFA had 
recommended the transfer and facilitated it.
I note that in signing the SIPP member  declaration Mr C confirmed that he understood the 
investment may be high risk and that responsibility  for the investment and the decision to 
invest rested with Mr C and any investment adviser  he'd appointed.  But, as already 
discussed, HDIFA had a responsibility to consider the investment too. I don't think  signing 
the declaration  absolves HDIFA from that. The same is true of the disclaimer Mr C signed on 
8 May 2012.
I've also considered very carefully all Meyado  says about why Mr C would have gone  ahead  
anyway even if HDIFA had advised him against.
Where there's a dispute about what happened (or what might  have happened if something
different had been done) I have  to decide, on the balance of probabilities  and taking into
account such evidence  as is available, what the likely outcome would have been.  The weight 
I attach to particular  evidence is a matter for me. Meyado may not agree with my findings. 
But that doesn't mean what I've said is irrational or that I've failed to take into account 
relevant information  or evidence or that I've based  my decision  on irrelevant factors.
I note what HDIFA says about Mr C having been looking into transferring before HDIFA's 
involvement. Based on what  he'd been  told by other  parties and before he got any advice 
from HDIFA, he was considering transferring. But the point is that he'd been referred to 
HDIFA for specialist advice as to whether  he should  transfer. It was up to HDIFA to give him 
suitable advice.  I don't think  it necessarily follows that if HDIFA had advised him against 
transferring he'd have gone  ahead  anyway. I think it's more  likely that if he'd have been 
given suitable  advice - from a pensions transfer  specialist - that he shouldn't transfer that 
would have made him think again.
HDIFA didn't consider  the investment because it didn't  think it had to. But it was part and
parcel of the overall transaction and so HDIFA should  have considered it. That would  have
entailed spelling out the risks posed by the carbon credits  investment. I acknowledge that
from the disclaimer dated 8 May 2012  it seems  that the unregulated introducer  had 
discussed the risks with Mr C and that he was still prepared to proceed. But I don't think  
that's the same as formal  advice from a specialist adviser that what Mr C planned to do was 
too risky. I think that sort of advice  that would have  given  Mr C pause  for thought  as to 
whether what he was planning  was a good  idea after all.
And the process  that would  have  needed  to have  been followed if HDIFA had advised
Mr C not to transfer wouldn't have made it easy for him to do it anyway. HDIFA might have 
been prepared  to treat him as an insistent client, that is one who still wanted to proceed 
despite advice  to the contrary. But that would  have entailed discussions  with Mr C to explore 
and record his reasons  why he was prepared to proceed and take a high degree of risk, 
despite advice  to the contrary from a specialist pension transfer adviser. I think  that would 
have concentrated  Mr C's mind on whether it was really advisable  to do what he was 
planning. And, on balance, I think he'd have reconsidered.
HDIFA may not have  been prepared to process  the transfer on an insistent client  basis. If
HDIFA had declined to act, Mr C would have needed to have  found  another adviser. I'd 
assume any new adviser would have  given suitable  advice - that he shouldn't transfer to 
invest in an unregulated investment. So Mr C would  have  been no further forward.
Ref: DRN704368511But we now know that Mr C received a substantial  payment - £18,350 - in return for investing 
in White Sands.  That's a very substantial amount. I recognise that, most people, if told that 
sort of sum is on offer, would naturally  want to access it. I agree it was a motivating factor in 
Mr C's decision to go ahead.
Meyado refers to Mr C being  in desperate and urgent need of the funds. I think that
overstates the position somewhat. Looking at the pension review questionnaire  it seems
Mr C and his wife's financial position at the time was fairly  comfortable. Their joint income 
was £4,100 a month,  made  up of their salaries  (both  were  employed in Mr C's business) and 
rental income. Their  monthly expenditure was about £1,850 giving a disposable monthly 
income of between £1,800 and £2,250. It also appears that they were awaiting an 
inheritance of between £200,000 and £250,000.
And HDIFA's  advice  wasn't given on the basis that Mr C's business was in financial
difficulties and he needed to raise funds  urgently. Even if that was the case I'd expect other
options, such as further borrowing (perhaps on a fairly short term basis  if what  was said
about an expected inheritance was right) to have been explored  first.
But, from what Mr C says, he was looking to raise  some capital and that's why he
approached his mortgage adviser - who then suggested Mr C might be able to release 
money from his pension. So the money  was needed  - it allowed Mr C to pay off some  
business arrears and invest in his business. But it doesn't seem that the business was in 
serious difficulties at the time - the arrears Mr C says he paid weren't large or very overdue.  
And although some repairs  to equipment  were  undertaken  I don't think  that means that the 
work was essential  in order  to keep the business afloat. The business  may have failed in 
2014. But that was some two years later. The timing doesn't  indicate that, but for the 
incentive payment,  the business  would have failed in 2012.
I don't agree  with Meyado's comments about  Mr C or us having concealed the payment. It 
seems Mr C understood it was money that he was entitled to as part of his tax free cash and 
which would be paid out of his pension  fund. It seems he simply thought it was a portion of 
the transfer value he was entitled to take as cash.  So I don't think he'd necessarily have 
seen it as something which might be controversial or out of the ordinary or which he needed 
to keep quiet about. My understanding  of what Mr C's said is that he wasn't told not to 
mention it to HDIFA - there was no discussion about whether HDIFA knew  about it or not.
When we asked Mr C about  it he provided  the details we'd requested,  including  a copy of his 
bank statement showing the receipt  of the payment. He also responded to our further 
enquines. I don't think any adverse inference should  be drawn from the fact that his answers 
to our queries were relatively brief. 
What's important here is that we've  looked into the payment further and we've shared the
details with Meyado,  which has been  able to comment  on it. I'm also issuing this letter  so
that Meyado can see what  I think about it and the other comments  made and has the 
opportunity, if it disagrees, to provide further evidence and argument  before I issue any
further decision.
I don't agree  with what Meyado has said about  us concealing material  evidence  - a copy of
the relevant bank statement. We asked for that as evidence of the incentive  payment. We
can supply a copy of that statement. But we'll redact all the details except for the payment.
So I don't see that much  would be gained from doing that.
Ref: DRN704368512I think Meyado's argument for requesting  sight of Mr C's bank  statements is that his financial 
position at the time is relevant in terms of the incentive payment and whether he'd have 
gone ahead  anyway to secure  that money. But Mr C's financial position  at the time was 
explored by HDIFA - it earned  out a fact finding  exercise which included obtaining details of 
Mr C's income and expenditure. As I've said above, his position  seems to have been fairly  
comfortable. I don't think it's necessary or proportionate  to insist that his bank statements are 
disclosed.
As to whether  we should seek further  information from Firm A I don't see that would help
Meyado when I've considered SO's involvement and from the perspective  of what HDIFA
understood Firm As role to be - in particular that Firm A (or another  party) had given Mr C
advice about the carbon credits investment before he was put in touch with HDIFA and that
Firm A (or the unregulated introducer) would be dealing with how his pension fund would be
invested once  the transfer had been completed.
As to causation, my starting  point is that Meyado gave unsuitable advice. So primarily it is
responsible for the consequences of that unsuitable  advice  - the losses that Mr C has
suffered in consequence of transferring to the SIPP and investing in carbon credits.
As I've said, I don't think Meyado argues that HDIFA's advice was suitable. Its position  is,
given the involvement  of other parties,  it isn't fair or reasonable to hold Meyado responsible
for Mr C's losses in full. I've recognized the involvement of others.  And I've considered  it very 
carefully along with the other  causation  issues that Meyado has raised.
But my view remains that Meyado is responsible for Mr C's losses.  As I said in my
provisional decision, if Meyado considers that other parties are also to blame and should
share some of the liability, it's presumably open to Meyado to pursue those other parties.  I
don't see that Mr C, if his losses are met in full by Meyado, would  object to assigning
his rights to Meyado.
comments in response  to my letter of 6 December 2019
Mr C was happy with what Id said. Meyado didnt accept my conclusions. It continued to rely 
on the arguments it had previously raised. In particular it drew  attention  to the following:
No or no sufficient enquiries had been  made with Firm A. Wed taken at face value 
Firm As assertions as to its involvement.  Amongst  other things this is relevant  to 
where Mr Cs investment decisions originated from. 
My conclusions  as to causation are unreasonable and irrational given the available  
evidence. Theres evidence Mr C received advice about investment risk from the 
introducer yet he decided invest anyway. It was unreasonable to speculate  that he 
wouldnt have invested if another party (whether HDIFA or otherwise) had repeated 
that advice. Any such advice wouldnt have made any difference, especially when 
hed signed a disclaimer on 8 May 2012.  
Thats reinforced by his financial circumstances at the time and his need for the 
incentive payment.  The available evidence  shows  he was facing significant financial 
pressures at the time and the rational conclusion is that the payment would have 
been a decisive motivating factor. 
The present  factual analysis is incorrect and unfairly influenced  by hindsight and/or 
unevidenced speculation about  what might  (or might  not) have happened but for 
HDIFAs involvement. 
Ref: DRN704368513my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont think Meyados comments are new. I dont  have  much to add to what  Ive said 
previously. Meyados main point remains Firm As involvement. I dont agree we havent 
made sufficient enquiries about that. Or that Ive misunderstood the part played by Firm A, or 
indeed others. 
It isnt entirely clear exactly who was involved at the outset and who referred Mr C to Firm A. 
As set out above, hes said he initially contacted  his mortgage adviser who,  it seems, worked  
for a regulated business. But it seems that an unregulated introducer became involved. Firm 
As letter (dated 18 May 2012) mentions an introducer. And HDIFAs letter of the same date 
names the unregulated introducer, as does the suitability report.  And Mr C signed that 
introducers terms and conditions.  
I accept Mr C may have had some initial discussions with his mortgage adviser and its 
possible that may have  amounted to regulated advice. It also seems Mr C had discussions 
with the unregulated introducer. Even if what was said didnt  amount  to (unregulated) advice, 
Mr C was told that the investment - carbon credits  was high risk and speculative and a 
number of risk warnings were given,  which Mr C signed.  
Mr C was then referred  to Firm A. I think Firm A completed the PRQ with Mr C. Its dated 8 
May 2012 and thats when Mr C signed the transfer  request  (which  HDIFA later asked him to 
re-date and re-sign). I can see there  might  have been some  discussion about what Mr C was 
thinking about doing, based on what hed been told by his mortgage  adviser  and/or  the 
unregulated introducer. And what Firm A said may have amounted  to advice. But, on the 
other hand, Firm As letter  of 18 May 2012  says it wasnt involved in Mr Cs investment 
choice and its role was limited to introducing  him to HDIFA.  (I assume references in the letter 
to a different  firm are an error.)  And the subject access request didnt disclose anything to 
indicate Firm A had given  advice. 
I can see Meyados argument  that Mr C had already decided what  he wanted to do and 
based on what hed been told by others. But theres  no dispute, whatever was said initially  
and by others, that Mr C was then referred  by Firm A to HDIFA. It says it was only advising 
Mr C on the transfer and the SIPP  itself.  HDIFA understood  and Mr C agreed  hed be 
getting investment  advice  from another regulated  firm. Mr C also confirmed (to the SIPP  
provider) that he took full responsibility  for the investment (although that appears to have 
been after the investment had been made). But Ive explained why HDIFA couldnt  advise on 
that limited basis and that, in looking at the suitability  of the transfer  and the SIPP, HDIFA 
had to consider  the suitability of the underlying investment. 
Thats the position even though the introduction had come from a regulated firm and not 
direct from an unregulated introducer  although  in any event HDIFA knew an unregulated 
introducer was involved. Notwithstanding HDIFAs understanding  that investment advice was 
to be given by a regulated firm, HDIFA couldnt seek to exclude its regulatory duties by 
agreement with Mr C. And, even if the transfer  value was initially  held in cash,  HDIFA knew  
Mr C was planning to invest  in a speculative and high risk unregulated  investment.
The proposed investment   carbon credits  wasnt suitable for Mr C. Ive explained 
elsewhere why I dont regard the assessment of his attitude to risk (adventurous or even 
Ref: DRN704368514speculative) as credible.  I dont think he had any real investment experience and certainly 
not of specialist, non mainstream,  higher risk funds. Mr C may have indicated he was 
prepared to take a very high level of risk with this pension fund and that he didnt regard it as 
a major part of his overall wealth. And he may have  had some other assets  (savings of an 
undisclosed amount)  as well as an expected inheritance. But I still dont think he had the 
capacity for risk that this sort of investment represented. 
Mr C did switch investments  from carbon credits to White Sands. HDIFA had known about 
the carbon credits investment  and had failed to advise about it  because it didnt think  it had 
to. HDIFAs failure stemmed from its incorrect approach, not because  it didnt know  exactly 
what Mr C would be investing in. Carbon  credits  and White  Sands were both high risk, 
unregulated and equally unsuitable for Mr C. It isnt the case  that HDIFA thought Mr C was 
going to invest  in something that might have  been suitable for him but he then invested in 
something which clearly wasnt.  Nor  is it the case that his losses are more because  of the 
investment actually chosen. Both investments have failed. HDIFA gave the transfer advice 
and it is responsible for the losses which have been  incurred  as a result. Mr C was only able 
to invest as he did (whether in carbon credits or White  Sands)  because  HDIFAs unsuitable 
advice unlocked the money from his former  employers pension  scheme.  
In any event, the transfer itself was unsuitable. I dont  think  Mr Cs circumstances were such  
that he should have been advised to give up benefits in a final salary pension  scheme  to 
transfer to a SIPP where the charges were higher and his retirement benefits were  
dependent on investment returns. About that the suitability report  said the estimated critical 
yield (the growth  rate required  to match  the benefits  given up in the employers scheme)  was 
10.4%. At the time the assumed future growth  rates set by the regulator  for use in pension 
illustrations were 5%, 7% and 9%. A critical yield of 10.4% would have  been  considered  high 
(and was described  by HDIFA  as such) and, in my view, unlikely to be achievable.
Mr C was 58 at the time and not contributing to any pension arrangement. The benefits  hed 
accrued in his former employers scheme  didnt represent lengthy pensionable service  - four 
years. But it was his only pension  provision  (aside  from his state  entitlement)  and would 
have provided  a secure, base line retirement  income estimated at some  £4,372  at age 65. In 
my view Mr C should have  been advised  to retain  his benefits in his former employers 
scheme.
I dont agree my conclusions have been  reached  with the benefit of hindsight.  Theres no 
dispute as to the advice  HDIFA gave  it recommended that Mr C transfer. That advice was 
unsuitable. HDIFA is responsible for the consequences of its unsuitable advice. 
Ive considered very carefully again what Mr C would have done if hed been given suitable  
advice  that he shouldnt transfer.  Ive taken into account what  Meyado has said about  Mr C 
having already  decided  what  he wanted to do before HDIFAs involvement. And I note that 
he signed the introducers terms and conditions which  contained risk warnings about carbon 
credits. But the document also said the introducer  wasnt regulated.  I think  Mr C would  have 
placed more weight on what a regulated adviser  said.  Faced  with advice or encouragement 
from an unregulated  introducer to invest in a high risk, speculative  investment and clear 
advice not to do that from a regulated adviser and a pension  transfer  specialist, I think Mr C 
would have relied more on what the latter said. I think that would have made  him question 
what he was planning to do. On balance I think hed have reconsidered. 
 
I dont disagree that the availability of a substantial incentive payment would have been a 
significant factor in Mr Cs decision, especially as he was looking to raise money for his 
Ref: DRN704368515business. But, on balance, I dont agree, for the reasons Ive explained, that Mr C would 
have proceeded  anyway  and if HDIFA had advised him against transferring.
All in all my views remain as Ive previously indicated. I uphold  the complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr C as far as possible in the position hed be in now if 
HDIF had given him suitable advice. I think Mr C would have retained his deferred  benefits in 
his former  employers scheme. 
Ive said below the redress should,  if possible,  be paid into a suitable pension  arrangement.  
But if thats not possible a cash payment direct to Mr C should  be made but reduced as Ive 
set out below. 
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as 
at the date of my final decision, and using  the most recent financial assumptions  published  
at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision. 
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to get Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P  
entitlement. 
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension 
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance. 
If payment  into a pension  isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications,  it should  
be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
For example, if Mr C wouldnt  yet have taken a tax-free cash  sum from the employers 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mr C within  90 days of the date Meyado 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to 
the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to 
pay Mr C this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
Ref: DRN704368516period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply. 
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the incentive
payment Mr C received.  It should do this by applying  a withdrawal of £18,350 from the
calculation on the date Mr C actually received the lump sum (31 October  2012).  
Its possible Mr C could face an unauthorised payment charge. But whether that will be the 
case and, if so, what amount Mr C might have  to pay is uncertain. Meyado  should give Mr C 
an undertaking to meet  any unauthorised payment charge that may in the future arise. 
Meyado may require,  if Mr C is redressed in full, that he provides an undertaking to pay 
Meyado any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Meyado will need  to meet any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking. 
I understand that Mr Cs SIPP was closed some time ago so I dont need to consider any 
award for future SIPP fees. 
Meyado should  also pay Mr C £250  for the worry and upset this matter  has caused him.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Limited must redress 
Mr C as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7043685