K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt repaired his car following an 
accident claim made on his motor  insurance  policy. Mr H has also complained  that AXA 
accepted a 50/50 split of the liability  for the accident  when he doesnt think  it was his fault.
background
Mr H said that in 2015 he had an accident  as he reversed out of a parking bay, where  he 
was permitted to park,  onto a dual carriageway. He said a car reversed up the dual 
carriageway and collided with his car.   
AXA and the third partys  insurer  (TPI) and solicitors  entered into lengthy correspondence  
about the circumstances and details  of the claims. AXA and the TPI disagreed about who 
was at fault for the accident  and also in respect to the amount claimed for injuries by 
passengers who were in the third partys  car.
In November 2016 AXA told Mr H that it had offered to resolve liability for the accident  by 
splitting liability on a 50/50 basis. Mr H said this should mean that no one would be paid for a 
claim, but he said AXA allocated funds to pay the third party.  AXA explained to Mr H why it 
thought this was the right way to settle the claims.
In 2018 the TPI took legal action against AXA and Mr H about its claims.  Mr H said he 
wanted his claim to go to court as he didnt  think he was responsible  for the accident, but he 
said AXA wasnt willing  to do this. AXA and the TPI agreed the settlement  amount on the 
claims and the split liability without a court hearing.
Mr H complained to AXA that he's been driving  his unrepaired car for three years as AXA 
wont repair it unless he pays his excess. He said this was unfair.  And he said that dealing 
with his claim had cost him over five days work and he wanted this to be compensated by 
AXA. 
AXA told Mr H that he and the other driver  were  both reversing when  the accident occurred 
and it thought, from the photos and reports, splitting liability was fair. AXA also said there  
was no CCTV or other independent evidence. So it said that, if the claim went to court, the 
judge may well decide  that both parties should  take some  responsibility and settle  the claim 
on a 50/50 basis.  AXA said that, as there were no certainties,  it was appropriate to settle the 
claim without  running the risk of the increased costs in going to trial. AXA told Mr H if he paid 
the excess it would repair his car, but it said that he refused to pay any excess.  
AXA told Mr H it settled the claim on a without prejudice basis and so he isnt prevented 
from recovering any losses hes incurred. AXA said Mr H could recover half of his excess  
because liability for the accident was split. And it said that, as the claim has been  open since  
2015, his premiums will have been affected at subsequent renewals.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said liability for the 
accident was disputed by the TPI who told AXA it would  go to court if necessary. She said 
AXA was entitled  under the policy to decide how to deal with a claim. And she said that from 
the evidence thats been provided, it was fair for AXA to settle the claim on split liability.
The investigator said Mr H wants AXA to pay for the repairs  to his car, but he hasnt paid his 
excess. She said she wouldnt expect an insurance company to repair  a car unless the 
Ref: DRN75000812policyholder has paid the excess  in the policy. And she added  that the third party probably 
had to pay an excess to get their repairs done.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. He said he wasnt at fault for the accident as you cant  
reverse up a dual carriageway as the other party did. He said the other party  has had their 
claim paid and said he should have his claim paid too. Mr H requested  an ombudsman 
review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  I know this will disappoint  him, but I hope  the reasons  Im about  to 
give will help him to understand  why Ive reached  this conclusion.
Mr H is unhappy that AXA has agreed  with the TPI to split liability for the accident. Its not my 
role to decide who was actually  at fault for an accident. Instead, I must look at whether, in 
reaching its decision to accept liability, AXA acted fairly and reasonably   in particular 
whether its taken everything into account before it came to the decision it did. 
Under the terms of the policy, AXA is entitled to defend and settle  a claim as it sees fit. It 
also doesnt need Mr Hs approval of any decision to admit  liability, settle a claim or make  a 
payment to the third party. And this is a standard term found in most car insurance policies. 
We think an insurer can rely on this term as long as it does so fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances.
Ive gone on to look the facts and evidence in this case to see if, in making its decision on 
liability for the accident, AXA acted  fairly  and reasonably. AXA said that both parties were  
reversing when they collided. And it said there was no CCTV or independent  evidence,  so it 
said its one partys word against  the other  as to who was to blame.  AXA said the TPI was 
willing to go to court unless the claim was settled  on a 50/50 basis and had issued 
proceedings. And it said in this situation an insurer has to decide if it would be able to defend 
the claim in court. AXA is entitled to decide to settle a claim without taking it to court  in order 
to reduce its costs. It said it acted  on its legal advice about  splitting liability for the accident. 
Ive seen the accident descriptions, photos  and engineers report that AXA considered in 
deciding liability for the claim. AXA has told us that its position on liability was considered by 
its solicitors. I havent seen a legal  opinion in support of AXAs decision, but Mr H hasnt 
provided any compelling evidence that challenges AXAs  position.  And I havent  seen 
anything to show that AXA didnt take everything  into account before coming to the 
conclusion it did. Ultimately I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to accept split liability 
for the accident  from the information available.
Mr H said he is willing to go to court and defend the claim. This option remains  open  to Mr H 
as the claim has been settled on a without prejudice  basis, but this would be at his own cost.
Mr H is unhappy that AXA hasnt repaired his car. He said that he doesnt  think  he should 
have to pay the £500 voluntary excess that was agreed when the policy was taken out as 
he says he wasnt at fault for the accident. But, its a requirement of the policy that he pays 
the contractual excess in the event  of a claim  irrespective of whether hes at fault for the 
accident or not  before  repairs are made. As Mr H hasnt paid the excess, I don't think  it 
was unreasonable for AXA to have not arranged for any repairs to be carried  out. If Mr H 
Ref: DRN75000813would now like to pay the policy  excess,  then I think AXA would be required to make  the 
repairs. As the TPI has accepted 50% fault liability, Mr H could then recover  50% of his 
excess from the TPI. But it is up to Mr H to do this as his excess is an uninsured loss.
Mr H said that AXA should  compensate  him for his loss of earnings in the time taken to deal 
with his claim. It generally follows from an insurance  claim that a policyholder will be 
inconvenienced and will have to spend time in helping the insurers to resolve the claim. 
Although the dispute about liability for the accident  took a long time to resolve, Mr Hs claim 
could have been dealt with on his payment  of the excess had he wished to have  his car 
repaired. He hasnt done that and so I dont  think AXA is to blame for his car not being  
repaired. I havent seen anything to show that the loss of earnings Mr H has mentioned was 
caused by any unreasonable  action of AXAs and so it wouldnt be fair for me to require AXA 
to compensate Mr H for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7500081