K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a fixed rate commercial loan.
Background
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
18 March 2019,  a copy of which is attached and forms  part of my final decision.
Mr A runs a sole-trader farm business. In May 2009  he took a £200,000 fixed rate 
commercial loan. The interest rate was fixed for the full 15-year term of the loan. In 2018  
Mr A complained, saying  the loan was mis-sold. Lloyds concluded that more could have 
been done to explain the potential size of the break  costs. It offered to put Mr A in the 
position he would have been if the fixed rate had terminated on the date of the complaint, 
with a reduced break cost. Unhappy with the banks response, Mr A referred  his complaint to 
us.
I thought it was likely that if Mr A had been given  full information about  the scale of the 
potential break costs, he would still have fixed the interest rate, but for a shorter period. My 
provisional decision was that Lloyds should  put Mr A in the position he would have been in if 
hed fixed the interest  rate for ten years  from the outset.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything further in response to my findings.
Lloyds said it disagreed with my provisional  decision, but to resolve the complaint it was 
willing to make a commercial offer in line with the decision.
Mr A said he wished  to accept the provisional decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence  has been submitted by the parties and Mr A is willing to accept the 
decision, I dont  depart from my provisional  decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Lloyds Bank PLC to put Mr A in the position he would have 
been in if hed chosen a 15-year loan with the interest rate fixed  for ten years,  rather than the 
existing 15-year fixed rate loan.
The award should reflect the following considerations:
The replacement loan should run from the original start date.
At the end of the fixed rate period the loan should revert to the banks standard 
variable rate plus 1% margin.
The bank  should reimburse the difference between the repayments made on the 
original loan and those due on the replacement loan.
Ref: DRN76153382The bank  should add compensatory interest  at 8% simple  per annum to the 
reimbursed payments from the date the costs  arose to the date of settlement.
The bank  should not charge Mr A any break costs.
If the bank  believes  its legally obliged to deduct  tax from the interest,  it should  send
a tax deduction certificate with the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN76153383COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him a fixed rate commercial loan.
Background
Mr A runs a sole-trader  farm business.  In May 2009 he took a £200,000 fixed  rate commercial loan.  
Interest was fixed at an all-in  rate of 5.16%  (later  reduced to 5.145%) for the full 15-year  term of the 
loan. 
In November 2018 Mr A complained to Lloyds, saying  the loan was mis-sold. Lloyds concluded that 
more could  have been done  to explain  the potential size of break costs associated  with the loan. It 
offered to put Mr A in the position he would  have  been  if the fixed  rate terminated on the date of the 
complaint, with a reduced break cost based on the what Mr A might have expected from the 
illustration shown to him at the time of sale. 
Unhappy with the banks  response, Mr A referred his complaint  to us. His representative said the 
duration of the fixed rate should be reduced to five years at maximum.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She concluded  that Lloyds had made a fair offer to settle 
the complaint. She gave  these reasons, in summary:
From the evidence  shed seen, she couldnt say the bank told Mr A he needed to take a fixed  
rate. The lending  was already in place  on a variable  rate basis  and there was no requirement 
to fix the rate to make sure he met any affordability criteria.
The information provided by the bank at the time indicated there would be a break  cost for 
early exit, and there  was background showing how the calculation would  be made. But she 
didnt think the information was clear enough for Mr A to know how much the break cost 
would be in different  circumstances.
Having said that, she didnt think Mr A would have done  anything differently if hed known how 
high the break costs could  be. He still had the majority  of his lending  on a variable rate and he 
would have  been  able to repay that without any penalty if his circumstances changed.
The 15-year  term of the fixed  rate coincided  with Mr As existing variable rate loan which was 
due to mature  in January 2024.
Mr A didnt agree  with the investigators  conclusions and asked for the case  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. His representative made the following  points, in summary:
Mr A didnt want a fixed rate loan.  He came under a great deal of sales pressure from his 
local manager and felt he had to agree in an attempt to establish  and retain  a good 
relationship with the bank.
To have  a fixed rate hadnt even occurred  to him, as variable rates  were so low and forecast 
to remain so. Its counter-intuitive to believe hed want to increase one of his fixed  costs  by so 
much.
To a farmer, the banks explanation of break costs would have been absolutely  
incomprehensible. The bank didnt meet its obligations under the Business Banking Code or 
the requirement to make  onerous  contract terms clear.
Ref: DRN76153384Its very hard to guess what  Mr A might have done, had the bank given full information about 
the loan. But he categorically says that if hed known hed be locked in for 15 years and it 
would cost him much more, he wouldnt  even have considered it.
Fifteen years is far too long to lock a farmer into a fixed rate.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im not persuaded  that the bank applied pressure to get Mr A to put some of his lending on a fixed 
rate. I havent  seen any evidence of pressure  from the time of the sale, or any evidence that Mr A 
complained at the time about any pressure  or even remarked on it.
The Bank  of England base rate at the time was 0.5%  a historic  low. Interest rates  had recently been 
volatile and no one knew how they would  move in the future. Rates  had fallen steeply  only a year 
previously the base  rate had been 5.0%. I think it would  have been reasonable to be concerned that 
rates might  rise during a 15-year loan term. In my view,  fixing the interest rate on Mr As borrowing 
would have seemed attractive at the time, to give security from the risk of increased rates  in the 
future. Ive seen no evidence that Mr A intended to pay off all the borrowing early,  so I dont think the 
risk of early exit costs  would have outweighed the advantages  of known,  stable repayments for a 
substantial part of the loan term. About half of Mr As borrowing was left on a variable  rate, giving  him 
flexibility to make  part repayments if he needed to. 
The price of the loan was made clear to Mr A. The fixed rate of 5.16% was higher than the variable  
rate he was paying at the time (and which he continued to pay on the rest of the loan balance). I 
believe Mr A had a good grasp of the financial and accounting side of his business, so I think he 
would have been conscious  of the price  difference,  and capable of making a commercial decision 
about it. Im satisfied that Mr A understood and accepted  the level of interest he would be paying on 
the fixed  rate loan going  forward. Its common ground that Lloyds didnt  give enough  information  
about the potential cost of early exit, but I think 
Mr A was fully informed about the routine  costs  of the loan.
For the above  reasons,  I agree with the investigator that Mr A would still have taken  a fixed rate loan 
even if the bank  had given him a full explanation of the potential break  costs.  But thats not the end of 
the matter. His borrowing was for 15 years, and Im not convinced he would have wanted to fix the 
interest rate for the entire period if hed fully understood the break cost risk. If hed fully appreciated  
the risk, I think  its likely that Mr A would  have  regarded 15 years  as too long to be locked in by the 
potential break costs,  even though it would  have given him certainty of his payments for the full 
duration.
Mr As representative argues  that he would  have  chosen  to fix for five years  maximum. But theres  no 
evidence to suggest Mr A wanted to fix the rate for such a period, and I think  Mr A would have valued  
certainty about his payments  further into the 15-year  term of the loan. Its not possible to tell exactly 
what would have happened, so I have to base my decision on what  I think  is most likely, taking into 
account all the circumstances of the case. On balance  I think  its likely Mr A would  have chosen to fix 
for ten years.
I asked Lloyds  for indicative figures for the redress that would be payable if the original loan were 
replaced by a ten-year fixed rate loan. The bank has provided the calculations, which show the 
redress would be higher than the existing offer. 
Lloyds has reiterated  that Mr A was engaged in the discussion about  refinancing  his existing debt with 
the bank and ultimately it was his choice, based on his business needs at the time,  to move  £200,000  
of his existing variable  rate loan to a fixed rate loan; he chose the fixed  period to coincide with the 
term of his existing variable  rate loan, which  was due to mature in January 2024; and theres  no 
Ref: DRN76153385evidence from the time to suggest Mr A intended  to repay the fixed  rate loan before  its maturity.  The 
bank says its impossible  to ascertain what exactly,  if anything,  Mr A would have done differently, 
without using  the benefit of hindsight. Lloyds still believes its settlement offer would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint.
In response to the banks points, I accept Mr A chose the fixed  rate loan with the 15-year term based  
on his business needs at the time. But when he assessed  the balance of risks and benefits  of the 
deal, it wasnt a fully-informed assessment. For the reasons  Ive given above,  I believe  that if hed 
been given more information about the scale of the potential break  costs,  then he would have come to 
a more  cautious view  even  taking into account that the fixed  rate covered only half his borrowing. I 
think its likely he would still have chosen the fix, but for a shorter period.  Its my view that, with the 
additional information, Mr A would have seen ten years as a reasonable balance. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to require Lloyds Bank PLC to put Mr A in the position  he 
would have been in if hed chosen a 15-year loan with the interest rate fixed  for ten years, rather than 
the existing 15-year fixed rate loan.
The award  should reflect the following considerations:
The replacement  loan should run from the original start date.
At the end of the fixed rate period the loan should  revert to the banks standard variable  rate 
plus 1% margin.
The bank should reimburse the difference between the repayments made  on the original loan 
and those  due on the replacement loan.
The bank should add compensatory interest at 8% simple per annum to the reimbursed 
payments from the date the costs arose to the date of settlement.
The bank should not charge Mr A any break costs.
If the bank  believes its legally obliged to deduct tax from the interest, it should  send
a tax deduction  certificate with the payment.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7615338