K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Skrill Limited reversed a payment  on his account,  and has now 
withdrawn its services  to him. 
background
Skrill is an e-money business.  It allows users to make and receive payments online. Mr P 
had a Skrill account, denominated in euros. He said he used it to receive payments for a 
digital product he sold. He told us that a payment for €57.58  that he received  through Skrill 
was reversed. But he said hed sent the item that was purchased. 
Then Skrill told Mr P it was closing his account. Mr P wanted Skrill to reopen  his account, to 
invalidate the transaction  reversal which Skrill had noted as cancelled and to credit  his 
account with that payment. 
Skrill said that it had cancelled the transaction into Mr Ps account because  it had received a 
fraud notification from one of its partners.  And it said it had closed Mr Ps account because  
he was using his account in a way that breached its terms and conditions. 
Mr P received a number  of payments into his Skrill account. He said he sold a digital 
product. He hasnt  clearly  identified to us what product  he was selling. 
Skrill thought he was trading digital currency. It sent us a call recording where  Mr P says that 
he trades online. There is then the following exchange - 
What kind of service you provide? 
I sell digital currency
Skrill says it limits the uses to which users  can put its accounts. It includes in its terms of 
use, a list of businesses that it will only allow its users to engage in after its given its 
agreement. The list includes currency  exchanges.  Skrill also says that if customers  are in 
doubt about whether their business falls within these categories, they must ask it first. 
Not all digital  currencies  are cryptocurrencies, but they are perhaps the most well known 
form of digital currency. Skrill has separate terms and conditions for cryptocurrencies which 
dont allow  trading. 
Skrill said it was satisfied  Mr P had breached its terms and conditions, and thats why it had 
closed his account. It said that those terms of use, which restrict the businesses that can 
trade using  its e-money account,  also allow  it to reverse the transaction. 
Skrill also said that it had received notification  from its processing partner that the 
transaction Mr P received  was fraudulent.  It hasnt  given us any more information  on that.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that businesses  can make their own 
commercial decision about  who they do business  with. And Skrill doesnt have to tell a 
customer why it will no longer do business with it. 
Our investigator also said that Skrill has reserved the right to reverse  payments in its terms 
and conditions. So she said that if Mr P didnt have  the money, or the product, he would 
have to sort this out with his customer. Skrill had only acted within its terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN73430952Mr P didnt agree. He wanted to know how Skrill could reverse  the transaction,  so he ended  
up without the product  he sold, or the money for it. He said this seemed to him to be fraud.  
He hadnt been told why the payment was cancelled, and he didnt think that was anywhere  
close to a fair outcome. He gave a number of possible  scenarios  of what had happened  to 
his money, but said that he didnt know which one of those we thought had happened. 
Mr P said that payment  orders cannot be cancelled once consent is given. He suggested his 
account had been closed  because hed complained about being  defrauded.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Our investigator didnt  think Skrill had to tell Mr P why it was withdrawing its service  from 
him. But it had given him some  reasons for that, so I thought I should look at this.
-Skrill thought  Mr P was using  his account  with it to accept payments for digital currency.  I 
knew Mr P said to Skrill, in emails, that this wasnt what  he was doing. But those emails 
didnt clearly explain what Mr P was doing. And Mr P said, on a call to Skrill, that he was 
trading in digital  currencies.  So Skrill was entitled  to reach the view that this was what  he 
was doing.
I hadnt asked  Mr P to show  us what hes trading  in. That was because I would still think  
that it was reasonable for Skrill  to have reached the view that it did at the time, even if 
Mr P could  show us now that he was really doing  something  else.
-Skrill said its terms for cryptocurrencies dont allow  users  to trade in those currencies. I 
read those terms, and that was right. They only allow users to buy and sell specific  
cryptocurrencies through Skrills  own brokerage service. 
-Skrill also said that what  Mr P was doing seemed to it to be quite similar to a money 
exchange service. Although digital currencies or cryptocurrencies are not usually 
considered to be legal tender, in the same way as fiat money like the pound or the euro, I 
still thought this was a fair comparison for Skrill to make. If Mr P was selling 
cryptocurrency in particular, or indeed any wider form of digital currency, for fiat money, 
then he seemed to me to be providing a broadly similar exchange service. So it was fair 
and reasonable for Skrill to say that Mr P, by apparently selling digital currency  and 
receiving payments for that using  his Skrill account, without  asking it first, had breached  
its terms and conditions. 
-I knew Skrill also mentioned other  reasons for closing  Mr Ps account.  But for the 
reasons Id set out above, my decision was that Skrill was entitled to close Mr Ps 
account. And, as our investigator said, businesses make their own decisions about who 
they deal with. That meant Skrill  didnt  have to reopen the account  now.
-Mr P also complained that Skrill had reversed a transaction for €57.58, and hadnt told 
him why it had done that. I wouldnt necessarily expect Skrill always to share with a 
customer all the reasons why it had reversed the transaction.  That may sometimes be 
information that it doesnt want, or isnt able to share with its customers. 
Ref: DRN73430953-But I would expect  Skrill  to be able to offer some explanation  either to Mr P or to our 
service, about why it had done that. And if it didnt  feel it could explain this to Mr P, Id 
expect it to set that out for us too. Otherwise I couldnt see that what it had done was fair 
and reasonable.  
-Skrill just said its terms of use allow it to reverse transactions. I accepted  that. But when 
it does that, it has to act fairly. Skrill explained to us why it did that here. But its 
explanation was a very brief one. If I accepted what it had said, I didnt think  that the 
reason it had given  was sufficient to show either Mr P, or us, that it had acted fairly here.  
-Mr P hadnt asked for compensation. He just asked for his €57.58 back. Although  I 
thought that Skrill may have been  permitted to reverse this transaction  under its terms of 
use, I hadnt been able to see that it acted fairly  and reasonably  in doing so. Mr P was 
deeply suspicious about what had happened, and I hadnt been able to reassure him 
about this. So I thought Skrill should pay Mr P some compensation  for that. 
-Mr P asked  for €57.58, which was the value of the transaction  it reversed,  and I thought 
that provided a fair outcome to this part of his complaint. But, for the reasons Id set out 
above, Skrill didnt  have to reopen  his account.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Skrill wrote  to us to say that the payment Mr P received into his account originated from 
fraudulent transactions. Once it was made  aware  of this, the transaction was reversed, and 
both accounts  were terminated.  Skrill  said Mr P had been the victim of fraud, and it 
suggested that he contact the police. It said it would cooperate with any investigation, but it 
didnt think it should have to pay this money  back. 
Mr Ps payment was reversed in November 2018.  If Skrill  thought  that Mr P was a victim  of 
fraud, and he ought to approach the police about that, then I think it should  have  told him so 
clearly well before now. He has much less chance of recovering any money now.  For those 
reasons, I still think its appropriate  for Skrill to pay Mr P €57.58 in compensation.
Mr P agreed that Skrill should give his money  back.  But he didnt think  it should be allowed 
to close his account. He said that cryptocurrencies  are currencies in name only. Skrill is 
known as a financial  institution through which people buy and sell cryptocurrencies, but it 
only buys and sells interests in cryptocurrency, though a contract for difference.  Skrills  
customers cant use it, withdraw it, or do anything else with it. He said that it would be 
hypocrisy on Skrills behalf  to say people are not allowed to trade cryptocurrencies, which  is 
why its not specified in their terms and conditions. He said Skrill only prohibits customers 
having interests in cryptocurrencies because thats  what it does.
Mr P said that Skrill is an electronic money  company,  which is a public institution  the same  
as banks. This means the business is open  to the general public. So he didnt think it should 
be allowed to choose its customers. 
Ref: DRN73430954Whatever the reasons behind Skrills  decision  not to allow  its users  to trade in 
cryptocurrencies, that is what it has done. And Skrill thought Mr P had breached the terms of 
his account. I explained  that I thought  that was a reasonable conclusion  for Skrill to have 
reached. So it closed his account. Ive also explained that I thought that was a reasonable 
response for it to make.
Our service doesnt usually require businesses to open accounts for individuals. Mr P thinks 
it would  be wrong, and discriminatory,  for Skrill to be able to choose its customers. But Im 
only looking  here at the facts of Mr Ps case.  And I dont think its wrong  for Skrill to refuse to 
reopen an account for Mr P, when it has previously  closed that account for breaching the 
terms of its use. 
Mr P also said that he thought that the only reason  Skrill had told us that the payment he 
received was fraudulent was because it was liable for it, and taking someones money 
without justification  is a crime. I dont think theres  any suggestion that Skrill didnt genuinely  
believe this payment to be fraudulent, or that it has committed a crime. But I do think, for the 
reasons set out above, that Skrill should  pay Mr P this money back.
my final decision
My final decision is that Skrill Limited must pay Mr P €57.58.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7343095