K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the service shes received from TSB Bank plc in respect  of her 
bank accounts.
background
In the spring of 2018 Miss S contact TSB to report transactions, that she disputed making, 
having occurred  on her account.  Ultimately,  TSB has reimbursed her for the amount she 
disputes. However, TSB did initially block her account whilst it investigated. During this time, 
Miss S wasnt able to pay direct debits to her car insurer, phone provider, etc. And wasnt  
able to meet  other personal  financial  commitments.
Additionally, in April 2018, TSB also began having issues with its IT system,  which  caused 
Miss S to be unable to access her account  online. She was also unable to print off account 
statements, which were needed  in relation to court proceedings she was engaged in. 
Miss S spent many  hours on the phone trying to resolve the issues with TSB. And shes  
experienced various customer service related problems.  
I havent listed, in this decision, all of the points of concern  Miss S has raised, though  I have 
taken those into account that relate to this complaint. However,  for the sake  of clarity I have 
not considered  the closure of her accounts  by TSB,  which has been  raised  with this service 
separately. 
Miss S has also previously raised,  directly with TSB, various specific  concerns about her 
ability to use her account and the difficulties she had in contacting TSB. In response  to these 
TSB has said it has paid Miss S over £200 in compensation  and £83 in call costs. She is 
apparently satisfied with TSBs response  on these  points.  
I have not directly considered these issues in coming to my decision. But I have borne in 
mind the events that have taken place.
After Miss S brought  this complaint to our service, our investigator considered  the impact of 
Miss S having funds  missing from her account, the inability to access her account online or 
otherwise obtain  her statements,  and the customer service shes received around these 
issues. She felt that Miss S had been  significantly impacted by these events and 
recommended TSB pay £750 in compensation. 
TSB responded, offering  instead to pay £150  in direct compensation and to waive  the 
outstanding balance of Miss S overdraft (just under £840). Our investigator  felt this was a fair 
and reasonable outcome to the complaint. But Miss S didnt agree and her complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77933782Having transactions  taken  from your account is extremely distressing. But I should make  it 
clear that, in this case, I have not considered  who is liable for these transactions.  TSB has 
agreed to refund the disputed sums. So Ive just looked at whether Miss S was impacted by 
TSBs handling of the claim.  
It is reasonable that a bank carry out an investigation when receiving a claim about disputed  
transactions. However, the bank is required to carry out this investigation in a timely manner 
and in accordance  with other particular regulatory requirements. I dont consider TSB did this 
in this case. And as a result  Miss S has been negatively impacted.  She has experienced a 
high level of concern  and hasnt been able to make payments she otherwise would have. 
Additionally, Miss S hasnt had full use of her accounts in the way she would have expected 
to. As well as general issues with accessing  her money,  Miss S wasnt able to obtain  copies  
of her account statements as easily as she should have. Miss S has explained that this led 
to the family court proceedings she was involved  in being adjourned, and has provided 
evidence from the court to this effect. 
Miss S has also provided evidence of the many  hours she spent on the phone  to TSB. I 
appreciate TSBs comments  that Miss Ss expectations were set in initial  calls and yet she 
continued to call. But, given the circumstances she was experiencing, I dont find this overly  
surprising. Fortunately,  due to her phone plan, Miss S wasnt  directly charged for these calls 
by her provider. 
Miss S has raised some concerns about the handling of some of the calls shes  had with 
TSB. And also about a number of other customer service aspects, including receiving 
incorrectly addressed  correspondence. I have taken  all of these points  into account. 
I have borne in mind  the other previous issues Miss S complained  about  separately and that 
these will have increased the trouble and upset she experienced with the current issues. 
I have also taken into account the fact that there was an existing agreement  to pay Miss Ss 
temporary overdraft balance off over time,  but also that the facility was continuing to be 
used. And whilst I recognise Miss S is experiencing some financial difficulties, she will have 
received several  hundred pounds in direct compensation,  as well as having  her debt cleared. 
Taking everything into account,  it is clear TSB hasnt provided Miss S with the service  she 
could reasonably expect. But I do consider that TSBs offer of £150  direct compensation and 
the waiving of the overdraft balance to be fair and reasonable. As TSBs offer is to clear  the 
balance of the account, this also takes  into account any interest  accrued by the disputed 
transactions not being in Miss S account for a period of time.
Ref: DRN77933783my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
If it has not already  done so TSB Bank  plc should  pay Miss S £150 direct  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  shes experienced, and waive  any outstanding sum due from 
her account  overdraft.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7793378