K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
1995. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Cs signed  credit  card application form. On balance,  I think 
Barclays made it clear that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand if he cant remember that now after all this time.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time and from experience  of 
what the key features  of the PPI were likely to have been, I think that it was. For example 
he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to, or limits on, the PPI cover  and he seems  
to have had a need for the cover, especially  as he most recently told us he had no 
savings or other insurance and was only entitled to statutory sick pay.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But he chose to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr C about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats fair in this 
case.
What the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr C any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr C the difference 
between what he owes and what he would have  owed  if the commission and profit  share it 
Ref: DRN75056882got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr C 8%* simple  
interest if Mr C paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7505688