K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Mr and Mrs H. However, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs H accept that they knew the PPI was optional   they say that Mr H reminded 
the bank adviser  of this. But they do feel that a great deal of pressure was put on them.  
They said the adviser:
Warned of a high risk of not getting  a mortgage approved if we didnt have PPI. The 
bottom line was no PPI no mortgage!  We consider  it was misleading to stress the 
risk of not getting  the mortage.
However I was of course not there, and it would be hard for me to know  whether the 
adviser overstepped the mark in how strongly he recommended the PPI, and whether 
what he actually said amounted to unfair pressure. Especially as this happened so long 
ago, it would not be fair for me to conclude that the bank adviser  acted unfairly unless I 
had more supporting  evidence   which I realise would be very difficult for Mr and Mrs H 
to provide. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mrs H (the person who was to be covered at the time) received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when they would 
need to fall back on any savings. This all would  have  put Mr and Mrs H in a more  secure  
position, if they eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the cost of the policy. But I dont anyway 
think full and clear information  about  the costs  would  have affected whether 
Mr and Mrs H took the PPI.
Ref: DRN75397012Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been affected  by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7539701