K821x#15complaint
Mrs Es complaint is about the handling  of a claim made under her central heating  insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited. Mrs E is represented in this complaint by her son, 
Mr E, and so I will refer to him throughout. 
background
In late September  2018, Mr E made a claim under the policy with British  Gas, as the boiler in 
his mothers home had stopped working. It was apparently showing two fault codes, which  
indicated a fault with the ignition  and also the water  in the system. 
British Gas sent out an engineer who said that the problem with the boiler had been  caused 
by the installation of new radiators by a private contractor.  The policy excludes any issues  
arising from third party  interference which is what British Gas deemed this to be. It also 
said it meant the policy was void. 
Mr E says he was having some renovation  work done on the house, including  installation of 
new radiators, but his contractor had not touched the boiler. As British  Gas wouldnt help,  
and Mr E was without heating or hot water, he instructed  his own engineer to fix the boiler. 
Mr E says he found the earth wire had become  detached, which is dangerous and he also 
identified a number  of parts which needed to be replaced, including  a pump and a 
programmer. His contractor fixed the boiler  at a cost of £1,063.20. 
I understand that around the same time British Gas serviced the boiler and confirmed it was 
working and agreed  that it would continue to cover it, (but not the radiators).  British  Gas then 
said that it would reimburse the £1,063.20  for the repairs and pay £200 compensation. 
However, the next day Mr E says he was told this offer was withdrawn  as it had been made 
in error.  
Mr E is very unhappy about the refusal  to meet the costs of the claim and the way the offer 
was withdrawn; he also says the call-handler that withdrew  the offer was aggressive. Mr E 
also says the boiler had been left dangerous and had not been  well maintained,  even though 
British Gas had covered  it for some  time and it was well overdue a service  when this 
happened. 
British Gas maintained  its position regarding the claim but offered  £30 for incorrectly  telling 
Mr E that it would reimburse the costs  of the repair. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  that it be upheld and that 
British Gas reimburse the repair  costs and also pay £200 compensation for the handling of 
the claim and complaint,  including telling Mr E it would meet  his claim and then retracting 
that offer. 
British Gas does  not accept the investigators assessment and maintains its position.  It says 
its service manager believed the pump could have been  damaged  whilst the third party 
contractor carried out the work to the radiators; the boiler had been  working  following a 
previous visit in March  2018; and when it attended  the property the occupant said the boiler 
had only stopped working since  the new radiators had been  installed.
 
Ref: DRN70770492As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es policy  with British Gas covers his boiler if it stops working  but this cover  is subject to 
terms and conditions, including  the following: 
If anyone  other than us carries out any work on your boiler,  appliance or system and 
damages it your cover  doesnt include putting  that right
Your product only includes repairing or replacing  your boiler, appliance  or system when it 
stops working properly   it doesnt include any improvements  or upgrades,  for example: 
replacing working radiators, swapping standard  radiator  valves for thermostatic ones and 
replacing electrical cables  and fuse boards that still work.
So if the work done by Mr Es contractor caused the problems with the boiler, British Gas 
would be entitled  to refuse to pay for that. I also think  the way this is expressed means the 
work done by any third party  would need  to have been carried out incorrectly.  So if some  
work is done correctly  but it simply has an affect  on the system which  causes a fault I do not 
think it would  be reasonable for British Gas to refuse  to cover  that. 
I accept what British  Gas says about  the possibility of doing damage to the boiler itself, even 
if it is not directly touched  while  replacing  radiators. It is after all part of a system. However, 
having said that, I am not persuaded that British Gas has established that the problems with 
the boiler are all due to the work done  on the radiators.  In order to rely on the exclusion set 
out above, British Gas needs to establish  on the balance of probabilities  (i.e. that it is more  
likely than not) that the problems with the boiler are a result  of the work done by Mr Es 
contractor and that the work was done incorrectly. I am not persuaded it has done so. 
British Gas says: the pump could have been  damaged whilst the third party carried out the 
work if it was not correctly  drained or potentially disturbed whilst working on the system. 
Having looked  at the other work carried out, the programmers and controls  would not have 
any relation to the F22 code and wouldnt have needed to be replaced along with the flow 
and return thermistor (my emphasis). 
British Gas has only said the pump could have been damaged  if the work with the radiators 
was not done properly  but there is nothing to support this. I accept that it could have caused  
the damage to the pump (I see no reason to dispute  this possibility)  but this does not 
establish that it did, or that it was done incorrectly. I am not persuaded that this is enough  to 
establish that British Gas is not responsible. 
British Gas also says that the fault codes  Mr E reported, wouldnt mean the other parts 
needed to be replaced. Again, I am not persuaded that this establishes its position  either.  
Mr Es engineer has stated these  were required in order to repair the boiler.  British  Gas had 
the opportunity  to inspect and assess the boiler  properly and provide more  evidence about 
this, but I have not seen a detailed report. I therefore  have no reason to doubt that these 
were required  to repair the boiler,  as stated by Mr Es engineer. 
British Gas also says that its engineer was told the boiler only stopped  working after the new 
Ref: DRN70770493radiators were installed. This might be right but it doesnt establish that the contractor  did 
any of that work incorrectly/negligently and caused  the faults.  
Finally, British Gas also refers to the fact the boiler was left working  after an attendance  
around six months earlier, as proof that the faults  were caused by the works  Mr E was 
having done. I dont consider that this adds any weight to British  Gass case. Faults  can 
develop at any time. 
Given this, I consider that British Gas should  reimburse the cost of the boiler  repairs, 
together with interest at our usual rate. I also agree with the investigator  that Mr E was 
caused some avoidable  distress  and inconvenience by the handling of this claim and 
complaint, including the withdrawal of the offer.  I agree that the additional sum of £200 is 
reasonable to reflect  this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to:
 
reimburse the costs  incurred in fixing the boiler, together  with interest at 8% simple  
per annum, since the date Mr E paid those repairs to the date of reimbursement; and 
pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of 
the matter (this is to include  the £30 British  gas previously offered, so if it has paid 
this already, it now only need to pay the balance of £170). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision, on behalf of Mrs E, before 24 February 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077049