K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about the way that Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) treated his 
compensation following the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr G had taken four personal loans with Lloyds which had PPI attached. This complaint 
relates to the personal loan account ending 6471. Mr G took the personal loan in June 2007  
and it finished  in July 2009. 
In 2018, Mr G complained  to Lloyds that the PPI policy  sold alongside the loan ending  6471 - 
as well as the other  three - had been mis-sold to him. Lloyds agreed and offered to pay 
compensation for the cost of all the policies plus interest.
But in 2009 Mr G had previously entered into an individual voluntary  agreement (IVA) and 
an insolvency practitioner (IP)  was appointed.  This is a type of insolvency,  where  he was to 
pay off as much of his debts as he had to under the IVA. 
In 2011, Mr Gs circumstances changed significantly, which resulted in him being  medically  
retired from work. Mr G was told by his IP that the IVA had been varied. And in August 2011 
he was told that the IVA had been  completed. 
As the loan and PPI policy were taken out before Mr G entered into his IVA, Lloyds paid the 
PPI compensation  to Mr Gs IP.
Mr G has complained about Lloyds paying the compensation to the IP. He thought  the 
money was payable to him because the IVA was completed.  He says that because of his 
exceptional circumstances  of him being  medically retired, the compensation is due to him.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She didnt think  Lloyds had acted unfairly by paying 
the IP. Mr Gs IP had said they had an interest in the compensation and she said if Mr G 
didnt agree he should complain to the IP directly.  
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicator. He said that the IVA had completed and the 
compensation was payable  to him.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has already agreed  to uphold Mr Gs complaint so I wont be looking at the sale of the 
policy. I will only be considering whether what Lloyds has done with the compensation is fair. 
When Mr G finished his IVA he was released from his debts.  So I can understand why, from 
Mr Gs point of view,  he feels  that this meant he didn't owe anything  further.  
But even after the IVA is completed, while this released Mr G from any liability  to the IVA 
creditors, it didn't extinguish those debts. It just means that the creditors  cant  take any 
Ref: DRN78615802action against  Mr G for those debts  any more. The IVA effectively draws  a line under whats  
happened  so Mr Gs assets from before the IVA got used to pay off as much of his debt as 
possible, in order  that his assets from after the IVA was completed dont get used.  
But when Mr G entered into the IVA he agreed to pay some of his assets to the IP to be 
used to pay his creditors. And in this case, the PPI compensation could be considered as an 
asset even though it was one that Mr G wasnt aware of at the time he entered  into the IVA. 
But once it became available it could be included as an asset  within the IVA, and even upon 
completion of the IVA. 
So I dont  think Lloyds  were at fault for paying  the compensation to Mr Gs IP. It is then for 
the IP to decide how to use the compensation, whether to use it to clear some  more of 
Mr Gs unpaid debts or pay some or all of it to Mr G. And that seems fair. 
If Mr G thinks that his IP should have done something different with the compensation paid 
to it by Lloyds, he should  raise  that with his IP in the first instance.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint as I dont think Lloyds Bank PLC has 
done anything  wrong. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861580