K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about advice from Greystone Financial Services  Limited (Greystone) to 
invest in unregulated investments Rock City Park (Rock City), Rock UK Industrial Fund 
(Rock Industrial) and initial investments in Brandeaux  Student Accommodation and 
Brandeaux Ground  Rent  Income (Brandeaux funds), via his self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP) and his personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr B has several other complaints with this service relating to investments which were held 
in his SIPP and PPP. These are being considered separately.
background
In a recommendation letter dated  19 October  2006 a Greystone adviser (the adviser) noted 
the following  about Mr Bs pensions:
He had an A J Bell SIPP established  in December 2003 with a transfer value of 
£338,340 and subsequent contributions  totalling £59,230. It was currently (October  
2006) worth  £444,897 before the switch to drawdown; 
In May 2006 the A J Bell SIPP went into drawdown with yearly  income  of £20,000  
and tax-free cash  of £111,224 in July 2006.  (Mr B increased  his income via the A J 
Bell SIPP  to £24,000 per year in November 2006);
He had a Transact PPP, which was established  in December 2003 to receive  
protected rights transfer from another PPP;
The Transact PPP had received  contributions of £377,232 and was worth  £458,659 
(in October 2006).
A J Bell SIPP statements for the period 30 December  2005 to May 2007  show Mr Bs main 
investments (including  cash) held by the end of this period  were  as follows:
Margetts Absolute Return - £119,250  (purchased 11 July 2006)
Margetts Unit Trust - £39,750  (purchased 11 July 2006)
Property (UCIS) Investments - £50,000
Cash - £87,500
In March 2006 the adviser said he was recommending the Margetts Absolute Return 
portfolio because he believed it was suitable given Mr Bs desire for capital growth  and that 
it matched his (Mr Bs) cautious/realistic approach to investment risk. The adviser  
explained this risk profile meant Mr B required an investment designed to give a 
conservative and relatively stable level of income  and capital growth.  And that Mr B 
accepts that returns may not be as high as that available for other investments but volatility  
should be lower  because of the greater emphasis on capital protection.
All of the Transact PPP was kept in line with the Greystone Absolute  Return portfolio which 
later changed its name to Defensive Return Portfolio. The adviser noted in March 2006 that 
the Absolute Return portfolio invested across five asset classes as follows:
Fixed  Interest  30%
UK Equity   27%
Total Return  17%
Property  26%
Ref: DRN79973982Mr Bs Transact PPP statement dated  4 May 2006 showed his pension funds were  invested  
as follows:
Fixed  Interest - £121,705
UK Equity  - £126,044
Total Return - £72,243
Property - £115,972
Mr Bs personal circumstances werent  noted in this recommendation  letter  dated 19 October 
2006. Other documents show that Mr Bs personal  and financial circumstances were  broadly 
as follows (excluding  pension fund assets and cash):
-He was in his late 50s and was married  with no dependent children;
-He jointly  owned his home  valued  at around £500,000  in a letter dated 10 May 
2006 it noted Mr and Mrs B had taken an offset mortgage of £50,000;
-He was retired (as of 10 February 2006);
-He had cash balances  of around £20,000  (10 May 2006); 
-He had £21,645 in a general investment account;
-He had Stocks and Shares ISA totalling £21,300;
-He had PEP Consolidation account totalling  £41,800.
Rock City  A J Bell SIPP
On 10 August 2006 Greystone sent Mr B an unsolicited letter  highlighting an investment 
opportunity for the Rock  City UCIS,  without providing advice. This led to further discussions 
and a suitability  letter dated 30 November 2006.  In this letter, the adviser  recommended  
Mr B invest  £25,000 in Rock City via his A J Bell SIPP. 
In his letter the adviser said he was recommending  Rock City because  it met with Mr Bs 
objective to achieve capital growth.  And he thought  the investment was suitable for Mr B 
because it offered further diversification  to your existing portfolio. The fund represents  an 
uncorrelated asset class designed  to complement  your existing holdings, and Rock Capital 
Group has a proven track  record,  although this is no guarantee of future returns.  
The adviser noted Mr Bs attitude to risk was balanced  which  he said meant you accept 
that in order to achieve your financial goals over the medium to long term there will be a 
higher degree  of risk to your capital in return for higher potential  income  and growth.
In summary,  the adviser noted  the following about  Rock City:
 
Rock City held in trust a distinctive (290,000 sq ft*) Grade-B listed art deco building  
offering modern office accommodation with a complete infrastructure of leisure  and 
retail facilities [(the  property)]. 
Rock City was a partnership which would be funded through a combination of cash 
raised and a limited  recourse bank loan  the limited recourse nature of the bank  
loan meant that in the event of the property falling in value  the exposure of investors 
would be limited  to the extent  of the initial cash investment;
It was highly geared with the bank loan anticipated to be 80% of the total fund capital; 
The minimum investment was £25,000;
The investment  period  was seven years; 
The advantages  of the scheme  were that it was projected to deliver  a yearly return 
Ref: DRN79973983of 10.5% net of all costs and fees over the seven year life of the fund effectively 
doubling the initial investment  this was not guaranteed;
The property had been acquired for £63,250,000 and was valued at £67,500,000  
representing a net initial yield of 6.15%;
It offered  an opportunity to hold an investment where the yields should increase over 
time as the rent reviews set out in the lease agreements are linked to RPI.
Amongst the risks Mr B was made  aware of, were:
It was difficult  to obtain information relating to the value of the investment or to sell 
the investments  before the sale of the property; 
Investors may not get back the full value of their investments and in certain 
circumstances could  lose all of their investments; 
The investment  was subject to risks of owning commercial property such  as general 
economic conditions, risk of void periods  and uninsured calamities;  
The level of debt used  could significantly magnify the effect  of any change  in property 
value;
The fund was unregulated so was suitable  only for experienced Investors and the 
protections normally offered by the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 and 
compensation under the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme do not apply.
In April 2010, investors were notified by the trustees of the fund that a significant tenant 
exercised its break clause, which was predicted to result in the Rock City fund breaching  its 
banking interest cover  covenant within the next year. The trustees noted that this indicated  a 
material uncertainty which would cast doubt over the funds ability to continue as a going 
concern and as a consequence, they intended to liquidate  the fund. The trustees  said they 
considered there was no realistic prospect of the investors making good the deficiency 
applicable to their respective holdings. 
In February 2011,  Greystone confirmed that investors would not see a return  of any of their 
capital. Greystones letter concluded  by saying On behalf of Greystone and your usual 
Adviser, I am truly sorry about this unfortunate outcome and the now virtual certain loss of 
your investment.
Brandeaux funds   Transact PPP
In a letter dated 30 November 2006, in which the adviser recommended the Rock City funds, 
he also recommended  that Mr B invest in the Brandeaux Student Accommodation fund 
(Student Accommodation fund) via his Transact PPP. At that point, the adviser was unsure 
whether Transact  would accept this fund but noted as soon as it confirmed it did, he (the 
adviser) would make a formal recommendation. The formal recommendation was 
subsequently made  on 21 April 2007.  
In this letter the adviser recorded Mr Bs intention  to withdraw the maximum tax-free cash 
and income via his Transact PPP. The letter confirmed  Mr Bs attitude  to risk was realistic 
which he said meant that he (Mr B) was willing to take a more  adventurous  profile to 
achieve your goals and that this may give rise to the possibility of short  term rises and falls 
and overall volatility  in the value of your capital .
As part of Mr Bs Transact PPP investment  portfolio  he recommended  that he invest in two 
UCIS funds,  namely, Brandeaux Student Accommodation (formerly Student  Success) and 
Brandeaux Ground  Rent  funds. These  both invested in student  accommodation,  ground  
Ref: DRN79973984rents and residential properties. Mr B invested just under  £25,000 into each of fund.
Brandeaux Ground  Rent  UCIS fact sheet said that one of its main  objectives was to deliver 
consistent annualised positive returns of 8% to 10% whilst maintaining  a profile of low 
volatility performance. The fact sheet also said its properties are focused on freeholds 
producing an increasing value  towards revision  date which  provides the backbone of the low 
volatility and consistent  performance. It noted the fund provided investors with access to an 
actively managed  Fund holding assets with little correlation  to traditional asset classes. 
The Brandeaux Student Accommodation  fund invested  in student and key worker  
accommodation throughout the UK. The fact sheet made similar claims to that of the other 
Brandeaux fund including  that it was anticipating delivering yearly  returns  of 8% to 10%. 
In a letter dated 23 November 2013 Mr B told Greystone that In the case  of Brandeaux, 
significant difficulties  in extracting funds to finance pension  payments with severe constraints 
on liquidity of funds  which may take years to be released if ever.
Rock Industrial  A J Bell SIPP
In a recommendation letter dated  26 July 2007  the adviser recommended  that Mr B invest 
£25,000 via his A J Bell SIPP into the Rock  Industrial fund.
The adviser noted he (the adviser) had previously suggested that investment into the 
industrial property market  makes for an attractive opportunity  within this asset class whilst  at 
the same  time further diversifying your overall portfolio.
The main  points made about  Rock Industrial were that:
The fund consisted of 10 industrial properties  with a total floor area of around 
1,570,000 sq. ft located across  the UK;
The properties were  100%  occupied and fully income producing;
The rental income from the properties as of 7 March 2007  was £3,547,000  per year;
The fund was a closed ended property unit trust domiciled in Jersey;
The investment  objective was to maximise  the capital growth;
Projected yearly returns were 10.5% over seven  year life of the fund effectively 
doubling the initial investment, though  this of course cannot be guaranteed.
The main  risks highlighted to Mr B were  similar to those set out in relation to Rock City, 
which Ive summarised above.
The adviser said the fund matched Mr Bs attitude  to risk which  he said was realistic. 
Realistic meant that in order to achieve  financial goals over the medium to long term there 
would be higher degree of risk to his (Mr Bs) capital in return for higher potential  income  and 
growth. The adviser also noted  that Mr B had confirmed hed be willing to take a more  
speculative attitude to investment risk if need be to take advantage of tax planning 
opportunities, and accept  there will be a strong  possibility of short term sharp  rises  and falls 
and overall volatility.
Mr Bs circumstances at the time of the recommendation were similar to those  listed  above 
in relation to the Rock City investment but by this point, he had begun to drawdown an 
income from his Transact PPP. Mr B had also taken a tax-free cash lump sum of £121,383 
from the Transact PPP following a recommendation dated 23 April 2007.
Ref: DRN79973985Mr Bs complaint
Unhappy with the UCIS recommendations,  Mr B complained to Greystone  and then brought  
his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. In brief, he concluded  that given the number of 
risks involved, the recommendations didnt  meet  Mr Bs attitude to risk and therefore,  the 
advice was unsuitable. Along with financial compensation  for any losses  suffered, our 
adjudicator awarded  Mr B £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to his pension  
planning.
Greystone disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary, it said:
Mr B was made aware,  in meetings and in written advice, that there were risks 
associated with the search for greater potential  rewards;
Given Mr B held a medium or balanced attitude to risk (as is confirmed in the 
contemporaneous documents on file), the investment in UCIS was suitable to be held 
as part of a diversified portfolio  his attitude  to risk was consistent with his financial 
objectives of focusing on retirement/pension  planning, seeking  potential capital 
growth and diversifying his overall  portfolio;
In order to seek potential higher  than average  returns, as Mr B wanted,  investors  
must accept a higher than average  degree of risk  Mr B was prepared to do this;
Mr B was a sophisticated  investor, engaged and experienced in this arena as well as 
being a successful businessman;
Mr B reviewed  and understood the suitability  reports and product literature provided 
to him at the time, which  highlighted  the nature and risks and he reviewed and 
understood the product literature  provided to him. He signed the Risk Warning 
Notice which expressly confirmed  hed understood the risks;
An investment  should  not be viewed in isolation  it was part of a balanced portfolio 
for an investor with a medium  or balanced  attitude to risk;
The fact that a product is unregulated does not of itself make it an unsuitable 
investment;
It was not the advice  but the unprecedented and unforeseeable fall in the commercial 
property market which caused the fall in value of the funds   the investments were 
considered appropriate  for the time and should  only be viewed in light of the 
information and practices of the time;
The suggested redress based on achieving returns to reflect  50% FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index and 50% average return from fixed  rate bonds, 
is not credible in Mr B's case;
The £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience  isnt fair, as when put 
together with the other awards in his other  complaints,  Mr B will be over 
compensated;
There is no basis on for this complaint to be split from Mr Bs other  complaints.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN79973986Before I explain my reasoning, whilst I appreciate the strength of feelings on both sides, it 
isnt my role to address all the questions and issues that each party has raised. My role is to 
concentrate on the issues directly  relevant  to the outcome of the case and to make a 
decision based on what I think are the central  issues. So whilst Ive taken into account 
everything thats been submitted, I may not comment on every  single  point thats been 
raised. 
As noted above,  the adviser recommended  that Mr B invest in four UCIS funds  Rock  City, 
Rock Industrial and two Brandeaux funds. Ill refer to these funds collectively as the UCIS 
investments.
Mr Bs attitude to risk
Mr Bs attitude to risk was described in several ways over the course of recommending  the 
UCIS investments recommended between November 2006 and July 2007. In respect of 
each investment the adviser categorised Mr B as follows:  
-Rock City (November  2006)  Mr Bs attitude  to risk was balanced  which  he said 
meant you accept that in order to achieve your financial  goals  over the medium to 
long terms there  will be a higher  degree  of risk to your capital in return for higher 
potential income  and growth;
-Brandeaux investments (April 2007)  Mr B was described as realistic meaning that 
he was willing to take a more  adventurous profile to achieve your goals and that this 
may give rise to the possibility of short term rises and falls and overall volatility  in the 
value of your capital.;
-Rock Industrial (July 2007)   Mr B was again  described as realistic which as well as 
what he said in relation to the Rock City investment, meant Mr B was willing  to 
take a more speculative attitude to investment risk.
In all these descriptions  Mr Bs attitude  to risk seemed to indicate  he had a potentially  more 
adventurous or speculative  attitude to risk. And more recently Greystone explained in their 
submissions to this service that Mr B had a medium and balanced attitude to risk. It said 
this meant  in order to seek potential  higher  than average returns, Mr B accepted a higher 
than average degree of risk. But both before  and after the time of the advice in 2006 and 
2007, Mr B was described by the same  adviser as having a more cautious attitude to risk. 
For example, in a recommendation letter dated  10 May 2006,  six months  before the Rock 
City recommendation, Mr Bs attitude to risk was described as follows:
I [the adviser] have  to consider your attitude to risk. From our discussions  we defined your 
risk profile as cautious/realistic, where you require an investment designed to give a 
conservative and relatively stable  level of income  and capital growth. You accept that returns  
may not be as high as that available  from other  investments but volatility should  be lower 
because of the greater emphasis on capital protection.
Whilst the adviser was giving Mr B separate advice, his attitude to risk was given in general  
terms. Similarly, in a letter dated  2 July 2008,  nearly a year after the Rock  Industrial 
recommendation, the adviser described  Mr B as having a cautious  attitude to risk. And in 
April 2002 Greystone assessed Mr B as having a low/ medium  profile  low being  someone 
who would  want to invest in 100%  with profits investment and medium  being someone whod 
invest in 50% with profits and 50% managed funds. At that time,  Mr Bs recorded  number 
one priority in terms of his finances,  was the security of his pension. 
Ref: DRN79973987I accept these assessments were  made  before and after the advice made in November 2006 
and July 2007, but I cant see that Mr Bs circumstances had changed  so significantly that it 
could be argued  he was now willing to take higher than average  degree of risk or that he 
had become more  speculative . Notably,  by the time of the advice in November 2006 and 
July 2007, Mr B was now using his pension to provide  him with an income  as well as capital 
growth, an objective that would usually result in some lowering of risk.
I also dont think Mr B had the capacity  to take a higher than average degree of risk with his 
pension. Mr B did have some assets  outside his SIPP and PPP but leaving aside his home, 
these were relatively modest  in comparison to the size of his pension  fund. So I dont think 
his wider financial position meant Mr B could afford to take a higher degree of risk with his 
pension fund. 
Overall, I think whilst Mr B may have been willing to take some risks with his capital to 
achieve returns needed to support him in his retirement, his attitude to risk was low to 
medium. And from everything Ive seen,  I think this was at the lower end of medium.
 
The recommendations  were  they suitable?
In terms of the recommendations themselves, I can see the UCIS investments  were each 
highly leveraged funds which meant that whilst returns could be enhanced  if the assets 
increased in value, losses could be magnified  too. All of the descriptions which  have been  
highlighted above, suggest the UCIS  investments recommended to Mr B between  November 
2006 and July 2007, were  very similar  in nature including the kind of risks that were involved.  
The regulator has said: UCIS are generally  regarded as being characterised  by a high 
degree of volatility, illiquidity or both  and therefore are usually regarded  as speculative 
investments. This means that in practice they are rarely regarded  as suitable for more  than 
a small share of an investors  portfolio. Yet, Greystone was recommending almost £100,000  
of Mr Bs pension funds be invested in four different UCIS funds.
All of the UCIS investments were all unusual and specialist. They were also concentrated 
and highly geared, subject to liquidity risks with no established secondary market  this was 
something acknowledged by Greystone at the time.  Further,  any returns were dependent  on 
the commercial/ industrial property market   either  in terms of resale values or rental yields  
not suffering a downturn. 
Despite the high yields being  anticipated on each UCIS, there  was a risk investors wouldnt 
get back the amount theyd invested and could lose all of it. First and foremost  the funds 
would need to pay back the money they borrowed, which is what happened in Mr Bs case.  
And looking at Mr Bs attitude to risk, I dont  think these  recommendations were suitable for 
his needs or risk profile.  I know that the adviser did categorise Mr B as speculative  and 
adventurous at the time of the advice, but for reasons Ive explained,  I dont think Mr B fell 
into this type of investor category.
Ive considered Greystones point that its recommendations provided balance to Mr Bs 
portfolio, so it met his risk profile  this point about  diversification was made several  times  by 
Greystone in relation to all the UCIS investments. But looking at the overall portfolio  even 
when excluding the other property investments which are the subject matter  of separate 
complaints  they consisted of a large proportion of other alternative  investment strategies, 
such as hedge funds  and international equities.  So by the time Mr B invested in these  UCIS  
Ref: DRN79973988investments in 2006 and 2007, a large proportion of his pension  fund was already invested 
in other  higher risk strategies. And as Ive said, it would also be reasonable to expect a 
lowering of the risk profile to some  degree  because it was now required to produce income 
in the short  term as well as capital growth in the long term.
Altogether the recommended UCIS investments came  to nearly £100,000 of Mr Bs pension 
portfolio which  including the tax-free  cash drawdown  he took from his A J Bell SIPP in 2006  
and Transact  PPP in 2007, represented  around 11% of his overall pension fund. So these 
funds by themselves,  presented a higher degree  of risk to the security of Mr Bs pension  
funds. Even  if I took into account that Im upholding the other complaints and this will have 
the effect of lowering the risk in the rest of Mr Bs portfolio, I dont think Mr Bs below medium 
attitude to risk made him a typical candidate for a geared property investment and balance in 
his portfolio would  have  been more suitably achieved by the use of insured funds, including  
commercial property funds.
I note Greystones submission that its advice should  be judged  against the standards  of the 
time. But at the time of the advice, Greystone was required by its regulator to provide  
suitable advice.  To do this it wouldve  had to take into account Mr Bs personal and financial 
circumstances as well as his understanding of the risks of investing in this type of fund. And 
whilst it may not be unreasonable to have some  alternative or less conventional  or traditional 
assets if the investor understands their place (which  Im not satisfied Mr B did), overall, the 
SIPP and PPP portfolio should  still broadly reflect the investors  attitude  to risk. 
Its possible that the variations in Mr Bs recorded attitude to risk reflected  that the adviser 
was designating some  parts of the overall portfolio  as higher risk than others. But I cant see 
that he satisfactorily explained how this would achieve the overall  balance  Mr B reasonably 
needed of below medium risk. A balanced  portfolio wouldnt  reasonably be achieved by 
straying too far above  the range of risk the investor  is willing to take, on the basis that this 
could be balanced  by straying  equally far below that range with another  investment. Given 
that Mr B was below  medium  on the risk scale, Im not satisfied that almost £100,000  
investment in the found UCIS funds was an appropriate component of an overall  portfolio 
seeking to achieve that risk level. 
Greystone has pointed to the risk warnings in the suitability letters,  and the information 
provided to Mr B about the fund. Theres no dispute  Mr B was provided with these at the 
time of sale.  But providing information about  the funds and the risks involved,  doesnt 
change Greystones obligation  to give suitable  advice. Nor does  the fact that Mr B may have 
signed declarations about being  a sophisticated  investor. Mr B denies signing the 
sophisticated investor form but even if he did, I think Greystone still had a duty to give Mr B 
suitable advice  based on his particular  circumstances. And it isnt about whether  Mr B 
agreed to Greystones recommendations   it shouldnt have advised  him to invest as he did.
So in summary,  I consider  Greystones  adviser should have recognised the multiple risks 
involved meant that these  particular investments werent suitable for an investor such as 
Mr B. And I think if Greystone had made more suitable recommendations in line with Mr Bs 
risk profile, on balance, I think he wouldve followed these.
Splitting of the complaints 
Greystone has raised objections to the splitting  of Mr Bs complaints. In a letter  dated  
25 July 2018 our service  gave both parties  detailed  reasons why the complaints Mr B 
brought to this service were separate complaints. 
Ref: DRN79973989In summary,  our letter  pointed to the fact that these recommendations can all be seen as 
part of same financial service. The 30 November suitability letter proposed selling some 
fixed interest holdings  in the Transact  PPP in order to invest  further in Rock City and 
Brandeaux UCIS. Rock  City was ultimately  made via the A J Bell SIPP  and was as largely (if 
not entirely) funded from fresh contributions. 
After a few months  Greystone arranged for the Transact PPP to be put into drawdown. This 
involved selling fixed interest funds (as well as the cash and UK equity) to make 
reinvestments in the drawdown  portfolio including two Brandeaux funds. While the process 
of making the Brandeaux funds originally highlighted in November 2006 was ongoing, 
Greystone issued a further suitability letter for Rock Industrial in the A J Bell SIPP.  This 
investment partly used  £9,200 remaining contributions Mr B had made to the A J Bell SIPP.  
So the Rock City, Rock Industrial and the Brandeaux  funds  were  all part of the same 
financial service being discussed over the course  of around six months. And I agree with this 
view and that these  all to form a single complaint.
If Greystone  are concerned the redress will overlap between  this case and the redress  for 
the rest of the portfolio, this will be addressed in the complaint about the pension switch to 
the A J Bell SIPP and Transact PPP.
The redress
In terms of the redress, Greystone dont agree that Mr B should receive £250 for distress 
and inconvenience.  This is because it says together with Mr Bs other  complaints,  he is 
being awarded more than wed normally give for this type of complaint.
 
In this case, I think Mr B has been  caused considerable distress by the unsuitable advice. In 
respect of all of the UCIS investments, Mr B was told hed lost all or nearly all of his capital. 
This would not have  happened if it wasnt for the unsuitable advice given to him by 
Greystone. Given the value Mr B placed  on the security of his pension, this wouldve caused  
him a great deal of distress and came at a time when he was extremely  ill. So Im satisfied 
£250 is a fair reflection of the upset caused to Mr B by the unsuitable advice.
Greystone considers the formula proposed by the adjudicator, is unfair.  But I dont agree 
with Greystones point  that with the suggested award it effectively means  the investment was 
guaranteed and Mr Bs capital was secure. Greystone says this isnt credible in light of 
Mr Bs willingness to take some risks with his capital. But the benchmark proposed is a 
combination of two indices, one of which carries the risk of going down  and its overall 
reflective of the attitude to risk I think Mr B was willing  to accept. Further,  had the advice 
been suitable then Greystone wouldnt be responsible for the losses Mr B has sustained  in 
respect of the investment.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied  that the recommended  redress set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr Bs circumstances,  attitude  to risk and objectives 
when he invested.
Ref: DRN799739810Greystone Financial Services Limited must  compare  the performance of Mr Bs investments 
with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value, 
there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable. If there is a loss, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must  
pay a sufficient amount into Mr Bs pension plan,  to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. 
Greystone Financial Services Limiteds payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief.  It shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. If Greystone  Financial Services  Limited  is 
unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension  plan,  it must pay that amount direct to 
him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  If Mr B is likely to have been a higher rate taxpayer had any losses  
resulting from all of the complaints hes brought about Greystone Financial Services 
Limiteds advice from January 2004 onwards been  included in his pension  fund, the 
reduction would equal the current higher rate of tax. However, Greystone Financial Services  
Limited should identify as part of its calculations if Mr B would have been able to take higher  
amounts of tax-free  cash at the times, he took tax-free cash  from his pension (if a loss was 
already showing  at that time) and adjust the reduction its making for income tax accordingly.
To give only an example,  if any higher amount of tax-free cash  Mr B wouldve been able to 
take in 2006/7 but for Greystone  Financial Services Limiteds advice from January 2004 
onwards, with further growth added to the date of my final decision in line with the 
benchmark shown  below, happened  to now correspond  to 20% of his total losses from that 
advice  this would  mean 1/5th of the compensation now being paid should not be reduced to 
allow for income tax. So if the rest of the compensation  wouldve resulted in income taxable 
at 40%,  the overall reduction  to be applied to compensation  in this and other complaints 
Mr B has brought about Greystone Financial Services  Limiteds advice from January 2004 
onwards would amount to 40% x 4/5ths = 32%.  The precise percentage should be 
determined by Greystone  Financial Services Limited during the process  of carrying out its 
calculations and is the same for all of the complaints about advice from January 2004 
onwards.
Mr B may consider hes able to demonstrate that a part of the lost pension benefits resulting 
from the complaints  hes brought about Greystone Financial Services Limiteds advice from 
January 2004  onwards, wouldve been taxed at the lower rate of 20%. I would expect  
Greystone Financial Services Limited to consider appropriate evidence  provided by Mr B if 
he considers this to be the case.
-Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format:
investment name Status Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)To
(end date)Additional interest
Ref: DRN799739811Rock City Park
Rock UK Industrial  
Property fund
Brandeaux Student 
Accommodation (initial sum only)
Brandeaux Ground  
Rent Fund (initial 
sum only)Dissolved
In administration
Still exists
Still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income  Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other  half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of 
decision8% simple  per year 
from date of 
decision to date of
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days  
of the business 
being notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed  
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
Greystone Financial Services Limited should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by 
paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should  be 
deducted from the compensation before making  the tax adjustment  and the balance  paid as 
above. If it is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Greystone Financial Services Limited  may wish to require 
that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment 
in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Greystone  Financial Services Limited will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Ive assumed that the investments have not been sold.  If they been sold or liquidated, then 
the actual value should be determined  by increasing  the value of the proceeds received by 
the above benchmark up to the settlement date and comparing  this to the fair value at the 
settlement date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must use the monthly average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The 
rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates  to 
the investment  on an annually  compounded basis. 
The end date above is different to the end date I specified in Mr Bs other complaint about 
his PPP/SIPP switch,  because of the liquidity  problem with these  UCIS  investments which  is 
likely to have prevented Mr Bs new adviser from disposing of them.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ref: DRN799739812-Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
-The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
-The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
-I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and require Greystone Financial Services  Limited  to pay him the 
fair compensation set out above.
I also consider Greystone  Financial Services Limited has caused  Mr B significant  distress on 
realising that hed likely lost all of the money invested in his UCIS. Greystone Financial 
Services Limited must pay Mr B £250 as compensation for the distress  it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997398