K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly declined  a claim made under 
his home  contents  insurance policy.
background
Mr Ps daughter (Ms P) was travelling abroad  at a wedding  when she had her camera  stolen. 
Mr P claimed under his contents insurance,  and following  an investigation AXA declined  the 
claim as it said it wouldnt  cover  devices used for business purposes  when they were  away  
from the home. 
Mr P said the camera had previously been  used for business purposes, but in the year it was 
stolen it had hardly been used for this purpose, if at all. He explained she was present at the 
wedding as a guest, taking photos for pleasure,  and not in a professional capacity.
Mr P then brought  his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into the 
complaint and didnt uphold  it. He said hed listened  to call recording between Ms P and 
AXA, during  which she had indicated shed purchased  the camera for the business purposes 
and had been paid for this type of work  from around 2014. She also said she was in the 
country in connection  with her professional work  as an artist.
Mr P said he felt AXA had led Ms P into giving information which  would lead to the item not 
being covered.  But our investigator said he felt the representative had been  open in his 
questioning and Ms P had volunteered this information about the intention of the camera.  So 
overall the investigator said AXA had acted reasonably by applying  the exclusion.
Mr P disagreed saying  the purposes  of Ms Ps trip abroad had varied, and on this occasion  it 
wasnt related to photography.  The investigator said AXA had fairly reached this conclusion 
taking into account  the purpose  Ms P gave for the camera alongside her statements 
regarding her reasons  for being  in the country.
So the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
Under ICOBS 8.1 AXA must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ref: DRN78231022In this case theres no dispute  that Ms Ps camera was stolen and this was an insured peril 
under the policy.  But, Mr P and AXA disagree  on its use of an exclusion related to the item.  
So Ive considered this exclusion. This says the policy will not cover loss or damage  to 
business equipment removed from the home.
Business equipment is defined under the policy as:
Any items or equipment,  including computing equipment (but excluding  data)  used mainly 
for business, trade, professional  or employment purposes.
Ms P was abroad at the time of the theft  so theres no question that she was away  from 
home. This means if the camera was used mainly for business, trade, professional  or 
employment purposes it wont be covered by this policy.
Ms P spoke to AXA on the phone at length about  the claim and how the theft came about. 
Within this call she said she was abroad for dual business purposes  connected  to writing 
and an art project.  Within  the call Ms P describes the camera as used for her artwork and 
professional purposes  from 2014 onwards. This suggests to me that the cameras  main 
purpose was for either professional or business  purposes.
Towards the end of the call AXAs representative  explained  that the camera was unlikely to 
be covered due to this exclusion. From what Ive heard, Ms P accepts this and agrees the 
application of the exclusion was fair. While I appreciate Mr P may feel strongly  this isnt the 
case, I cant ignore  Ms Ps perspective  on the purpose of the item.
Ive also seen Ms P provided a statement to AXA in which she said she was abroad in  
connection with my work as an artist. This further suggests to me that Ms P was using the 
camera mainly  for business  or professional purposes while abroad.
I appreciate Ms P was attending  the wedding as a guest, and on the day of the theft itself 
she may not have been using the camera in a professional capacity. However taking 
everything into account, this isnt enough  to persuade  me that the main purpose  of the 
camera overall was for personal use and not professional or business. 
So Im satisfied AXA declined this claim fairly  and reasonably, and in line with its policy 
terms. So Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7823102