K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about advice he received from Portafina  LLP to transfer a Stakeholder 
pension plan to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within  the SIPP were 
then used to invest  in several  unregulated  collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr H is being represented by a third party  but for ease of reading  the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr H.
background
Mr H says he was approached by an advisory  firm (Firm C) in 2013,  who offered him 
pension advice. Firm C advised Mr H to transfer  three personal  pension plans (PPP) from a 
single pension provider  to a SIPP with Firm T. 
Mr H had a further stakeholder pension plan, established by his then current  employer and 
to which  both Mr H and his employer were making  monthly contributions.  Firm C mistakenly 
believed that the stakeholder plan was an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) which  
would require the advising firm to have the relevant  permissions from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  before advice could be provided.   
At that time Firm C was an appointed representative  (AR) of a regulated business,  Firm S. 
Firm S was authorised by the FCA to provide investment advice, but neither Firm S or 
Firm C had the required permissions to provide advice on OPS transfers. Therefore, Mr H 
was introduced by Firm C to Portafina  LLP for advice about transferring  this plan. 
After obtaining  details of the stakeholder plan, Portafina explained to Firm C that it wasnt an 
OPS and there were  no safeguarded benefits.  Therefore,  Firm C could advise on the 
transfer, as it had with the PPPs. However,  as Portafina had already spent time on Mr Hs 
case, it was agreed  that it would continue with the pension switch advice but it wouldnt 
provide advice on the subsequent investments in the new pension  plan;  this would be 
provided by Firm C. 
Portafina completed a fact find by telephone with Mr H. It was also provided with a copy of 
Firm Cs fact find and attitude to risk questionnaire, which Firm C had completed some 
months before.  These documents recorded the following information about  Mr H: 
He was approaching age 54, married with four children.
His intention was to retire at age 66 but he was also considering taking his tax-free 
cash at age 55.
He worked full time earning £27,000  per annum and had been employed by the 
same firm for 17 years.
His wife was employed as a teacher.
He owned  a house with his wife. The property was worth  approximately  £165,000 
and the outstanding mortgage was £152,000 i.e. 92% of the estimated property 
value. It was part repayment and part interest-only with a monthly  repayment of 
£832. The remaining  term was unclear  but it was documented  that the mortgage 
went beyond Mr Hs intended  retirement age of 66.
He had a joint life insurance plan with a sum assured of £200,000.
He had a joint net disposable  income  of £500 per month, total cash  savings of £1,000  
and Mr H also had lease agreements  on two cars.
Ref: DRN71658042the PPPs that had previously been transferred to the SIPP by Firm C were worth 
approximately £100,000. 
The stakeholder  plan was worth approximately  £33,000, to which Mr H was also 
contributing £27.80  gross per month and his employer was contributing £99.98  per 
month.
the stakeholder  plan was invested in a single fund, a mixed investment (40%-85%) 
managed fund.
He felt that he would need £20,000 per annum  before  any adjustment for inflation to 
retire on, and he felt this was achievable.
According to the risk profiling questionnaire completed by Portafina, Mr Hs attitude to 
investment risk was moderate to adventurous. Firm Cs own risk profiling questionnaire  
recorded that Mr H had very little understanding or knowledge of investing.
A few weeks  later, in March 2015,  Portafina issued its suitability report.  It stated that with 
regard to Mr Hs stakeholder plan his objectives were to consolidate his pension plans, to 
have more control and flexibility,  to move to a cheaper scheme and to be able to pass  death  
benefits to his family. 
Portafina recommended that to meet his stated objectives, Mr H should transfer his 
stakeholder to a SIPP with Firm N and both Mr H and his employer would continue  to make 
regular contributions at the existing level. 
The stakeholder plan was recorded  to have an annual management charge of 1% per and 
the existing fund investment performance was on average 11.83%  per annum over the 
previous five years. Mr Hs attitude to risk was confirmed as moderately adventurous, which  
was described as: 
Moderately  Adventurous  investors typically have moderate to high levels  of financial 
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial  issues.  They will usually be fairly 
experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the past. 
In general. Moderately  Adventurous investors  are willing to take on investment risk and 
understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They  are willing to 
take risk with a substantial proportion of their available  assets. 
Moderately Adventurous investors will usually take gambles where they see the potential 
rewards as being  attractive. They will usually be able to make up their minds  on financial 
matters quite quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their decisions turn out badly, 
they are usually able to accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long 
term investment.
With regard to the proposed investment strategy  for the new SIPP  the suitability report  
stated, We do not provide any advice in relation to the funds and investments within  your 
new plan as this recommendation will be made by [Firm C].
The capacity loss section  of the suitability  report stated upon review  of your answers to 
these question (investment time horizon, income relative to spending needs, value of assets,  
ease of reducing the amount spent,  how flexible was the retirement  date, would there be 
financial support  from a spouse) I believe you have a suitable  level of Capacity  for Loss for 
the recommendation we have made for you.
Ref: DRN71658043The investment recommendations section stated Due to your risk rating of Moderately  
Adventurous, your stated age of retirement and your needs and objectives  we would 
recommend that you invest in the following fund asset classes, however, [Firm  C] will contact 
you in due course to discuss  the actual fund investment portfolio. Please note until this time, 
your funds will be initially invested  in 100%  Cash Deposit with [Firm N] upon transfer.
The Alternatives section  of the suitability  report stated, I have not recommended  a 
stakeholder Pension  because you wish to make  contributions of £22.24  net per month to a 
new plan with [Firm N].
The Fees and Charges section stated that Portafina would charge an initial advice fee of 5% 
of the transfer  value,  of which 2% would be paid to Firm C as part of the introducer's  
agreement it had with it. Firm C would discuss its ongoing review  service and the cost of its 
ongoing advice  with Mr H in the very near future. The ongoing charge of Firm Ns SIPP   
would be 0.5% of the fund value per annum plus an initial set up fee of £180. 
Mr H accepted Portafinas advice and signed  the necessary  paperwork for the transfer to 
proceed. On the same  day Mr H also signed a transfer of agency  form to appoint Firm C as 
the new servicing agent for the Firm N SIPP.  Three weeks later, at the end March 2015, the 
transfer from the stakeholder to the SIPP was completed.  The transfer value was £34,634.25  
and the initial fee was 5% of the transfer  value was paid.
A week later on 8 April 2015  Firm C wrote  a Risk Tolerance Report  for Mr H. The Report  
recommended that Mr H invest in the Governed Portfolio, which  would comprise  of the 
following investments:
Fund name % invested Notes Firm C 
risk rating
Cash 5% Regulated Low
Marlborough ETF Global  Growth P 
Fund Acc (iFunds Red)5% Regulated High
Spectrum Thesis iFunds Orange A Acc 25% Regulated Medium
Spectrum Thesis iFunds Green A Acc 20% Regulated Low
Spectrum Thesis iFunds Indigo A Acc 10% Regulated Low
Lakeview Holdings 6% Unregulated High
Real Estate Investments USA Plc 6% Unregulated High
Motion Pictures 6% Unregulated High
Strategic Residential 6% Unregulated High
Timbaba 2.5% Unregulated High
Brisa 2.5% Unregulated High
Biomass Investments Plc 6% Unregulated High
A few weeks  later the funds in the Firm N SIPP were invested  in line with Firm Cs 
recommendation. 
In February 2018,  Mr H complained to Portafina that hed been given unsuitable advice to
transfer his pension. In summary he complained that:
The transfer recommendation  was unsuitable  because it did not fully explain  how the 
transfer met his needs and demands, did not explain the possible disadvantages and 
failed to adequately compare the benefits  to be paid between the existing and 
recommended pension plans.
Ref: DRN71658044Portafina failed  to consider the subsequent investments and the FCA thematic review 
of September  2009 confirms that Portafina  are not entitled  to excuse themselves 
from providing full investment advice.
The investments  would not have  taken place were it not for Portafinas 
recommendation to transfer.
He wasnt a moderately adventurous investor. He was medium  risk.
He was not high net-worth or a sophisticated  investor.
Many  of the resulting investments were unsuitable because they were high risk and 
illiquid and did not match his attitude to risk. 
The risks of the investments were not fully explained.
He was not fully informed  in respect of the fees charged for the advice.
Contingent charging by Portafina  created a conflict of interest as Portafina would only 
receive its fee if it recommended the transfer.
Portafina reviewed  the complaint but it didnt think it was at fault. It said that:
It was only responsible for the transfer advice. The Suitability Report  explained that 
Firm C would  provide the investment advice.
Mr Hs attitude to risk was assessed  using third party  software. Furthermore, the 
assessment was discussed  with Mr H who could have objected to it at any time.
The transfer met Mr Hs objectives  of a cheaper  plan and to pass the whole of the 
funds to his spouse  upon death.
Firm C was provided with all the information  needed to provide the recommended  
investment portfolio.
Risks were  disclosed  and sufficient  information  was provided for Mr H to make  an 
informed decision.
Portafina ensured Mr H had sufficient capacity for loss.
Mr H didnt accept Portafinas  explanation  so the matter was referred  to our service for
review. 
One of our investigators  reviewed matters and thought  Portafina  had acted  unfairly. In 
summary the investigator thought:
The transfer value  was too small to justify a transfer to a SIPP.
The existing investments were performing adequately.
The new SIPP  was not cheaper when accounting for all fees and charges.
An FCA alert from January 2013 made  it clear  that transfer / transfer  advice must  
also cover  the subsequent investments.
Mr H was neither high net-worth or a sophisticated investor and so the UCIS 
investment he ended up in were  unsuitable.
The attitude to risk assessment was flawed.
Suitable advice  would have been to remain where he was and advise  on alternative 
funds.
Portafina is wholly liable as all events stemmed from its recommendation.
Mr H should be compensated for any financial loss, using a benchmark comparison 
from transfer to settlement date. The comparison should  assume Mr H was willing  to 
accept some risk with his investments, in other  words that he was a medium  risk 
investor. Portafina should also cover 5 years of future SIPP  fees because  of the 
illiquid nature of some of the investments, and also pay £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr H.
Ref: DRN71658045Portafina didnt  accept the investigators findings  and made the following additional  
arguments:
As it was not recommending investments it did not look at alternate funds  in the 
existing Stakeholder  plan.
Its advice model of delegating investment advice to a third party followed FCA 
guidance and so it viewed it unfair that its liable for investment  losses caused by the 
actions of Firm C. It is not the fault of Portafina  that Firm C did not follow  Mr Hs 
attitude to risk classification in respect  of the investments recommended.
At the time of advice  Firm C was also regulated  also and subject to the same 
complaint procedure as Portafina.
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing this, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Portafina recommended that Mr H transfer his stakeholder plan to a SIPP  but it says that, 
although it assessed his attitude  to risk, it didnt  provide advice as to the investments within 
the SIPP because  this was being  provided by Firm C. 
Mr H accepted the recommendation and Portafina arranged  for the SIPP to be set up, the 
stakeholder plan to be transferred and for the funds to be fully invested  in cash. Shortly  after 
this was completed, the servicing  rights for the SIPP were  transferred to Firm C. Firm C 
subsequently arranged for the SIPP funds to purchase  a number of investments, several of 
which were unregulated. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  Even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise  on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments in order to 
give suitable advice.  This remains  the case even if Firm C was actually providing that advice. 
It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a pension  
transfer to consider the overall  investment strategy  that applies to that proposed transfer, 
including a broad  understanding of the proposed investments, before it could determine 
whether the transfer was in Mr Hs best interest.  
In 2013, the regulator  at the time issued an alert about advising on pension  transfers with a 
view to investing pension  monies into unregulated products through  a SIPP. This alert was 
issued because it had come to the regulators notice that some  firms  were  adopting  advice 
models which didnt  comply with the existing obligations and so there  was a potential for 
consumer detriment. The regulator made  its position  clear in the alert, where  it said:
Ref: DRN71658046The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle  for investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected  underlying  investments in unregulated schemes. It should 
be particularly clear  to financial advisers that, where  a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer  in implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer  must  take account  of the overall investment strategy the customer  is 
contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the 
regulated elements
In the scenario set out in this alert, the other firm involved  was unregulated. In Mr Hs case, 
Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement with Firm S. 
Portafina may believe that this absolved it from its duty to assess  the suitability of the 
investments, particularly as it may have said to Mr H that it wasnt providing any advice on 
the underlying  investments as Firm C was doing that. But the update makes it clear that it 
wasnt open to Portafina to provide advice on a restricted basis.  It couldnt separate out the 
two elements; its advice  on the suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the 
underlying investments. 
The position  on this is further supported by a subsequent alert issued by the regulator,  on 
28 April 2014, regarding  pension  transfers  and switches. Again, this alert didnt follow  the 
introduction of new regulations but restated the existing  position. 
The regulator said it was: 
alerting firms to our requirements  when they give advice on self-invested personal  
pensions (SIPPS), giving our view and key messages . It included  the following: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  
through a SIPP,  then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer.  If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable. If a firm does not fully understand 
the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle, the wrapper  and the expected  underlying investments 
and whether or not such investments were regulated products. It said, despite the initial alert 
(in January 2013), some  firms continued to adopt  a model which  purportedly  restricted 
advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a pension transfer 
or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing pension  arrangement  
and the underlying investments intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Im conscious that both the 2013  and 2014 alerts  were  issued  prior to Mr H receiving  advice 
and so Portafina ought to have known that it needed  to do this. 
Ref: DRN71658047As it told Mr H it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying investments, Portafina  
appears to have been under the impression that this enabled  it to provide advice on a 
restricted basis; this wasnt right. It couldnt  separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
These alerts dont have  the status  of a Handbook rule as such,  nonetheless I consider it to 
be a relevant indicator of the standards expected by the regulator  in these circumstances, as 
well as a helpful  indicator  of what good  industry practice looked like at the time.  And both 
alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching  Principles  for Businesses (PRIN) 
and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with reference 
to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations  under these 
precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt 
be able to recommend  a new product,  like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr H under the regulatory system.  So, even if it said it was operating under a limited  retainer,  
this didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure  the advice it was providing was suitable   
again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Hs funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr H. To achieve this, COBS  9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr H to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, 
where relevant,  information on the length  of time for which he wishes  to hold the 
investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes  of 
the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Hs objectives and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Hs funds were  going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr H would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  seem 
reasonably possible.
After Portafina gave advice the agency  for Mr Hs SIPP was transferred to Firm C and it was 
Firm C that recommended  the high risk and Illiquid investments. However, the alerts make it 
clear that a firm that is asked to advise on a pension  transfer or switch  needs to be aware  of 
the intended investments before it advises on the transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. 
So, Portafina shouldve  requested this information  from Firm C before providing advice. And, 
as confirmed in the alert, if it didnt fully understand the underlying investment proposition  
intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or 
switch at all. 
The regulators rules do allow for situations  where two regulated  firms are involved. In 
particular, the rules state: 
Ref: DRN71658048COBS 2.4.6R(2). 
A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires 
it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.8G
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely 
on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a 
professional firm, unless  it is aware or ought  reasonably to be aware  of any fact that 
would give reasonable grounds  to question the accuracy of that information.
These rules  essentially mean  that a firm can rely on information provided to it by another 
regulated firm, where it is reasonable to do so. The rule is stated to apply to situations where  
a firm is required by a handbook rule to obtain the information in question  from another  
person.  
However, in this case, Portafina failed to obtain any information from Firm C about the 
intended investment  proposition for Mr H. This is despite Firm C completing the fact find and 
attitude to risk questionnaire  for Mr H - and forwarding these to Portafina  - before Portafina  
issued its suitability report. And having  already invested Mr Hs SIPP with Firm T, in the 
same funds that his Firm N SIPP went on to be invested in.  So I think  its likely that Firm C 
had in mind a portfolio of intended investments  before  Portafina  was involved, or at the very 
least at the same time as when Portafina  were involved. Firm C advised Mr H to invest a 
significant proportion  of his SIPP in unregulated investments. Portafina says it didnt know  
this was Firms Cs intention - but it would have, had it found out about the intended 
investments as I consider it was required to do; they were part and parcel  of the transfer. But 
it appears that in giving its advice to transfer, Portafina failed to check  how Firm C broadly 
proposed to invest Mr Hs money. At the very least,  Portafina was required to research the 
investments of the Firm T SIPP as part of its responsibility to know its client, which would 
have undoubtedly  alerted  Portafina to the investment strategy  of Firm C. So, either  Portafina  
were aware of the investments  Firm C had already arranged, or it failed in its responsibility  to 
know its client.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Hs appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable advice 
and act in Mr Hs best interests.  And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of where 
Mr Hs funds would be invested. 
Portafina may say it completed due diligence checks on Firm C before agreeing  to accept 
client referrals  from it. But it wasnt enough  for it to rely on general information provided  to it 
at the start of its relationship with Firm C; that wouldnt have been a reasonable basis  for 
Portafina to have assessed the suitability of the pension switch for Mr H.
In my view, it shouldve done more to ensure it understood the types  of investments Firm C 
would be recommending, and in particular  in connection with Mr Hs proposed transfer. As 
Ive said, I wouldve expected Portafina to request details upfront from Firm C as to the 
intended portfolio  for Mr H. Without  this information, Im not satisfied  that Portafina could 
reasonably assess  the suitability  of the transfer.
Ref: DRN71658049Had Portafina requested this information and it had been advised that Firm C intended to 
invest Mr H in a number  of UCIS,  then it couldve questioned this, given how at odds  it was 
with his established attitude to risk. And in the event  that Portafina  had been misled by 
Firm C as to the proposed investments, then its likely Mr H wouldve realised that the 
investments Firm C went on to arrange differed to those Portafina  had based its suitability 
assessment on. And Mr H couldve taken action accordingly.
All in all, as it was, Portafina failed to take adequate steps to consider the investment
proposition for Mr H as a whole when assessing the suitability of Mr Hs proposed  transfer
away from his Stakeholder  plan. Im satisfied that if the appropriate steps  had been taken to 
ask Firm C for its investment proposition, or to check the investment  proposition  for Mr Hs 
Firm T SIPP, Portafina wouldve seen that the proposed investments were unsuitable for 
Mr H and the recommendation to transfer  his pension on that basis wouldnt have been 
given.
What was Portafina required  to do?
I think its important to explain that regardless of anyone elses part in the matter Portafina 
had to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the overarching 
Principles for Businesses. Principles 1 (integrity ), 2 (skill,  care and diligence ), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out 
the rules regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R 
required Portafina to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mr H. It had to obtain information as to Mr Hs 
knowledge and experience (relevant  to the specific type of designated investment), 
his financial situation  and investment objectives.
As set out above, COBS 9.2.2R required Portafina to gather  sufficient  information  from Mr 
H to ensure the recommendation met his objectives, he could bear the risks involved and 
he had the necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction.
Under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
The advice  to transfer the stakeholder plan
Having considered whether, in recommending the transfer, Portafina reasonably had regard
to the expected investment proposition for Mr H as a whole. Ill now consider whether  the
transfer ought to have  been recommended in any event. In other words, even if Firm Cs
expected investment proposition was suitable for Mr H, was the transfer likely to have been 
suitable for Mr H in any event?
It is clear from Mr Hs background and circumstances that he satisfied the FCA definition of a 
Retail Client  i.e. he was neither a professional client or an eligible counterparty.  Therefore, 
he was entitled  to rights and protections afforded to Retail Clients  and was clearly  reliant  on 
the advice given to him. From the evidence I have seen there  is no suggestion whatsoever 
that he was either high-net worth or a sophisticated investor. In fact, the two risk profiling  
Ref: DRN716580410assessments completed by Firm C prior to the transfer and prior to its investment  advice   
both confirmed that he had little knowledge or understanding of investments. 
I have thought about how the recommendation addressed Mr Hs objectives, as stated in 
Portafinas suitability  report.
Consolidation
Mr H started with three separate PPPs with one provider  and a Stakeholder plan with a 
second provider.  He ended up with two separate SIPPs with two different providers. 
Portafina ought to have  been aware  that he already had a Firm T SIPP  by the time it gave 
advice. No justification has been  provided  for why he was recommended a new SIPP with 
Firm N rather than using  the existing Firm T SIPP as the source of the transfer and so it is 
clear that the recommendation did not achieve  this objective.
Flexibility & control
I have seen no evidence  to suggest  that Mr H wanted to have an active  role in the 
management of his pension plan/s. In my view, his lack of investment  experience  points to 
completely the opposite. That he wanted simplicity and clarity, and I think  that this would 
have been best met by his existing  Stakeholder  which was designed for this purpose.  So, I 
do not believe Mr H was looking  for additional  control.
The Stakeholder did not appear to offer flexible income options  such  as flexi-access 
drawdown, where Mr H would be able to take tax-free cash  and defer taking any income until 
required. Mr H was one year away from when he could access his tax-free cash at age 55. 
Although we know that Mr H did take his tax-free cash on his 55th birthday, Portafina did not 
establish this as one of his objectives. Therefore, there was no apparent  pressing need for 
additional flexibility. If Portafina was aware  of Mr Hs possible intention to take tax-free cash 
at 55 - and if this was the reason for additional flexibility  - it was also required to demonstrate  
why Mr Hs needs could  not be met by his existing  stakeholder plan and how taking the tax-
free cash  would affected the suitability of the recommendation. It didnt do either of these. 
A cheaper  scheme
Although Portafina  argue  that the transfer resulted in lower costs, I disagree. The 
comparison was limited  to the lower  annual management charge of the SIPP  compared to 
the total annual charge of the Stakeholder plan.  Portafinas argument takes no account of 
the additional advice and investment fees of Firm C or the 5% initial advice fee. So, its 
suggestions that the new plan was cheaper  was misleading. An advisor is clearly entitled  to 
charge a fee for its advice, but when this advice fee defeats the objective that it is setting out 
to achieve, it by definition renders that objective  as not met. 
Death benefits
I can see no meaningful  difference  in the treatment or entitlement  to death benefits between 
the stakeholder  plan and the SIPP, but the additional overall  fees incurred by transferring to 
the SIPP resulted  in lower, rather than improved, death benefits.
So, I do not think that the transfer met any of Mr Hs stated objectives. But I have also 
thought about if the transfer  achieved any other benefit for Mr H.
Ref: DRN716580411Mr H argues that he has always had a medium,  or balanced attitude to risk. I take this to be 
in the context of investment risk. Portafina  used a third party risk profiling tool which  
assessed his attitude to risk as moderately  adventurous,  But the Fact Find confirmed that his 
capacity for loss was low. His pensions were in effect his only asset, which  he would clearly 
be heavily reliant  on in the future.  An advisers role in assessing attitude to risk is to go 
beyond using the responses  to a risk profiling  assessment tool and to consider the 
individuals circumstances  and objectives  overall. I think  it is also important to note that the 
definition of a moderately adventurous attitude  to risk as explained in the suitability report  
was clearly out of kilter with Mr Hs knowledge and experience. For example, it said that 
such individuals typically have moderate  to high levels  of financial knowledge and are 
usually experienced investors,  which was clearly not the case for Mr H.
The Stakeholder was invested in a mixed investment (40%-85%) managed fund.  This was 
simple, managed, relatively  low cost,  broadly consistent  with a medium attitude to risk and 
Portafinas own research  confirmed strong  historic  performance of 11.88% per annum. I 
think this type of fund was fit for purpose  for Mr H, because I think he would have been 
suited to something that was relatively  simple  and low cost but provided a reasonable 
degree of diversification  with a reasonable prospect for growth. 
However, given Mr Hs low capacity for loss and intention to possibly take his tax-free  cash 
within a year I am not persuaded that the level of risk of this fund was suitable.  I believe that 
had his capacity  for loss been considered adequately, his attitude to risk should have been 
assessed as between cautious  and medium. Therefore, I do feel that Mr H would have 
benefitted from advice  in this regard. However, this in isolation did not necessitate a transfer 
as I think it is reasonable to conclude that the stakeholder plan would  have offered a suitable 
alternative fund or combination of funds  suitable  to his attitude to risk. I acknowledge  that it 
was not possible  for Portafina to be appointed as agent for the stakeholder plan. However,  I 
do believe  that it would have been  able to research the range of funds available to Mr H in 
the stakeholder  plan and provide a suitable fund switch recommendation.
I can see no other potential benefit for Mr H being advised to transfer  his stakeholder  plan to 
a SIPP.
Mr H has argued  that the fees and charges of the transfer were  not disclosed.  However,  the 
fees and charges attributable to Portafinas advice and the SIPP were disclosed in the 
Suitability Report  and given that Mr H signed and returned the accompanying Declaration it 
is clear that he received  this Report  and it was his responsibility to read and understand it. 
However, I agree that the fees and charges attributable to the advice and investments 
arranged by Firm C were undisclosed.  
The suitability report discounted a transfer to an alternative Stakeholder plan because Mr H 
wanted to make regular  contributions.  This statement was false and misleading  because he 
was already making regular contributions to his existing Stakeholder plan. In my view this 
serves to illustrate the point that Mr Hs needs  and objectives were broadly already being  
met by his existing plan.
In summary,  the recommendation  to transfer  was unsuitable.  Mr Hs needs and objectives  
would have been better met remaining in the stakeholder plan, with a recommendation of an 
internal fund switch  to a lower risk investment  fund or funds that would be more  conducive to 
his weak capacity for loss and possible  intention  to access  his tax-free cash  within a year.
Ref: DRN716580412would Mr H have gone  ahead with the transfer  in any event?  
Mr H was clearly  reliant on the advice  given to him. His desire  to access his tax-free  cash  
may have  acted as a strong incentive  to transfer, but this should have been balanced 
against the advantages  and disadvantages  of both the transfer itself and of taking the tax-
free cash. We do not know why Mr H accessed  his tax-free cash, because  Portafina did not 
establish this. So, in the absence of any compelling argument for a need to access  his tax-
free cash  I do not believe Mr H would have transferred had he been  fully advised of the 
advantages and disadvantages  of doing so.
Putting things  right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr H's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina  do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value there  is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase  its value  by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the advice received.
Ref: DRN716580413Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Portafina should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Firm N 
SIPPmixedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he wouldve been in but for the failings of Portafina. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the case  here. So when 
determining the current value of the SIPP, the value of any illiquid  investments should  be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should  take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment, the value should be assumed  to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Portafina may wish to require  that Mr H provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Portafina will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Ref: DRN716580414Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. This includes any regular contributions 
paid into the SIPP.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
Sipp fees
As the SIPP only exists  because  of the advice  Portafina gave, in order for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, the illiquid  investment need to be removed. But if 
Portafina cant buy them, Mr H is faced with future  SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume  five 
years of future SIPP fees. So, if Portafina  cant buy the investment, it should  pay an amount 
equal to five years of SIPP  fees based on the current full tariff.  This is in addition  to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr H into that position.  It does not mean that Mr H would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint and direct  Portafina LLP to pay redress  as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7165804