K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about investment advice he received  from HSBC  UK Bank Plc in 2002.  
Mr B is being represented by a claims management  company  (CMC).  
background
In February 2002  Mr B met with an adviser from HSBC. A fact find was completed and this 
showed that Mr B:
Owned a property  worth around  £115,000.  
Had about £17,600 in savings and existing investments, and was earning £7,599 a 
year (his disposable income was £175  per month, after taking into account general 
living expenses and council tax  Mr B had no mortgage). 
Mr B was expecting a further  credit of £8,000 in the two weeks after the meeting 
which he would hold in his savings account as an emergency  fund. 
His attitude to risk was defined  as cautious  in other words low risk to capital but 
potentially better  returns over medium to longer term. 
The notes of the fact find also said that Mr B wanted to invest  £15,000 over the 
medium / long term with the aim of providing  income, although Mr B had indicated  he 
would re-invest that income. 
Mr B declined  national  savings on the basis that he didnt  think  the returns were  
particularly attractive. 
Mr B was therefore advised  to invest £15,000  in the Corporate Bond Feed ISA. Mr B made  
some withdrawals at the end of 2002, and surrendered the remainder of the investment in 
May 2008 for a total of £14,744.15 (including withdrawals he had made). 
In December 2017, Mr B complained to HSBC.  He said that the adviser shouldve 
considered his upcoming needs and likely additional  expenditure before recommending he 
invest so much of his money.  And this explained  why he made such significant withdrawals 
within a few months of investing. He also complained that the investment itself was too high 
risk for him. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and considered  HSBCs advice was 
suitable for Mr B. He concluded  that given the money  Mr B was due to receive, he had 
sufficient liquid assets to invest in a low risk investment. He thought  the evidence showed  
that Mr B was looking to invest for growth,  and he thought that HSBCs  recommendation 
matched both his investment objectives  and his attitude to risk. He acknowledged that given 
the time that had passed, it hadnt been  possible to establish precisely what  the fund was 
made up of at the time.  
However, a more recent fund factsheet  demonstrated that the fund invested  predominantly  
in UK corporate bonds. 
The CMC, on behalf of Mr B, disagreed with the investigator.  It said:
HSBC had double  counted his disposable  income. 
His assets had been grossly  over-estimated  to the tune of £115,000 which  showed  
him as a reasonably wealthy individual which he was not. It said a subsequent fact 
find for a separate investment which was carried out in 2005 showed  this. 
Ref: DRN73946502This meant  that Mr B was being advised  to invest 60% of his free assets into a single 
product. This was in excess of normal guidance especially as this was the first time 
Mr B was investing  in a non-capital  protected  investment. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Im afraid I dont have  much to add to what the adjudicator has said. Where the evidence  is 
incomplete, as some  of it is here, I need to decide matters on the balance  of probabilities. 
And its clear  that the documentary evidence from the time will carry weight when 
determining what Mr B wanted at the time of the advice, and what  his objectives were.  
The evidence indicates that Mr B had sufficient funds to be able to afford  to invest in a lower 
risk investment such as the corporate bond fund. The notes from the time show that the 
adviser did consider  than the investment of £15,000 would leave Mr B with little emergency  
cash, but the notes clearly show a discussion of the additional £8,000 which  Mr B told the 
adviser he was due to receive. This meant  that Mr B wouldve had well in excess  of the 
around £5,000  emergency fund the adviser  had indicated would be sufficient. 
Im not sure in what way Mr Bs funds were  over-estimated as the CMC says,  or whether 
thats a reference to the value of Mr Bs property in the fact find of 2002  thats the only 
thing I can see changed significantly  in those three years. But either  way, Mr Bs liquid 
assets, the absence of any significant liabilities,  and his level of cash  savings were  broadly 
consistent. And I think they showed  that he was able to afford an investment in something 
which represented a lower risk of capital loss for him, but could  still provide  him with some 
investment return.  I acknowledge  that Mr B required access to some  of the money  he 
invested towards the end of 2002. But Ive seen no evidence from the time which  indicates  
why he required access to that money, nor that this possibility  was discussed with the 
adviser at the time of the advice. There are a number of reasons  why someone might end up 
needing to cash  some of their investment,  and Im not persuaded on its own this means  the 
recommendation was unaffordable or unsuitable.
I can also see there was evidence of a discussion  around what would  happen to any income 
from the investment   and Mr B indicated he wanted to reinvest this income. I think  this 
demonstrates that he was comfortable  with the investment, and the amount of liquid funds 
he was being  advised to invest. And equally  comfortable with his disposable income and 
wasnt looking for this investment to help in that regard. 
But income does  clearly appear  to be an objective  Mr B had with this money, and I think it 
was reasonable  for the adviser to take this into account when deciding  what  type of 
investment would be suitable for him. In that regard, Im satisfied a corporate fund had the 
potential to deliver that outcome without  exposing Mr Bs investment to risks he wasnt  
willing to take.  
I have considered whether investing all this money in this particular fund increased the risk 
to Mr Bs investment to the extent  that it was no longer suitable for him. 
Like the adjudicator,  Ive been unable to find specific information  about the makeup of this 
fund at the time it was sold  and thats not surprising given the time that has passed. 
Ref: DRN73946503But its clear that while  the money  was invested in one fund, the fund itself wouldve been  
diversified to a large extent. Indeed,  a more recent factsheet about  the fund demonstrates 
that it is invested in over 280 different holdings. And I can see that, in addition to the number 
of holdings, it also invests in a variety of different  corporate bonds with credit  ratings  ranging 
from BBB to AAA  as well as across a variety  of different industries. So Im satisfied  the fact 
that the money was invested within one fund didnt increase the risk to Mr B to the extent 
that the investment was no longer suitable. 
Given everything Ive seen, Im satisfied  the fund itself was broadly in line with what  Mr B 
was after at the time of the advice.  
In particular, I think it gave Mr B the opportunity  of potentially  benefiting  from regular income 
payments which  he could then decide whether to reinvest or not, and keep his money 
relatively safe from significant  fluctuations  in value. 
Thats not to say that there werent other  suitable options for Mr B out there  including for 
example splitting his investment among different funds. 
But Im persuaded,  based on the evidence available, that HSBCs  recommendation at the 
time was in line with Mr Bs objectives and represented a level of risk which  Mr B was both 
willing and able to take. And for these  reasons  Im satisfied the advice was suitable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7394650