K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complained about the transfer in 2013  of her pension  benefits in two occupational 
pension schemes  (OPS) to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP), and to make 
subsequent investments in shares  of two small companies. She believes this was a scam 
and unsuitable  for her.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 15 October  2020.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold the complaint.
Mrs M accepted the provisional decision and did not make  any further submissions. Walker 
Crips confirmed it had no further submissions.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind that I have not received any further  submissions, my decision remains  as 
set out in the attached  provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I order  Walker Crips Investment Management Limited  to calculate 
and pay redress as set out in the attached provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN70650642copy provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M complained about  the transfer in 2013 of her pension benefits in two occupational  pension 
schemes (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), and to make subsequent investments in 
shares of two small companies. She believes this was a scam and unsuitable for her.
background
Mrs M refers to a Walker Crips employee who she dealt with regarding the pension transfer and 
subsequent investments.  I will refer to this individual  as Mr S. She also refers  to an individual who 
introduced her to Walker  Crips and was the owner  of the two companies in which she purchased  the 
relevant shares which  are the subject of this complaint.  I will call that individual Mr O. 
Mrs M held preserved pension benefits in two former  employers OPS. She was referred  to a Walker 
Crips account executive  by an unregulated  person. The account executive signed the SIPP account 
application form and the two OPS pensions were transferred to the SIPP during October 2013 and 
November 2013. 
Instructions were subsequently given to invest the SIPP in shares of two small companies. The value 
of the shares fell from around £104,000 to approximately  £28,000 by April 2017.
Mrs M complained to Walker Crips who did not uphold the complaint on the basis it did not advise her 
to transfer her pensions or start the SIPP and had arranged the investments on an execution-only 
basis with no advice being given. It said that it does not arrange  or sell  pensions  but only buys  and 
sells stocks and shares on behalf of clients who hold a pension plan. The pension  transfer was made  
at Mrs Ms request. 
Walker Crips  also said that a Mr O had introduced  Mrs M to its employee  Mr S and when the SIPP 
application was made it was on an execution  only basis. As set out in its terms of service, trades are 
executed on Mrs Ms instruction and advice  is not given. Walker Crips  was not required to assess Mrs 
Ms attitude  to risk or explain the risks of the investments. And it was not required to carry out any fact 
finding as to Mrs Ms circumstances. Its employee wouldnt give any advice  as to the shares or the 
pension transfer.  Mrs  M therefore made the decision as to what assets to invest in and she knew the 
owner of the companies into which she invested. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and recommended it should be upheld. He said:
Hed seen no evidence Mrs M was experienced  or knowledgeable about pension transfers or 
investments. He didnt consider Mrs M would have been in a position  to open the SIPP or 
instruct the pension transfers without advice.
It was rarely suitable to transfer benefits from an OPS. A view supported by the regulators 
position that advice  on such transfers should begin  with the assumption that a transfer is 
unsuitable.
The Walker Crips account executive was named as the regulated  adviser in order to open the 
SIPP and facilitate  the SIPP provider  forwarding the transfer requests to the ceding schemes. 
He considered it likely, on the balance of probability, that the account executive had advised 
on opening the SIPP and the transfers. Therefore, without the involvement of the account  
executive as a regulated person, Mrs Ms pensions  would not have been transferred and she 
would not have lost the majority of her retirement provision.
Investing in the shares of two small  unlisted  companies was very high risk and speculative.
Walker Crips had not done enough to ensure that Mrs M should be accepted as an execution-
only client  for its stockbroking service. It should have obtained  information  regarding her 
knowledge and experience in the investment  field relevant to the specific type of product or 
service it offered. Having considered the application  forms,  the adjudicator  did not consider an 
Ref: DRN70650643assessment of Mrs M had been made to determine that she was sufficiently  experienced or 
knowledgeable to be accepted  as an execution-only investor.
 
Walker Crips  did not agree and made a number  of comments.  
It said that:
Mrs M was referred to Mr S by Mr O for the provision  of execution-only share  dealing  
services. Walker Crips do not provide advice  on pensions. Its terms do not make reference to 
pension services.  
It was providing  an execution  only service.  
It does  not believe the application form for the SIPP  was signed  on the same  day as Mrs M 
and the most likely  version of events was that Mr S had completed the form and then sent it to 
Mrs M to complete  and return it to Suffolk Life. It does not find it inappropriate that Mr S 
entered his details on the form as the individual who would be providing  investment dealing  
services, as this would allow  him to receive  information from Suffolk  Life which would  assist 
with administration. The part of the form Mr S completed asks the regulated  
adviser/intermediary to complete that part before  the investor completes the rest of the form. 
It does  not ask for it to be completed by the party that has provided advice. This is evidenced 
by the fact that no adviser fees were paid to Walker Crips. 
The transfer forms for the transferred pensions do not contain any reference to an adviser.  
Therefore it has no reason to believe Mr S was involved  in completion  of these  forms.  
Mr S didnt have any obligation to assess the appropriateness of the pension  transfer. 
It has located  the telephone recordings  of Mrs Ms instructions in relation to the trades. The 
recordings make it clear that Mrs M was knowledgeable and had background  information  
about her chosen investments, instructed the purchases and Mr S had no involvement in her 
decision to trade. Mr S comments that he had never heard of the stocks involved.
It acknowledges that the forms completed by Mrs M are not sufficient  for Mr S to determine 
whether Mrs M had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks of 
investing in unlisted  smaller company shares. But Mrs M could  read and understand 
documentation. And she showed in the telephone conversations an understanding of the 
trades. COBS 10.2.6  says firms must be satisfied that the clients knowledge alone is 
sufficient for them to understand  the risks involved and it believes Mrs M demonstrated this at 
the time of the trade. 
Said that the conversation Mrs M had with it in 2017 indicates  Mrs M invested because she 
knew the owner  of the companies involved and not on advice  from Mr S.  
Mrs M provided her comments about what Walker  Crips  had said.  She said:
All I can say about the phone recordings is that I was told by (Mr O) what to say to (Mr S). I have 
absolutely NO knowledge of stocks and shares  whatsoever. 
And:
Regarding the call made to Walker Crips on 14/08/17, I was angry because I had just realised that I 
had been scammed. I spoke to another investor who had the same thing done to him by (Mr S and Mr 
O) but who has chosen  not to complain  out of fear of repercussions. 
Ref: DRN70650644Obviously he would claim not to have heard of the stock to cover his back. He knew exactly who the 
Companies were, whereas I did not. In fact, I assumed that (Mr O) owned the two companies I 
invested in, but according to Companies House he does not. 
The adjudicator considered Walker Crips comments but was not persuaded to change  his opinion. 
Therefore the complaint has been referred to me for review.
I subsequently asked Mrs M for some more  background  information about how her pensions  came to 
be transferred and the shares purchased. In summary  she said:
She was advised by Mr O to transfer her pensions  to the SIPP and had no idea she would  be 
required to buy shares. She though  that the SIPP  was another type of pension that have a 
higher pay-out.
She completed sections 1, 2.2 and 7 of the SIPP application form and Mr S completed the 
advisers details and incorrectly completed the source of wealth and funds  section 2.3 and 
other parts of the form without her knowledge.
Mr O referred her to Mr S and told her to buy the shares   he told her exactly  what  to say. He 
said the shares would make  money.
Mr O told her he knew Mr S. This is evidenced by Mr S not questioning the reference to Mr O 
in one of her telephone conversations with Mr S. 
She did not have any relationship with Mr O. Her husband  was a friend  of his at the time and 
said Mr O could be trusted.
She did not have any investments when  the pension  transfer took place and she still does  
not. She only had a bank account and her pensions. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I find Im in agreement with the adjudicator  and for 
largely the same reasons.
I believe it would be appropriate first to set out the material evidence I have seen which is relevant  to 
the outcome of this complaint:
A Walker Crips  Trust/Pension  Account Application Form. The account  name is Suffolk Life 
and it is indicated  that the investment Service is on an execution-only basis.  This sets out 
that Walker Crips would not give advice on investments. There are other sections relating to 
Walker Crips providing advice but these have not been indicted  as applicable. The form 
appears to have  been  reviewed by the Walker Crips employee  Mr S. The Advisers Details 
section of the application form records Mr S.
In the Advisers Declaration and Signature section it is indicated that the sale has been 
transacted at a distance. There then follow  sections which allow the adviser to indicate 
whether they have advised  the individual or not as to setting up the SIPP, or transferring to 
the SIPP.  Both of these  sections have been left blank. 
Walker Crips is detailed under Adviser firm name and Mrs M (under her previous name) 
has signed the form on 19 August 2013.
A Walker Crips  Execution Only Service Pension Accent Application Form. This details the 
pension as being  a Suffolk Life SIPP. The Account Classification detailing  whether Mrs M is 
Ref: DRN70650645a retail or professional client has not been  completed.  (Mrs M was later confirmed as a retail  
investor). There is a section  Category of Service. This records:
By completing this form you are applying  to open on account with Walker Crips Stockbrokers 
(WCSB) as an Execution Only client. Please complete all sections of this form,  though it is 
your decision which of our support services you select in Section H.
Under an Execution Only  Account
You make your own investment decisions.
Trades are executed upon  your specific  instruction.
We will not give advice on investments relating  to the merits of the transaction,
We will only provide factual  information such as share prices  or market  activity  on request
Mrs M has signed this form on 10 March  2016.
Mrs M has said that all the forms to set up the SIPP were  provided by Mr S who sent them to 
Mr O to be passed to her to sign. She submits that Mr S was involved with Mr O. She has 
said that Mr O was an acquaintance of her husband  and she did not know that Mr O was the 
owner of the two companies into which  she was advised  to invest. She did not know what  
execution only meant  she was instructed by Mr O to tell Mr S to invest  in the two shares. 
Confirmation  of share purchases  in Welney Plc and Ecovista totalling about £105,000  in 
October and November  2013.
Confirmation  of transfers to the SIPP of about £106,000  in September and November 2013.  
A November 2013 letter from Suffolk Life to Mrs M setting out that she owned about 11% of 
the voting rights of Ecovista.  
A Walker Crisps  Terms  of Business document which  set outs the various  services it can 
provide  including a description of execution  only services.
A letter of 1 October 2013 from Suffolk Life to Mr S of Walker Crips confirming  the transfer of 
pension value from the Royal  Mail pension. 
Mrs M has said she came  to contact Mr S at Walker  Crips because  she was referred  to him by an 
unregulated party  Mr O. The evidence  is that Mr S then facilitated the SIPP  so that the pension  
transfer could be made and subsequent investments  made. 
Although Walker Crips has said it does not give advice as to pensions or arrange such, its actions  did 
enable the SIPP to be set up and Mrs M to transfer her pensions. Whilst Walker  Crips says that its 
employee completed that form insofar as it would allow him to provide administrative  services in 
relation to the SIPP, as set out, Mr S did complete the adviser details on the SIPP application  and 
quoted Walker Crips FSA/FCA number. It is clear  that Mr S facilitated the setting up of the SIPP  so 
that the pension transfers could take place.  Furthermore Mr S was more likely aware that the SIPP 
was to be funded by transfers of other pensions  at section  2.3 the Source of funds is Transfers 
from a registered pension scheme. The SIPP  provider has confirmed  that it would  not have allowed 
the SIPP  to be set up without a regulated adviser  being involved and noted. The SIPP  provider has 
also provided  a letter of 19 August 2013 from Walker  Crips which states it encloses  a SIPP 
application and transfer details.  
The application form enclosed includes details of the pensions to be transferred  both of Mrs Ms 
occupational pensions. Walker Crips is recorded as both the adviser for the SIPP and transfers, and 
investment manager.
Ref: DRN70650646Bearing in mind  all the circumstances  and evidence  I currently believe there are overarching reasons 
why in my view Walker Crips should not have proceeded to facilitate the SIPP and share investments 
on an execution only basis or at all. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  I am required to take into account  
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of practice. I am 
also required  to take into account, where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
I consider that the FCAs Principles  2 and 6 are of particular relevance  to my decision about what is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general  statement of 
the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system  (PRIN  1.1.2G). Principles  2 and 6 
say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The Principles have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when  deciding what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Walker Crips  had very little information about Mrs M when it facilitated the SIPP and pension  transfer 
by assisting in setting up the SIPP, and had apparently no further information when Mrs M requested 
that large investments  were  made  in unquoted smaller company shares. Mr S knew that Mrs M had 
recently set up the SIPP and made defined benefit transfers when carrying out the investments in the 
shares, although it is unclear  if Mr S knew the intention was to invest in the specific shares  when the 
SIPP was being set up. I understand that Mr S no longer is employed  by Walker Crips. 
Walker Crips  did know that Mrs M earned about £30,000 a year as a claims assessor - as that 
information was included on the documentation. That would  not suggest an individual comfortable 
with or suited to investing large sums on an execution only basis into smaller company shares. 
Given what I have seen, it had no knowledge  as to whether Mrs M was the experienced or 
knowledgeable investor who was accustomed to entering into execution only transactions  into that 
kind of high risk share investment. It had classified  her as a retail client, not a professional  or 
sophisticated investor. It would have been aware that she was investing a considerable amount of 
money exclusively in high risk, smaller company  shares. More likely than not Mr S was aware that Mrs 
M had been referred to him by an unregulated  introducer  and the pension transfer, SIPP and then 
investments flowed from this. It should have been apparent to Mr S and Walker Crips that there was a 
significant chance of consumer detriment to facilitate the pension transfer to the SIPP and then deal in 
the shares without any particular  level of detail of Mrs Ms circumstances,  knowledge or background. 
 
I do not believe that Walker  Crips met its obligations under the principles to simply arrange the SIPP  
in these circumstances  so that the pension transfer could  take place  and then subsequent share  
investments on an execution only basis. It should have been  aware that there were very extensive  
risks inherent  in this which  Mrs M might not be aware  of. 
To simply  process  these  transactions where Mrs M may not have the wherewithal to likely appreciate 
all the risks herself was not acting in its customers best interest. I do not believe it could ignore these  
risks and carry out the transactions on an execution only basis. 
Ref: DRN70650647It should have either declined to facilitate  the SIPP, transfers and investments or undertaken further 
research into Mrs Ms background and circumstances. I do not believe it acted  with due care or in Mrs 
Ms interest in accordance  with Principles 2 and 6. 
  
the suitability of the SIPP and investment for Mrs M
  
Mrs M has confirmed that she did not have any other risk based investments at the time the SIPP and 
share investments were  made.  
The shares  were in individual  smaller companies  and high risk. Mrs H invested almost the entirety of 
her pension  savings in them and furthermore was a significant shareholder  so much so that she 
received individual  notification  of the size of her shareholdings. I believe given her background and 
the evidence that it is more  likely than not that she was advised to invest in this way by Mr O  and 
this was then carried out by Mr S. Mrs M faced the real possibility of losing all her money. 
Mrs Ms investment experience was extremely limited and does not suggest that she was an 
experienced investor  who could appreciate all the risks of what she was doing  or would not be reliant 
on Walker Crips to consider her best interests. She had no experience of this kind of high risk 
investment. In fact it appears she had no investment experience at all.
Mrs Hs circumstances do not indicate that she was prepared to lose all her money  or that she was 
suited to the risks these  investments presented. As a result of the SIPP  investment, virtually the 
entirety of her pension funds  were invested in high risk smaller company  shares.    
The value of Mrs Ms pension funds was modest at about £100,000.  And, as discussed, this was the 
only pension savings she had. The majority of that money  was placed  in the smaller  company  shares. 
Placing such  a proportion of the value  of the pension into two shares  of this type was clearly 
unsuitable  because of the investment risk and lack of any meaningful  diversification. 
Furthermore Walker Crips more likely, given  the evidence  I have set out, knew that that it was setting 
up the SIPP so that defined benefit transfers were to be made into a money  purchase arrangement. 
As the investigator set out, that was unlikely to be in Mrs Ms best interests  the FCA has set out that 
defined benefit transfers are unlikely to be in the consumers best interest.  In these  specific 
circumstances, where Mrs M had limited  pension provision,  where the transfer included  all her 
pensions and defined benefit  pensions  and where she had no investment experience  or propensity to 
take risk, it was clearly unsuitable for such transfers to take place.
is Walker Crips responsible for Mrs Ms loss?
The SIPP, pension transfers  and subsequent high risk investments  would not have happened but for 
Walker Cripps actions. I believe it is fair that it compensates Mrs M for the ramifications of those 
actions. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mrs M as 
close to the position she would probably now be in but for the actions of Insight.
I think  with suitable advice Mrs M would  have  kept her existing pensions. The reason for the creation  
of the SIPP was so that the pensions could be transferred and then investments made. If that had not 
gone ahead then most  likely Mrs M would  have simply  retained her original pensions.  
Walker Crips  must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
Ref: DRN70650648expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mrs Ms acceptance of the decision. 
Walker Crips  may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mrs 
Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  
according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
In addition, Insight should pay Mrs M £400 for the upset and inconvenience  she has been caused by 
the unsuitable transfer and investments. 
determination and money award: Should my final decision remain  the same I will require  Walker 
Crips to pay Mrs M compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mrs M within 
90 days of the date Walker  Crips  receives  notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must  be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of 
my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Walker 
Crips to pay Mrs M this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I will also recommend that Walker Crips pays Mrs M the balance.  I further recommend interest to be 
added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Walker Crips  to pay Mrs M from the date it receives notification of her acceptance of the decision, as 
set out above.
If Mrs M accepts my determination, the money award  is binding on Walker Crips. My recommendation 
is not binding on Walker Crips. 
Further, its unlikely that Mrs M can accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing to her after the money award has been paid. Mrs M may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Ref: DRN70650649my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  and order Walker Crips  to calculate and pay redress as 
detailed above. 
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7065064