K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mrs W took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. She paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
As the mortgage  and MPPI were sold over 15 years ago theres not much information 
available from the time they were sold. But from what I know  about  the way Halifax sold 
these policies, I think its more likely  than not that it made Mrs W aware that she had a 
choice about buying the MPPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Halifax says it recommended the MPPI  to Mrs W, and it seems to have  been  right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Although Mrs W says she was 
entitled to fairly generous sick pay from her employer, the MPPI wouldve paid out in addition  
to, and for longer than her sick pay. It wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  per claim if she 
was too unwell to work,  as well as for up to 24 months if shed lost her job. 
Mrs W also says shed have been entitled  to redundancy pay, so I can understand why she 
might think  she didnt  need the MPPI.  But she also says that shed been employed for just 
over a year when the policy  was sold. So I dont think shed have been entitled to sufficient 
redundancy pay to cover  her mortgage payments, and her other important financial 
commitments, for very long.
So given the importance of being able to repay her mortgage, I think  Halifax made  a fair 
recommendation when it sold the MPPI  policy to her, despite the existing means  she had in 
place.
I dont know how well Halifax explained  the cost of the MPPI to Mrs W. But given what  it cost 
her and the potential  amount she couldve received if shed needed to make a claim, I think 
Mrs W would  still have bought it even if Halifax did make the cost clear.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mrs W doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ref: DRN78679212I want to reassure Mrs W that Ive thought carefully  about everything shes said.  But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifax mis-sold  this MPPI policy  to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7867921