K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Eldon Insurance Services Ltd charged a fee and increased  her 
premiums when she asked it to administer changes to her motor insurance  policy.  It then 
failed to cancel  the policy when she asked  it to.
background
Mrs P took out motor  insurance with Eldon  in December  2018. About a week later,  she 
contacted it because the dates of birth for herself and the other named driver were the wrong 
way round. Eldon agreed to make the changes to the policy, but it said there would be an 
additional premium  and a £50 administration  charge.
Mrs P told Eldon  she was unhappy about  the extra charges, but it said it wasnt responsible 
for the error  as shed used  a price comparison site. It said it would waive  the administration  
charge, but the additional premium would still apply. It also said it would waive the 
cancellation fee if she wanted  to cancel the policy.
Mrs Ps explained she emailed Eldon on 19 December to tell it she wanted  to cancel the 
policy, which it did, refunding £138.20, plus £50 as a gesture of goodwill.  But, the policy  
wasnt cancelled until 26 December, and this meant  she received a reduced refund. She 
complained to Eldon and also raised a chargeback via her credit card provider  for a £55.48 
payment, which  she said wouldnt have been due if it had cancelled the policy  when shed 
asked it to. 
Eldon insisted it wasnt asked to cancel the policy until 24 December, and that the request 
was actioned two days later.  It didnt accept the email dated 19 December was ever sent. 
And it suggested Mrs P had said shed asked for the policy to be cancelled earlier than she 
did only once she realised  the refund had been  reduced  because  it was outside  of the 
cooling off period. It said that when she was first told about the refund, shed challenged the 
amount of the refund,  but not the date of the cancellation. And that she still owed it £55.48.
Mrs P wasnt  satisfied  and so she complained to this service,  with the assistance of a 
representative. She maintains she asked for the policy  to be cancelled  on 19 December and 
has produced an email dated 19 December, in which she asks for the policy to be cancelled.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She explained  that if Mrs P had 
sent the email  on 19 December, then Eldon wouldve received it, especially as it had 
provided a chain of other emails that it had received that day. She felt that if Eldon had 
received the email on 19 December, it would have cancelled the policy and, overall she was 
satisfied Eldon had acted  fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
As Mrs P wasnt satisfied, her representative  has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. They want us to contact the credit  card company for information  it holds in 
relation to the chargeback. They also maintain that Eldon was responsible for the error with 
the dates of birth and that Mrs P did send the email  on 19 December, but its been lost, 
along with all records of subsequent calls and emails she made  between  then and 24 
December. Theyve confirmed that the £55.48 has now been paid.
Ref: DRN70266442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
After Mrs P asked Eldon  to cancel the policy, she instructed her credit card company to raise 
a chargeback because she believed shed  made  a payment  to Eldon that wouldnt have  
been due if the policy had been  cancelled sooner. Mrs Ps representative has asked us to 
obtain information from the credit  card company in respect of the chargeback, but as were 
not considering  a complaint against the credit  card company, I dont  consider  this to be 
relevant. Mrs P s since  said that shes paid the £55.48  back  to Eldon, but Eldon has said it 
remains outstanding,  so Mrs P should contact it to resolve any confusion.
Ive considered the circumstances  concerning the error with the dates of birth and Im 
satisfied that, as the policy  was taken out online,  its unlikely that Eldon was responsible.  The 
policy allowed Eldon  to charge an arrangement fee at policy outset and a fee to administer 
any changes to [the] policy, and Im satisfied the fee it charged (even though  it was 
eventually cancelled)  was fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
As for the additional premium,  the policy was offered based on incorrect  information. And 
while theres no suggestion that the dates of birth were mixed up intentionally, the changes  
meant the premium at which  Eldon  was prepared to offer the insurance for increased. In 
these circumstances,  Im satisfied that Eldon  had been entitled  to increase the premium and 
that this wasnt unfair or unreasonable, especially as it offered to waive  the cancellation 
charge if Mrs P remained  dissatisfied and chose to cancel the policy.
Mrs P says she emailed Eldon on 19 December asking for the policy to be cancelled and 
that its failure to cancel  the policy until 26 December meant she received a reduced refund, 
and that she had to make a payment she otherwise  wouldnt  have had to pay. Eldon says it 
didnt receive the email  and that it wasnt asked  to cancel the policy  until 24 December.
Where theres conflicting evidence about what happened, its for me to consider whats most  
likely to have happened based on the available evidence. 
Mrs Ps sent in a screenshot  of an email dated 19 December,  and shes also forwarded the 
email to our investigator. The email appears  to have been sent in response to an email  from 
Eldon sent earlier  that day. But Eldon has provided an email chain dated between  19 
December and 24 December showing Mrs P asked  for her policy  to be cancelled  on 24 
December. The email  chain shows Mrs P did respond to Eldon on 19 December but that she 
didnt ask for the policy to be cancelled until 24 December. Crucially, the email chain doesnt  
feature the email  Mrs P says she sent on 19 December asking for the policy to be cancelled. 
Further, the email  Mrs P sent on 24 December doesnt mention that shed previously asked 
for the policy to be cancelled and it reads  as though  its the first time Mrs P is making the 
request, suggesting  to me that it was. 
Overall, taking into account all of the circumstances, I think  its most likely that Mrs P asked 
for her policy to be cancelled on 24 December and therefore Im satisfied there was no 
unreasonable delay to the cancellation  of the policy .
Ref: DRN70266443I understand Mrs P will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined  above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7026644