K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as 
the insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card which Miss F took out in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss F disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case. Having  done  so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill now explain.
Miss F has said it wasnt clear the policy  was optional.  Shes  said if she knew  she had a 
choice she wouldnt have  taken it. 
FICL has provided a copy of the card application Miss F signed for her store card. Theres 
a section titled Payment Protection which also details what the cover is for. I can see 
there is an option to tick to take PPI or a tick to decline taking PPI. I can see that the Yes 
box provided to confirm  that PPI was required has been ticked. And there is nothing here to 
indicate that she had to tick in this section  if Miss F didnt want PPI she could have  ticked 
No to not take PPI. 
Miss F has said PPI wasnt explained.  I dont know what  was discussed at the time but as 
Miss F was agreeing to additional credit, I would have expected her to have read the form 
and raised any questions she had at the time before signing in agreement  with it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely  Miss F knew at the 
time that the PPI was optional and that she decided  to take it. But I can understand why 
she might  not recall this now, as the sale took place over 20 years ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt need  to check that it was suitable, 
given her circumstances at the time. But it did need  to ensure that she was given enough  
information to decide whether she wanted  to take it. Although I dont know what was said 
to her then,  I think its likely that the information she received about the PPI could have 
been better than it was. But I dont  think better  information would have  changed her mind 
about taking the cover and Ill explain why. 
Miss F appears to have  been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN71821942Miss F says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient employee sick pay at 
the time.  However,  for no more than £1.00 per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance  the 
PPI wouldve  paid out up to 15% of Miss Fs outstanding monthly  balance,  until she returned 
to work or the outstanding  balance had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition to 
her sick pay and longer  than it would have lasted at a full rate. So I think  she would have 
valued the extra security which the policy gave her if things went  wrong. 
Ive no reason to think  the policy was unaffordable  for Miss F. And as the policys 
premiums were paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled it if it no longer  met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Miss F has said, but this hasnt changed  my mind about  not 
upholding her complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Financial Insurance
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7182194