K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSAs) decision to 
reject their pet insurance claim for their dog, D.
background
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their insurance  policy following Ds treatment for an eye ulcer 
in November 2018.
RSA considered the claim, alongside  Ds medical  history, and suspected the ulcer  may be 
linked to others which had occurred before the policy began.  Due to this, RSA spoke to a vet 
from Ds practice. They said most pets of Ds breed have issues  of recurrent ulcers due to 
the eyelids not meeting. RSA also specifically noted  reference in Ds medical history to a 
previous ulcer, in the same area of the eye, as being in a classic location for the breed.
RSA concluded  that whilst  the two ulcers were different, the underlying  condition  that caused  
them was the same. As the first ulcer had occurred before the insurance policy was taken 
out, the claim was declined based  on the following  term: 
If you or your vet notice  changes  in your  pets  health or behaviour before your policy was 
taken out, or you have  been advised before  the cover start date that a condition,  illness  or 
injury may lead to further illness or treatments, we will consider this to be a pre-existing 
condition or illness,  and it will not be covered by your policy. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree, they say the ulcer was caused by an accident  rather than an 
underlying condition. They also said the vet RSA spoke to hadnt  treated D, so their opinion  
was more general. Mr and Mrs B provided  the treating  vets notes which  said:
dog left eye in trouble again  (poss  after play with pup) rough scar medial of centre but new 
ulcer slight  more central
As part of their complaint, Mr and Mrs B were  also unhappy about  the way they were spoken 
to by RSA, saying theyd been made  to feel they and the treating vet had lied about the 
cause of the second ulcer. RSA accepted the service wasnt what  should be expected and 
offered £50 for the upset  caused. But RSA maintained their view that the claim wasnt  
covered, and so the complaint was referred to our service.
An investigator here reviewed the matter and felt the complaint  should be upheld.  She was 
persuaded that the treating vets note meant this wasnt a recurrence of an underlying  
condition, and instead had been  caused by an accident when playing with another  dog. The 
investigator recommended the claim should be paid and that RSA should also pay a total of 
£150 compensation, for the upset caused  and the delays resulting from the unfair  rejection 
of the claim.
RSA didnt agree with the investigator. Their in-house vet concluded that D is unable  to fully 
close his eyelids, and that in turn can lead to a condition which  causes dryness and irritation 
 irritation which can then lead to ulcers.
RSA considers it unlikely  that two ulcers in the same  location  could  have resulted from two 
separate traumas. They believe its more  likely  than not that the ulcers  relate  to the condition 
cited by the in-house  vet. RSA believes the treating vets reference to the possibility of 
Ref: DRN78759392trauma, play with a pup, is simply that it might have happened that way. RSA believes its 
more likely to have  been from an underlying condition  which  they believe was the cause of 
both ulcers.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved it has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint,  Id like to explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy covers them for, amongst other things, the cost of treatment arising 
out of accidents  and injuries. The issue for me to determine is whether it was reasonable of 
RSA to say the cause  of Ds ulcer was an underlying condition rather  than an accident.  And 
therefore rely on the term, which says conditions arising before the start of the policy  will be 
considered as pre-existing  and wont be covered. RSA believe the ulcer in June 2018 was 
caused by the aforementioned dryness  and irritation.
And bearing  in mind  that Ds ulcer  in November 2018 was in largely in the same place, 
although not exactly, RSA say they think dryness and irritation was the likely  cause of that 
one too. Thats because its in the same part of the eye thats exposed and is therefore 
susceptible to such conditions. Because of this RSA feels its reasonable to rely on the policy  
term cited.
I can follow RSAs logic here and understand why theyve linked the cause of the two ulcers, 
theyve shown me that ulcers caused  by dryness  and irritation are common  in Ds breed.
But Mr and Mrs B said D was playing with a puppy shortly before they noticed the ulcer. I 
believe thats why the treating vet put this as a possible cause in their notes. I think  its more  
likely than not that the treating vet would have been  aware of the general likelihood  of it 
being caused by dryness  and irritation, and given he hasnt suggested that as a possibility or 
made such a diagnosis it would seem  to me that the signs  of such  a cause werent there.
Indeed, I note RSA has also explained  that centrally located ulcers  caused by trauma  or 
accident are common in Ds breed too. Thats for the same reason, because  that part of the 
eye is exposed and therefore more likely to come into contact with something it shouldnt.
And the medical  history refers to it having  Happened a few hours ago. That language 
suggests a one-off event such as a trauma or accident. Something being described  in such  a 
way makes me think it resulted from an incident   such as that suggested  as opposed to it 
having developed from an underlying condition.
And when  I spoke to RSA they explained  that ulcers can be caused by trauma in many  
cases, although they said the drying out of the eye is just as much  a cause of ulceration. 
Having considered everything  very carefully  I believe  theres  enough reason to think that a 
claim for likely trauma or accident  was presented. For RSA to fairly reject such a claim on 
the basis they have, they would have to show that it was more  likely to have been through  
the dryness and irritation, that they say D had suffered from before the policy was taken out.
Ref: DRN78759393Bearing in mind what Mr and Mrs B have  said they believe happened, and what the two vets 
notes say, I dont think  RSA have done enough to show the more likely cause was an 
underlying condition. Particularly as they agree trauma is also a common cause of ulcers in 
Ds breed,  and the circumstances  presented give fair reason to think thats what  happened  
in this instance.
Because of this I think RSAs decision to reject Mr and Mrs Bs claim was unfair.
Mr and Mrs B have  also been unhappy with how they were  spoken to when making the 
claim, theyve explained  that this upset them and I can see why. I note RSA accepted this 
and offered £50, but I think its reasonable further compensation should be paid and I agree 
with our investigator that a total of £150  is reasonable.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. To put things right,  I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) to:
settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim for costs arising  out of the November 2018 claim, in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms;
add interest to the settlement at the rate of 8% per annum simple*,  from the date of 
loss to the date payment is issued;
pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation for trouble and upset caused to them.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires RSA to deduct  tax from this interest. RSA must give
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted,  if they ask for one
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2020.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7875939