K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Santander  UK Plc (when  it was trading as Alliance and Leicester) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out PPI whilst arranging a mortgage that started in March 2006.  The 
policy protected their mortgage repayments if Mr O was unable to work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr and Mrs O paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. 
Based on information  Mr and Mrs O told us about an ongoing  health  condition which had 
affected Mr O since  childhood our adjudicator thought Mr O probably  wasnt covered for 
absence from work  related to health  problems  due to this condition. He felt that if Santander  
had explained  this to Mr and Mrs O, then it was unlikely they wouldve wanted  the PPI. 
And so our adjudicator felt Mr and Mrs O probably  wouldnt  have bought  the policy if theyd  
understood this at the time - and that Mr and Mrs O had lost out as theyd  been  paying for it.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that any pre-existing 
medical condition  wouldve  been  discussed  at the point of sale and formed part of the 
suitability check on the policy  at the point  of sale. It said the exclusions for pre-existing 
medical conditions  wouldve  also been discussed  with Mr and Mrs O and they wouldve been  
asked all the necessary  questions  and advised  of the policy  exclusions relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. 
Santander said that Mr and Mrs O wouldve been  aware when they chose to take the policy  
that they couldnt make a claim for this condition.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive seen  some of the mortgage paperwork, including  a record  of a financial review which 
was done when Mr and Mrs O met with Santanders mortgage advisor. This shows  that the 
advisor recommended PPI to protect  Mr and Mrs Os mortgage monthly repayments. And 
the record indicates that Mrs O declined cover  and only Mr O chose to take it out. 
And I can see that there was an option  on the mortgage application that Mr and Mrs  O 
completed where they couldve  declined PPI if it wasnt something either of them wanted. 
This option is left unticked  and Mr and Mrs Os mortgage application shows they ticked  
instead next to where it says Alliance & Leicester to arrange Mortgage  PaymentCover  (this 
is what the business called the PPI it offered) 
So I think Mr and Mrs O were aware at the time that they had a choice about having  PPI  
and that they chose  to take it out to cover Mr O.
Ref: DRN70816652As Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs O it needed to sell them a policy that 
was suitable for their needs. And it needed to sufficiently highlight  the significant  details  of 
the policy to Mr and Mrs O. 
The policy seems to have  been right for Mr and Mrs O based on what Ive seen of Mr Os 
circumstances at the time. He was eligible for the policy.  The policy wouldve  paid out a 
benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful accident or sickness claim  and 
repeat claims were possible providing  Mr and Mrs O with long term cover. Mr O told us he 
wouldnt have received sick pay from his employer if he couldnt  work  so I think the policy  
couldve proved  very useful if Mr O was off work sick or disabled. 
Having PPI is more  dependable than relying on other people  to help out in the event of 
money problems. So I think  the policy couldve provided a useful  benefit  at a difficult time  
especially if Mr and Mrs O mightve had extra costs  as a result  of Mr O being off work  as a 
result of illness or disability. 
 
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr O lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs O. 
Mr and Mrs O told us that they did make Santanders advisor aware of Mr Os medical 
condition at the point of sale.  But they say they dont remember the advisor highlighting  or 
bringing to their attention the specific policy exclusions  concerning Mr Os medical  condition.  
Santander said it did explain everything Mr and Mrs O needed to know about the policy. But 
given that theres  disagreement about  this, Ive approached this complaint on the basis  that 
its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
Mr O told us he had a condition that affected  his health since he was a child  he said hed 
taken medical advice about it when he was younger and now had an annual check with his 
doctor. 
So, Ive thought very carefully about  whether  Mr Os condition made the policy unsuitable for 
him.
Under this particular policy, it says:
A chronic condition  will have one or more of the following  characteristics:
(i) it continues indefinitely;
(ii) it is constant and is controlled rather than cured;
(iii) it has symptoms which recur and have  required  consultation, treatment or care in the 
past;
(iv) it requires, long-term monitoring  or treatment, consultations, check-ups, examinations or 
tests
So I think that Mr Os condition probably met these requirements. And the policy  excluded  
payments for a chronic condition. 
This means  that Mr O wouldnt  have  been  able to make a claim for any absence from work  
arising from his condition.  
Ref: DRN70816653But, Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr Os condition  had ever affected his ability to work 
before he arranged the PPI. Mr O told us his condition hadnt  caused him any problems 
since childhood. So, when  taking  out the PPI, I dont think  he wouldve had any reason to 
think his condition was likely to impact on his work  or that he wouldve had any reason to 
expect that hed be likely to find himself off work  ill as a result of his condition for long 
enough to need to claim on the policy.  
And Mr O still had the benefit of other  cover that the policy offered. So I dont think its likely 
that his medical  condition  made the policy unsuitable for him or that having  clearer  
information about the circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve made  any 
difference to Mr and Mrs Os decision to take it out to cover  Mr O. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs O when they took out this 
insurance. But Santander says that the cost of the policy  wouldve been  shown in the 
welcome letter it sent when the policy was set up and Mr and Mrs O couldve queried it then 
if they decided  this wasnt something  they wanted  to pay for. From what  Ive seen, theres 
nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs O didnt receive  that welcome letter  and it doesnt look 
as if they queried  any of the information in it at the time. Mr and Mrs O havent suggested 
that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums.  And Mr and Mrs O wouldve signed an 
instruction form to their bank to cover the cost. So it seems they were happy  at the time to 
pay for PPI. This is a policy they pay for each month so they can cancel it at any time without 
incurring any extra cost if they no longer want to pay for this cover.   
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs O still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation. 
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell Santander  that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN70816654my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN7081665