K821x#15complaint
Miss E complains  about the response from Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys)  when  the 
final payment for her loan wasnt received.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 9 January 2020. Ive attached a copy  to this 
decision. It set out my provisional conclusions. 
Miss E accepted  my findings  and was willing to pay the outstanding loan instalment of 
£128.37 to Sainsburys  but told us she was unsure  how to do this. 
Sainsburys told us they werent convinced that they agreed  with my view that thered been 
no intention by Miss E to frustrate this agreement.  Sainsburys  told us Miss Es original 
complaint stated her belief that this was a 17 not 18 payment loan, implying  she knew  this 
payment hadnt  been made.  They said this been a genuine issue  with the direct debit 
instruction expiring, they would have  expected  the customer to have, without hesitation,  
brought the account up to date when they contacted her. But they said this hadnt happened. 
Sainsburys thought,  due the delay  of 46 months in rectifying matters, the financial 
information recorded is an accurate reflection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
I considered very carefully the points both parties  have  made.  I think  Sainsburys have taken 
my comments in relation  to any intention to frustrate the final payment due out of context. 
Those comments were made  in relation to the setting of the date cancellation  date of the 
direct debit not the whole  agreement. 
Sainsburys havent challenged  my finding  that the cancellation date of the mandate was 20 
April 2016 and that they claimed the final payment  on 21 April 2016 - after it had expired.  So 
I remain of the view that the failure to pay wasnt due to anything Miss E had done. I think  
the mandate had simply come to an end and Miss Es bank had no authority to make the 
payment.
I dont consider the length of time its taken to rectify  matters undermines  the finding  that it 
was a genuine mistake  had been made by one of the parties in setting the cancellation date 
of this direct  debit one day early  on 20 April 2016. Miss E brought  her complaint to us on 8 
September 2018 after being unable to get a response from Sainsburys. She also received 
an annual statement for the period covering 21 October 2016  to 20 October 2017 which was 
blank in terms of the account balance. More recently shes told us she remains unclear how 
or where  to make the final payment to Sainsburys.  And its taken until my review  of the facts 
to establish the anomaly around  the cancellation date and the date the final payment was 
requested. So overall  theres nothing before me which changes my conclusions and I dont 
see any reason to alter my view.
Ref: DRN75365742my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc should provide Miss E 
with the details to enable  her to make the final payment of £128.37. Once Miss E has made 
this I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to remove the entries from April 2016 and onwards form 
her credit record  and mark it as if the payment was received in April 2016 and the loan being 
satisfied and closed.  Id also expect them to confirm  the account  has now closed
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75365743complaint
Miss E complains  about the response from Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys)  when the final 
payment for her loan wasnt  received.
background
Miss E brought her complaint to us as she was unable to get a substantive response from Sainsburys  
to her concerns about  a debt collection agency contacting her about  the final payment for the loan.
Miss E took a loan with Sainsburys in October 2014  for a term of 18 months. All payments  -apart  
from that for January  2016  and the final payment in April 2016  were  made  on time and under  the 
terms of the agreement.  The January payment was late as it was initially  returned unpaid due to 
insufficient funds in Miss Es account  but was represented and paid a few days later. The final 
payment was never received by Sainsburys  and hasnt been deducted from Miss Es bank account. I 
understand the loan later defaulted due to this unmade payment.
Our Investigator didnt initially uphold  the compliant.  He found it was clear  the loan was payable by 18 
monthly payments.  And he didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly by defaulting the loan and 
recording this on Miss Es credit file. Miss E didnt  agree, she thought a number  of facts  hadnt been 
taken into consideration. She asked for a review of the case by and ombudsman but for this to be put 
on hold pending  a response to her letters  from Sainsburys. Further information was received from 
Miss Es bank.
In his second view our investigator  didnt think he could  say with any degree of certainty what  
happened to the final loan payment although it was clear that the loan had a term of 18 months. So 
Miss E was contractually  liable to make  the final loan payment of £128.37  but he thought  Sainsburys 
should remove all interest which had accrued since April 2016  and remove the negative  marker on 
Miss Es file once the payment is made. He didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly  by passing  the 
debt onto collections agencies as it was standard practice when an account  had been in default  for a 
period of time. But he thought, on balance, it would be unfair for Miss E to incur the interest and the 
credit file implications  given  that what happened  with the final payment is unclear and that there was 
evidence to show Miss E didnt cancel the direct debit.
Sainsburys disagreed and told us that contrary to the investigators view theyd sent evidence that a 
direct debit was returned  unpaid to them in April 2016  and Miss Es own bank had sent evidence 
stating their system was last engaged to release funds via the direct debit mandate in April 2016. 
Based on that they didnt agree with the investigators comment would  still expect to see an entry  
on the loan statement to show the attempt  to collect the funds and his overall opinion. Sainsburys 
thought the investigator was basing  his opinion  on how Miss Es bank laid out their statement namely 
not showing a failed direct debit request in April 2016. Sainsburys pointed out they had no control of 
how Miss Es bank set out their statements however their internal system  supported Sainsburys own 
evidence that a request for this mandate was made in the month of April 2016.
Sainsburys later sent us notes  which  they said detailed the direct debit was cancelled on 25 April 
2016 as the account had a zero balance  on that date. But they said they now knew this was 
subsequently returned unpaid after they had cancelled  the instruction meaning  a balance remained 
on the account. They  thought this emphasised their earlier argument that the instruction  was in place 
and the fact that they hadnt  received payment would either be due to Miss E not having sufficient 
funds, cancelling the instruction at her bank  or her bank cancelling the instruction. They  also re-
attached the account history  showing they claimed  the final payment on 21 April 2016. The case has 
come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im planning to come to broadly  the same conclusion as the 
Ref: DRN75365744investigator but for different  reasons. He didnt  think he could say with any degree of certainty what 
happened to the final loan payment but I disagree and Ill explain why.
The records  for the mandate for this direct debit payment from Miss Es bank have entries for both 
last claim  date  and cancellation date. And both are stated to be 20 April 2016.  Sainsburys told us 
and - their records of the account history show - that they claimed the final payment on 21 April 2016 
which was after this mandate had expired. So I think what both Sainsburys and Miss E have  told us 
here is correct  to a degree. 
Sainsburys did claim  the payment  on 21 April 2016 but the mandate  no longer existed.  So I dont 
think the failure to pay was due to anything Miss E had done. I think the mandate  had simply come to 
an end and Miss Es bank had no authority  to make  the payment. The records from Miss Es bank 
show the mandate as finished  which they say is the case  if the mandate  was set up for a period of 
time or a number of payments. They  told us once this has been completed the mandate  will show as 
finished as it. Miss Es bank  said if shed cancelled  the mandate the status would show as cancelled 
 instruction cancelled  by payer and thats not the case here.
I dont know who was responsible for setting this cancellation date on the direct debit mandate but, for 
the outcome of this complaint, I dont think it makes any difference  here. If it was set by Miss E - or 
her bank - theres noting to suggest there was any intention to frustrate the final payment. And if it 
was set by Sainsburys I dont think theyd knowingly set up a mandate to end the day before a final 
payment was due. So, either way, it seems to me to have been a genuine mistake. Sainsburys 
should get the final payment  but Miss Es credit record shouldnt be negatively impacted given these  
circumstances. So, I currently  think the fair and reasonable response  to this dispute is along  the lines 
the investigator has suggested in his second view. 
On the evidence  presently  before me, for the reasons Ive explained  above, Im planning  to ask 
Sainsburys to correct Miss Es credit file once shes made the final payment of the loan that wouldve 
been made had the direct debit mandate not expired on 20 April 2016. Once this payment has been 
made Sainsburys  should  remove the entries for the missed  payment in April 2016 and eventual  
default of this account and record that the payment was received in April 2016 as t shouldve been.  I 
think thats a reasonable  response in the circumstances of this case.
 
Ive considered whether  any compensation should be paid for any inconvenience Miss Es suffered 
but on balance I dont think thats warranted. Like the investigator I think  its clear from the agreement 
this loan was for a term of 18 months and that 18 payments were required. Although it was difficult for 
Miss E to get a helpful response  from Sainsburys  I think she knew or ought  to have known the final 
payment was due and couldve taken steps to make that but has chosen not to. But Ill consider any 
further information either party wish to send me before making a final decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that, subject to anything further that Miss E or Sainsburys Bank Plc send 
me by 9 February 2020, Im planning to uphold  this complaint. Once Miss E has made the final 
payment of £128.37 I require Sainsburys  Bank Plc to remove  the entries  from April 2016 and 
onwards form her credit  record and mark it as if the payment was received  in April 2016 and the loan 
being satisfied and closed.  Id also expect them to confirm the account  has now closed.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7536574