K821x#15complaint
Miss S complained that Nationwide Building Society  had failed  to notify her of a rise in fees 
on her packaged  bank account which resulted in her incurring charges for going  over her 
overdraft limit.
background
Miss S had a packaged bank account with Nationwide. She only used the account for the 
insurance benefits it provided  and so set up a regular direct debit to cover the fee. The fee 
increased in late 2017  but Miss S says she didnt receive any notification  of that from 
Nationwide. A friend told her the fee had increased  by £3 so she increased  her direct debit 
accordingly and added  an extra £6 to cover the shortfall from the previous two months. 
Miss S says she received a text message  in March 2018 to say her account was overdrawn  
by about £7. So she transferred £7 to the account  on the same day. She says she was then 
notified in August 2018 that her account  was overdrawn by about £170.  She complained to 
Nationwide.
Nationwide said Miss Ss account had entered an unarranged overdraft facility at the end of 
October 2017, which is when the account  fee had increased by £3. It said it had sent a letter  
to all its members  about the increase in subscription  fee. It said Miss S had then paid £10 
into the account but another  £13 was debited at the end of November. And although she 
then paid more  funds into the account  in December, shed incurred overdraft  fees which 
hadnt been covered by those payments. This led to a cycle  of charges. It said all the 
charges were notified on her monthly statements,  which were available  online. It said it sent 
an email every month to say the statement was ready  to be viewed. And the charges had 
been applied  in line with the terms and conditions of her account. Nationwide  said it had also 
sent a letter  in March 2018  to say the account  was overdrawn. It said its accounts were self 
monitored and it was the responsibility of account holders to check their statements and 
ensure they had sufficient funds to cover  any charges. Miss S wasnt happy  with this 
response and approached  this service.
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong as it had given Miss S the 
information she needed to manage her account  and keep  it in credit.  He was satisfied 
notifications had been sent and further information was available  to her if shed looked at her 
monthly statements. He said Nationwide had refunded £50 in charges as a gesture of 
goodwill and he didnt  think it would be fair to ask it to do anything more.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators  view and so the matter  was referred to me to 
make a final decision. Miss S said she hadnt seen  any information from Nationwide  about 
the increase in fees and saw that as being  the root cause of the subsequent charges on her 
account. She said she only used the account  to pay for the benefits it provided  which  was 
why information  sent on the account might  not have been important to her. But she felt it was 
clear she would have  done all she could to have  avoided the charges. And thought  it would 
be fair and reasonable to assume  she would have increased her direct  debit by £3 had she 
known about the fee increase, rather than get in to this stressful situation.  She also referred 
to a report by the Competition and Markets Authority  (CMA)  which she believes supports  her 
complaint.
I didnt agree with all the investigators findings  so I sent a provisional decision to Miss S and 
Nationwide to explain why I intended to come  to a slightly different outcome to the 
Ref: DRN71589392investigator. Neither party replied so my findings and decision below are substantially  the 
same as set out in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss S has said, the problems with her account began when Nationwide increased the 
subscription fee from £10 to £13. Nationwide says it sent a letter to all of its members  to 
notify them of the increase and Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen  that a letter  was 
sent to Miss S. The new fee was applied  to her account at the end of October 2017 and 
although Miss S increased her direct  debit and put some  money  into the account  to cover 
the shortfall, it was too late by then and shed already incurred charges. This led to a cycle of 
charges as there werent  enough funds being put into her account  to keep the account in 
credit. Her account moved  in and out of credit for several months until March  2018 when the 
account was in a continuous debit position  up to August 2018  when  Miss S paid the balance 
due.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ss account  say that Nationwide will charge a fee of £5 per 
day for the use of an unarranged overdraft. This is capped at £50 per month. Having seen 
the details of Miss Ss account, Im satisfied the fees and charges applied  to her account  
between November 2017 and August 2018 were  applied  in line with those terms and 
conditions. 
But I also need to consider whether Nationwide gave Miss S enough information for her to 
be reasonably  aware that her account was in debit and what she needed  to do to avoid 
incurring more charges.  Nationwide provided monthly statements that informed  her of the 
position of her account, including  any charges and fees that had been  applied. And those 
statements also set out the fees it charged  for the use of any unarranged overdraft. So, I 
think there was enough  information in those statements for Miss S to know  what was 
happening on her account. And I also think it was fair for Nationwide  to say Miss S had a 
responsibility to check  her statements and make  sure she had enough funds in her account 
to keep it in credit. 
But there are other ways  businesses like Nationwide notify  customers  about the fees and 
charges theyre  incurring.  Miss S has referred to a CMA report about directions it made to 
Nationwide in August 2019 following a number of breaches of Part 6 of the Retail Banking 
Market Investigation  Order 2017. Those breaches  included text alerts  not being sent but also 
text alerts being sent that werent compliant with that Order.  The Order  said that alerts 
should warn the customer if theyve  already  gone over, or are likely to go over, their agreed 
overdraft limit. And the alerts should  tell the customer  they could incur charges and how long 
a grace period they have to take action to avoid those charges. In their August  2019 
directions, CMA said some of the texts sent by Nationwide failed to make  clear  to customers 
they could incur charges by failing to take action, which they said was an important part of 
the order.
The evidence in this case shows that Nationwide sent three  text alerts to Miss S during the 
period her account  was open  - in February, March and August  2018. The first two of those 
alerts werent compliant  with the CMA regulations,  as they didnt specify  that fees might 
apply or what the timescales were to avoid further  fees. The third alert was compliant as it 
included reference  to the fees that might be applied and the timescale in which to respond to 
Ref: DRN71589393avoid those fees. The February 2018 alert was triggered because Miss S entered an 
unarranged overdraft facility at the beginning of that month. But the account moved  back into 
a credit position two days after the text alert. Nationwide  told me Miss S wasnt due a refund 
because of that particular non-compliant text alert, and that seems fair because  no charges 
were applied to the account in the few days between the alert and when her account moved 
back into credit. But it said she was due a refund for a short period of time in March 2018,  
from when the text alert was sent at the beginning of that month  until 23 days later when 
Miss S was notified  her statement was available, which  showed  she was in an unarranged  
overdraft and how much she was being charged.  
Nationwide said Miss S was due a refund of £11.50 for that period of time. Thats the amount  
of fees it charged  her for those 23 days in March 2018. It hadnt paid her that amount 
because it had agreed with CMA to apply a £25 de minimis threshold to refunds, to reflect  
the costs involved  in contacting customers. This meant it didnt pay refunds of less than £25 
to its customers, unless they had an open  account.  So, as Miss Ss refund was less than £25 
and she closed her account before the refund  was payable,  I think it was reasonable for 
Nationwide not to have paid her that amount at the time.
Nationwide has now agreed  to pay the £11.50 due to Miss S, despite the amount being  
below the de minimis threshold of £25. And, in light of all the evidence,  I think  thats fair.
Nationwide has a responsibility to keep its customers notified  of the position of their bank 
accounts and any charges  or fees being applied. In this case, Im satisfied Nationwide  
notified Miss S in 2017 it was increasing  the fee on her account. It also notified her when her 
statements were ready  to be viewed. It sent her text alerts when  she went  into an 
unarranged overdraft facility and although two of those texts didnt include all the information 
they should have done, Nationwide  has agreed  to refund the charges  that arose because of 
them. And, on balance,  I dont think it needs to do any more.  
Miss S has said she only used the account for the benefits it provided and I can understand 
why she might have thought there  was less need  to pay attention to what  was happening  on 
the account. But I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to say she had a responsibility 
to check her statements  and make sure she had enough funds in her account to keep it in 
credit. I dont doubt she would have done  all she could to have avoided the charges if she 
was aware of them  but I think Nationwide gave her sufficient notification  of the position of 
her account  and the charges it had applied.
Ref: DRN71589394my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct  Nationwide  
Building Society to pay Miss S a total of £11.50 to refund  her for the fees she incurred in 
March 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March  2021.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7158939