K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he financed under a combined hire purchase  and 
fixed sum loan agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance 
(Motonovo). 
background
Mr K acquired a used  car in October  2016 for around £10,000 using a combined hire 
purchase and fixed  sum loan agreement with Motonovo. The car was five years  old and had 
covered around  100,000 miles.  He also paid for a service plan and carried  over negative 
equity from a previous  deal.
Shortly after Mr K acquired the car he complained to the supplying  dealer that:
The car was sold as having  covered 97,000 miles, but it had covered 100,000.
The boot didnt  open by the remote control.
Pre-sale checks werent completed just before he acquired the car. 
A warning light came  on about  a faulty brake light. 
There were  a number of scratches on the paint and metalwork.  
He wasnt provided with a satellite navigation  (Sat Nav) system as promised. 
He wasnt given  the spare key straight  away. 
Mr K corresponded with the supplying dealer over a few days.  The supplying dealer initially  
highlighted that Mr K had the opportunity to inspect the car before he acquired  it. It said that 
a brake  light could fail at any time.  And it said that the mileage  discrepancy  didnt affect  the 
price of the car. But if offered  to fix the other issues for Mr K and it confirmed it would supply 
him with the Sat Nav system. It also offered him £300 to resolve  his complaint. 
Mr K spoke to Motonovo about the problems. Motonovo liaised with the supplying dealer. Its 
notes say that the supplying dealer offered  to go through a withdrawal with Mr K that day. 
From what  I can see, Mr K didnt go through  with this, but he accepted the supplying dealers 
£300 offer and repairs the following day. 
Mr K received the £300  in November  2016  from the supplying  dealer and collected his car. 
At this time, he also asked it whether it had arranged GAP insurance  for him as agreed  at 
the point of supply. The supplying dealer gave Mr K the insurers details. 
Mr K has raised further complaints since collecting his car. Hes complained that:
He wasnt eligible for GAP insurance  because his cars mileage was too high for the 
insurers criteria.
He wanted  to reject the car within  the first 30 days, but was unfairly  told by the 
supplying dealer this wasnt possible.
The supplying dealer didnt set up his agreement properly.
Staff at the supplying dealer have misled him throughout. 
The supplying dealer incorrectly told him in November  2017 that his car had a battery 
issue, and his cars timing  chain  caused  an engine failure  six months later  costing 
around £2,000  to fix. 
Ref: DRN71759702Motonovo responded to Mr Ks complaint and said that without evidence to show  the more 
recent faults were there at the point of supply  it wouldnt  be able to help.  The supplying 
dealer said it wasnt  responsible for the recent  faults, but it said Mr K could claim up to 
£1,000 under warranty.
Mr K wasnt  happy, so brought the complaint against  Motonovo to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary,  she felt the 
supplying dealers offer to fix the initial faults and to pay £300 was fair. She was also 
satisfied that it resolved  the initial issues and made sure Mr Ks agreement  was set up 
correctly. She didnt think that Mr K had lost out by not having the GAP insurance.  She didnt 
think the more  recent problems with the car would likely have  been  there  at the point  of 
supply, so she didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree with the findings. He said he wouldnt have bought the car if he wasnt able 
to get GAP insurance. He said the supplying  dealers  website  said that cars it sells would 
only have one previous owner  whereas the car he was supplied  had two previous owners. 
He also said the car didnt  come with a multi-function steering wheel as advertised. Mr K has 
now voluntarily terminated his hire purchase  agreement, and Motonovo  has agreed to write 
off the outstanding balance of the fixed sum loan part of the agreement. Nevertheless, Mr K 
remains unhappy.
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the complaint  has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
quality of goods and problems at the point of supply
The car was supplied to Mr K under  a regulated  consumer  credit agreement. Our service is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. Motonovo is the supplier of the goods under this 
sort of agreement,  and is responsible for dealing with complaints about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  covers agreements like the one Mr K entered into. 
Under these sort of agreements, there is an implied  term that the goods supplied  will be of 
satisfactory quality. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price  paid and other relevant circumstances.
In Mr Ks case, the car was a used  with a cash price of around £10,000. It had covered 
around 100,000 miles when he acquired  it, so Id have different expectations of it compared  
to a brand  new car. 
Ref: DRN71759703Its clear that there were some issues when Mr K acquired the car. There were  a few faults 
with it and the mileage  was slightly  higher than advertised. Indeed, Mr K also recently found 
out that the steering  wheel wasnt a multi-function  one, as was advertised.  Even though the 
car was well used, it should have still been of satisfactory quality and as described. And from 
looking at what was wrong with it, and taking  into account the misdescriptions made  by the 
supplying dealer  I dont  think  it could  be considered a standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory.  
To make matters  worse,  Mr K also suffered some further inconvenience when he wasnt  
given the Sat Nav or spare key straight  away. And because of the mileage on the car, he 
wasnt able to organise GAP insurance   and this seems  like it was very important to him. 
There were also some  issues with the settling  of Mr Ks previous agreements. Overall, I can 
understand why Mr K was very disappointed at the point of supply. As the supplier of the 
goods under  these  sorts of agreements, Motonovo is responsible  for the quality of the car 
that was supplied. And its responsible  for the antecedent negotiations carried out by the 
supplying dealer because section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 says that it can be 
held liable  for these  negotiations. 
What I have to bear in mind, however, is that, ultimately, Mr K agreed  to have the repairs 
carried out on the car, and he accepted a settlement of £300. This seems to have resolved 
things at the time for him. I can see that Mr K enquired about handing back the car. It looks 
like Motonovo and the supplying dealer liaised with Mr K and discussed unwinding the 
agreement. But Mr K told the supplying dealer that he accepted the repair work and 
compensation. So I think he chose to accept  it. From reading  the correspondence,  on 
balance, I dont think he was forced  to do so. 
Ive thought about the action that was taken to put things right for Mr K when he acquired the 
car. The car was repaired to a satisfactory standard.  The supplying dealer offered the Sat 
Nav and the spare key. The difference in mileage didnt have a significant  impact on the 
price of the car. But its clear Mr K was put to some  trouble. He had to contact Motonovo and 
the supplying  dealership  a few times to get things  sorted out, and he had to take the car in to 
be repaired. I think the £300  offered is reflective of the trouble and upset caused to Mr K. I 
dont think Motonovo  needs to take any further  action in relation to this part of the complaint. 
Even though  Mr K complained he wasnt able to purchase GAP  insurance after the initial 
problems, he hasnt  suffered a financial  loss because  of it. Of course, I can understand why 
Mr K would have been concerned and unhappy at the time. But, fortunately,  Mr K didnt need 
to use the insurance,  and so it clearly wouldnt make any sense for it to be backdated and for 
Mr K to pay for the use of something  that he didnt ultimately require.  Hes now handed the 
car back too. So Im not going to direct Motonovo to do anything about this part of the 
complaint. 
ongoing problems  with the supplying  dealer
Mr K has complained about further issues hes had with the supplying dealer. He says staff 
there have  misled him. Hes also unhappy  with information provided by the supplying dealer 
about the more recent faults with the car. However, I have to bear in mind that this complaint 
is set up against  Motonovo   not the supplying dealer.
Ref: DRN71759704Even though  I can fairly consider a complaint about the antecedent negotiations carried  out 
by the supplying dealer against Motonovo, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the ongoing 
customer service  after those negotiations were carried out. So essentially this means that I 
cant hold Motonovo  responsible for the problems Mr K had with the supplying  dealer after 
he entered into the agreement. 
Mr K could take up his concerns again  with the supplying dealer directly.  But I should point 
out that if hes unhappy with its response, it may not be something our service can consider 
if its just about the service received  after the agreement was entered  into. 
recent problems with the car
Mr K also said there were problems  with the car around a year after he acquired it. I dont, 
however, think there is sufficient evidence to show that, on balance the issues  relating to the 
battery and the engine  were likely present  or developing at the point  of supply. The car was 
five years old and had covered around  100,000 miles when Mr K acquired it. He was able to 
cover around 10,000  miles in the car before the more recent  issues came to light.  I think it 
unlikely Mr K would  have been able to cover this distance in the car if the problems were 
there at the point  of supply. 
Taking this into account, I dont think Motonovo is responsible for covering  any costs Mr K 
incurred as a result of the more recent problems with the car. 
conclusions
Mr K was supplied a car that wasnt of satisfactory  quality. There were further issues with the 
sale as well. But I think that the £300 compensation that Mr K received at the time is a fair 
reflection of what went wrong. And while I can understand Mr Ks frustration, I dont  think 
Motonovo needs to take any action  in relation to the GAP insurance, and I dont think  I can 
fairly recommend it refund anything for the recent  issues. 
Im not going  to direct Motonovo to take any further  action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7175970