K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited,  trading as Alphera Financial Services,  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that he signed in May 2018. He had a health check  on the car the following month 
because he was going to be driving it overseas and a number of issues were  identified. He 
complained to the dealer  about those issues and it said that the warranty  would cover the 
issue with the parking  sensors but the other issues were wear  and tear items. 
He complained to Alphera  Financial Services about  those issues  in October 2018 and its 
records show that the cars mileage at that time was 71,000 miles. It arranged for the car to 
be inspected by an independent expert in March 2019 but it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr C also complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
faults couldnt be replicated when  the car was inspected so it could not have been  faulty 
when Mr C bought  it. So he thought  that Mr C could not reject the car and have a 
replacement  or have  the agreement terminated.  He felt that the offer to take the car back 
to the dealer and have inspections carried out to get to the root cause of the problem was a 
fair offer. 
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary  and amongst other  things, that:
the faults identified in the health  check were  present when he bought  the car;
the car should  be good for 150,000 miles;
he would  have  been happy for the faults  to have  been repaired but neither the dealer 
nor Alphera Financial Services has asked him to return  the car or offered to repair 
the faults;
the car wasnt properly inspected; and
the car was misrepresented to him because he was told that it had a full service 
history but he has evidence to show that two of the services  were missed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was supplied to Mr C in May 2018  and he arranged the health check on it about 
three weeks later. The health check identified that the steering rack support plate was loose  
causing a noise (and it was tightened  which dealt with the noise) and a faulty parking sensor.  
It also listed eighteen advisories.
Mr C contacted the dealer about  the parking sensor fault and the advisories and it said that 
the warranty would cover a repair of the parking sensor but the advisories were wear and 
tear items. Mr C was concerned about  the advisories so he complained to Alphera Financial 
Services in October 2018. 
Ref: DRN73904062Alphera Financial  Services,  as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Mr C. Whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was about  seven 
years old, had been driven  for about 66,000  miles  and had a price of £13,000.  Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car must  be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
Alphera Financial  Services  arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in 
March 2019. The inspection report recorded  the cars mileage as 72,210  miles and 
concluded:
In the engineer's opinion,  being  based  on evidence written, reported and observed  
during today's assessment  of the identified vehicle,  the following can be concluded:
I can not confirm injector  failure on this vehicle, no diagnostics  were available  
to me and with the exception of soot/carbon present on the back  of the 
engine, no signs of failure were present during today's inspection.
The gearbox was covered  by an undertray,  I can not confirm the complaint 
about the gearbox.
The parking  sensors  worked front and rear, as expected,
No fault was found with the vehicles rear suspension during today's 
inspection.
Mr C says that the car wasnt inspected properly. But it was inspected  by an organisation 
that is widely accepted as providing  independent inspections  of, and evidence about,  cars  
and Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show  that the car wasnt inspected  
properly or that its unfair or unreasonable for me to take account of the reports  conclusions.
The car passed an MOT  test in May 2018  and the dealer confirmed that the car had been  
serviced by the same  manufacturers main  dealer  from new and that a service  and full health 
check were carried out prior to the car being supplied to Mr C. It also confirmed that the 
engine had not been removed from the car. The dealer said  in an e-mail that was sent to 
Mr C in July 2018   that it was happy  to take the car back to that manufacturers main  dealer 
to confirm the faults that had been identified in the health check that Mr C had provided to 
find out why they did not show on its own health  check. But Mr C didnt accept that offer and 
didnt return the car to the dealer or the manufacturers main dealer.
Mr C has obtained information about  the cars  service history. It shows  that the car was 
serviced in August 2012, September 2013, August 2015, January  2017 and January 2018. 
So there was a gap of 23 months between the second and third services and a gap of 
17 months between the third and fourth  services.  The advertisement for the car says that it 
has a full and complete [manufacturers] main dealer service history . 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Mr C complained to the dealer or to Alphera Financial 
Services that the car was misrepresented to him  and his complaint that the car was 
misrepresented to him was only raised some  months after hed complained to this service. 
So Im unable to consider  his complaint that the car was misrepresented  to him as part of 
this complaint. If he wants to make  a complaint that the car was misrepresented  to him he 
should first complain about that to Alphera  Financial Services and then, if hes not satisfied 
with its response,  he may be able to complain  to this service about it. 
Ref: DRN73904063The service  information  shows  that the cars  engine oil and filters were changed and the 
brake fluid was replaced when the car was serviced  in January 2018. The car had a health  
check at that time and it passed an MOT test in May 2018 before it was supplied to Mr C. 
The cars mileage at the time of that test was 66,346  miles and the invoice for the car says 
that the mileage  was 66,000 miles. Mr C says that the cars mileage when it was supplied  to 
him was 67,051 miles  but when  it was inspected in March  2019 it had been driven for 
72,210 miles so it had been driven for 5,000  miles  between  May 2018 and March 2019   
including being  taken overseas without any issues. The inspection  didnt  identify any faults 
with the car.
Since then Mr C says that the cars rear suspension  has failed so it cant  be driven and that 
theres an issue with the cars injectors. He says that the car is parked on his drive and that 
its mileage is 72,894 miles. The June 2018  health  check included  an advisory that cover 
around rear air suspension pump  and valve damaged but it didnt refer to an issue with the 
cars suspension. It also included an advisory that injector blow by on left hand bank 
requires further  investigation. Ive seen no evidence to show  that Mr C has returned the car 
to the dealer to have a further investigation  of the injector - or that hes had any work done 
on the suspension pump cover or injector. The independent expert was unable  to confirm a 
fault with the injectors, it said that no fault was found  with the cars rear suspension and Mr C 
was able to use the car to drive more  than 5,000  miles  after the car was supplied  to him.
The car was seven years old and had been driven  for about 67,000 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr C. There was an issue with the steering rack that was repaired and a fault 
with the parking sensors was identified.  The repair  of the cars parking sensor would be 
covered by the warranty. Im not persuaded that the advisories  that were  included on the 
June 2018 health check are enough to cause a car of this age and mileage to have  been  of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Mr C.
The dealer  offered to take the car back to that manufacturers main dealer to confirm  the 
faults that had been identified in the June 2018  health check and if any faults were  confirmed  
to have been present with the car when it was supplied  to Mr C I would  expect the dealer or 
Alphera Financial  Services  to arrange  for those faults to be repaired. 
Mr C says that the car now cant be driven because of the rear suspension failure  and hes 
continued to make the monthly payments under the agreement to Alphera Financial 
Services. I sympathise with him for the issues that hes had with the car and for the repair  
costs that he may now have to pay. But other than the issues  with the steering rack and the 
parking sensors,  Im not persuaded  that theres  enough  evidence to show that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied to him. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Alphera Financial Services  to allow  
Mr C to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to the car or to take any other action in response  
to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN73904064Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390406