K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Newcastle Building Society mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 20 June 2019, a 
copy of which is attached.
I didnt conclude that the complaint should be upheld. I thought it was possible the 
information Newcastle  Building Society gave Mr and Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But I explained  why I thought they wouldve  still taken  the policy, even if 
better information had been provided.
I invited both parties to provide further  evidence or information,  but neither had anything  to 
add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional evidence or information,  I find no reason to 
depart from the conclusions reached  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75212772copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Newcastle  Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out in 1999. The policy  was taken  out to cover their 
mortgage and was in Mr Ss name only. It provided  him with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicators didnt recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs S didnt
agree so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im not minded to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Let me 
explain why.
I dont know what was discussed  about  PPI at the time, if anything.  But the mortgage application form 
included equally clear  options  to accept or decline the PPI and the yes  box has been ticked. There 
were also tick boxes for who should be covered  and the type of cover required,  both of which were  
completed. This suggests to me that some discussion mustve taken  place and that Mr and Mrs S 
decided the policy should  be in Mr Ss name only and that they wanted him to be covered for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. At a later date, Mr S completed a separate form for PPI which 
included three equally clear  options   to accept or decline  the PPI or to confirm a policy  had been 
arranged with a third party.  Mr S signed  the form and chose  to take the policy.
So, overall,  I think Newcastle made Mr and Mrs S aware  that PPI was optional and they chose  to take 
it out. 
Ive taken into account that, in order to obtain  a preferential mortgage rate, Mr and Mrs S needed to 
take out one of three insurances  buildings  or contents cover or PPI. But this doesnt change my 
conclusion. If they hadnt wanted to take out any of these products, they couldve arranged  a different 
mortgage  either with Newcastle  or another provider.  They  chose to take out buildings cover and 
PPI, so they mustve  wanted both policies.
Mr and Mrs S say Newcastle recommended  the policy  to them. They say that the wording in the PPI 
leaflet says, It is now Government policy that borrowers should be encouraged.  which, they say, 
made them  feel they should  take the PPI. But the wording isnt a personalised recommendation aimed 
at Mr and Mrs S. Its just a general comment for anyone reading the leaflet.  So I dont find that 
Newcastle recommended  the policy  to Mr and Mrs S.
As Newcastle  didnt recommend the policy, it didnt need  to ensure  that it was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs S. They  had to decide that for themselves.
So the key question I need to consider is did Newcastle give Mr and Mrs S information  that was clear, 
fair and not misleading  in order to put them in a position where they could make  an informed choice 
about the insurance they were thinking about buying?
Ref: DRN75212773And, if there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider whether Mr and 
Mrs S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  such  as not 
taking out the policy  if there  hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
Its possible the information Newcastle  gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy  if they had received 
better information. I say this because:
 Mr S says he might  not have  been  eligible  for the policy because  he was employed offshore 
and on a contract basis. Weve asked Mr S to provide more  information  and evidence about his 
working arrangements  in 1999, but unfortunately he hasnt provided anything. I can see he 
made two claims on the policy  and both were unsuccessful  so its possible he didnt meet  the 
eligibility conditions. But without  more  evidence, I dont have enough  to conclude that Mr S 
wasnt eligible for the policy.
 From what hes currently told us, I dont  think Mr S was affected by any of the conditions 
limiting the policys main benefits such as those  affecting self-employed people or people with 
pre-existing medical conditions.  As he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I 
think it unlikely better information about the policys  exclusions and limitations wouldve 
changed his and Mrs Ss decision.
 Mr S told us he wouldve received sick pay for three months or more, but less than six months 
from his employer. And that he had some savings. But the mortgage was a major  long term 
financial commitment  and Mr and Mrs Ss home was at risk if they couldnt  meet  the 
repayments. The policy  wouldve covered their mortgage payments for up to 12 months if they 
couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident so couldve been  a useful benefit.  It also covered 
Mr S if hed become unemployed.
 The mortgage  offer set out what the policy would cost each  month. So I think Mr and Mrs S 
were aware it would cost £5.54 each month before they took it out.
For the reasons  Ive explained, at present, I dont think Mr and Mrs S wouldve  made  a different 
decision about taking  out the policy  if better information had been provided to them  overall  I think 
they would have still taken  out the policy.
I will consider any further evidence or information the parties wish to send me, including anything 
more Mr S is able to provide about his employment, before I make my final decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7521277