K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that BMW  Financial  Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) wont amend entries 
on his credit file in relation to a hire purchase  agreement he had. 
background
In September  2014, Mr C acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from 
BMWFS. In late 2016, Mr C exercised his right to voluntary terminate the agreement. 
However, BMWMFS said he was still required to make  a payment of £3,549.27 in order to 
satisfy his voluntary  termination liability. 
After Mr C returned the car, BMWFS  added  further charges to the agreement as Mr C had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. The total amount it was therefore  asking 
Mr C to pay was £4,996.04. Mr C said he was in financial  difficulty and tried to negotiate  a 
payment plan for the outstanding balance. During this time, BMWFS  were  reporting on 
Mr Cs credit file that he was in arrears  on his agreement. 
BMWFS solicitors negotiated settlement terms for the outstanding balance  with Mr C. A 
proposal was accepted  by Mr C following  an email  in September  2018. It is the terms of this 
settlement that are in dispute. Mr C says that he agreed to pay £3,549.27, followed by a 
payment of £500  in repayments  of £65 per month.  The effect of this would be that his credit 
file would show the debt as fully satisfied and that all previous arrears markers would be 
amended to show he was in an arrangement to pay. BMWFS says that it never  agreed  to 
apply an arrangement to pay marker to Mr Cs credit file. It says it has marked  the credit file 
as fully satisfied  as Mr C did make the agreed  payments. 
Both parties  have provided a copy of the email from BMWFS  solicitor  which  set out the 
terms of the settlement Mr C agreed to. However, the content of these emails  is different in 
the version Mr C has supplied to that which BMWFS has supplied. Mr C says that as he 
made the agreed payments,  BMWFS  should  be recording an arrangement  to pay instead of 
arrears. But BMWFS doesnt agree,  as it doesnt  believe that was ever part of the settlement 
agreement.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She wasnt satisfied that 
BMWFS or its solicitor  had agreed to amend Mr Cs credit file to show he was in an 
arrangement to pay. She said the other  emails  shed seen  didnt demonstrate that what  Mr C 
had provided was likely to be the true settlement agreement between  him and BMWFS. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he had it in clear  writing that BMWFS  would amend his credit file 
to show an arrangement to pay.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided a copy of the email  he says he received from BMWFS solicitors. This 
email is identical to the version BMWFS  has supplied except for the inclusion of the following 
sentence at the end of the penultimate  paragraph (which details the terms of the settlement): 
Ref: DRN77325342When the arrangement is settled then the account  will show  full settlement and 
arrangement to pay will show.
Having considered the two versions  of the email and all the wider available  evidence  and 
circumstances, Im not persuaded, on balance, that the email Mr C has provided  is likely  to 
be the true version of the settlement agreement.  Ill explain why. 
The added sentence that was included in Mr Cs email is inconsistent  with the language and 
grammar used in the rest of the email. The language used within that sentence  is not what  
Id expect to see from a business familiar with credit  file reporting or credit  agreements in 
general. I note that in the rest of the email the solicitor refers to the terms credit agreement , 
credit  file and credit reference agencies when referring to updates to Mr Cs credit records. 
These words  arent included in the additional wording of Mr Cs email, which makes it appear 
to have been written  by someone else to the person that wrote the rest of the email.  
There are further examples of inconsistency. For example, the solicitors  email repeatedly 
uses the word settlement  which is wording I would expect to see in this type of 
communication. Further, when discussing credit  file updates, it uses the words  reflect  or 
report, which again Id expect to see. However,  the added  sentence  in Mr Cs email  uses  
the word settled and show  instead.  While  grammatically that might  be correct in the 
sentence that was included, its inconsistent with the language used elsewhere, as well as 
inconsistent with the language I would have expected to be used in communications of this 
nature. 
While it is of course possible  that the copy of the email Mr C has provided represents the 
true agreement he had with BMWFS, Im not persuaded it is. Ive also reviewed the 
communication between  Mr C and the solicitors both prior to and after that email. Having 
done so, Ive not seen anything to make  me think that the version of the email Mr C has 
supplied is more likely to be the true copy of what was agreed. I dont therefore think  
BMWFS needs to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7732534