K820x#14complaint
Ms R says she was mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In 1995 Ms R opened a store card account.  PPI was added  to her account in April 2002  
following a telephone call.
The policy cost £1.00 per £100  Ms R owed on her store  card and it protected  Ms Rs store  
card monthly repayments if she couldnt work.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ms R disagreed.  Ms R mainly  complains  that 
she hasnt gained anything from having  PPI and she didn't know she was paying for it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint.
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont  know what it may have said to Ms R when the policy  was sold.  But based on what 
this service knows about the sales process,  and given that the policy  was added sometime 
after shed made her store card application, I think Ms R wouldve  been aware  that the policy  
was optional. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Ms R to remember  exactly what mightve happened so 
many years ago. On balance, I think its likely that Ms R decided  to buy the policy  offered to 
protect her card monthly repayments.
I dont think FICL advised Ms R to take out the PPI. This means  FICL  didnt have  to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Ms R with clear information  
about the policy so she could decide  if she wanted  to take it out. 
Looking at the sort of policy that its likely Ms R had it appears that she was eligible for the 
cover it offered. And it doesnt  look as if she was affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about the policy  exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Ms Rs decision  to take it out. 
The policy paid out a benefit  if Ms R couldnt  work as a result  of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card each month  until the 
outstanding balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back  to work. 
It wouldve  paid out on top of sick pay. This couldve been  a useful benefit at whats likely to 
have been a difficult time if Ms R needed to claim  bearing in mind that she mightve  had 
extra costs  if she was ill or disabled. 
Ref: DRN73738072So I think Ms R couldve  benefitted  from having the policy. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Ms R to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Ms R had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought  the 
policy potentially useful.  Ms R took out the policy when she didnt have to, so it seems  she 
wanted the cover and was happy to pay for it at the time. If her circumstances changed she 
couldve cancelled the policy  if she no longer wanted to pay for it.
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information wouldve put Ms R off taking out 
the policy, given  her situation at the time.
Ive taken into account that Ms R says she wouldve claimed on the policy if shed known she 
had it. But that doesnt mean that the policy must  have been mis-sold  when  she took it out 
and it isnt a reason for me to uphold her complaint.  
Even if FICL  didnt give Ms R all the information  it shouldve  done when it sold her the policy,  
I havent seen  enough information to be able to say that Ms R has lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  did wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything  to put things right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7373807