K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (British  Gas)  caused damage to her 
home when  it attended her property. 
background
In January 2018 Mrs P contacted British Gas because the bathroom toilet wasnt  flushing.  A 
plumber appointed by British Gas attended Mrs Ps home, and said they thought  a blockage 
was the cause of the problem. So, a drainage expert attended the property on the same day 
and unblocked  the toilet. This solved  the problem.
Later in 2018  Mrs P said she noticed  that her bathroom floor was swelling and that there  was 
water damage appearing within her kitchen. So, she contacted British Gas about this. It 
attended and let her know  there was water escaping  from the toilet because of a leak on the 
flushing cone.  Mrs P said the British Gas engineer attending on that occasion told her the 
damage must have  been caused by the engineers that attended earlier in the year to 
unblock the toilet. Mrs P said she also felt this was the case.
Mrs P made a claim under her home  insurance policy for the damage caused by the water  
leak. Her home insurer covered some of the loss. But Mrs P said her home insurance policy  
had an excess she had needed to pay, and her insurer wasnt covering  all of the repairs  the 
property needed.  So, Mrs P felt British Gas should  reimburse her with these funds, as well 
as pay her some compensation for the trouble and upset she had suffered as a result  of 
British Gas causing this leak. 
British Gas said it didnt  cause the water  leak at Mrs Ps property, or the resultant water 
damage. It said it hadnt touched the area in which the leak had come  from when it attended  
Mrs Ps property  before.  So, it didnt  accept that it should pay anything to Mrs P. But it 
offered Mrs P an amount of £200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for some  problems 
caused by some emails.  
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said when British  Gas 
attended Mrs Ps property in January 2018 the plumber had only checked  the components 
within the toilet cistern to check these were  working, and pressed the flush to check whether 
the toilet was flushing.  And the drainage expert had used rods to unblock the toilet. 
He said the evidence suggested British  Gas wouldnt have needed to go behind  the toilet 
during these visits, so its unlikely it caused  the leak on the flushing cone, and it wouldnt 
have noticed a problem in this area.  
Mrs P didnt agree. She said the toilet had been  fitted in 2013,  so was quite new.  And she 
said there was no other explanation for the damage  other than British Gas having caused 
it. Mrs P said one of the contractors assisting with her home  insurance  claim had said the 
damage was caused by British Gas. And that the British  Gas engineer  had looked  behind 
the boxing when they visited in January 2018.
Because Mrs P didnt  agree  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
Ref: DRN78358552My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Mrs Ps home emergency policy provides her with cover to repair  certain parts of the home,  
such as for plumbing and drainage. So, when  British Gas attended in January 2018 it was 
dealing with the Mrs Ps claim  under the cover she had purchased  with it. But, Mrs P has 
said that whilst British  Gas was attending,  it damaged some plumbing at her home  leading  
to a leak that damaged her property. 
Mrs Ps policy doesnt cover her for damage  caused to her home  by a leak. So, there isnt 
any cover  under her home emergency policy  for this type of loss. But, where Mrs P has said 
British Gas caused damaged in the course  of its work I need to consider whether it is most 
likely it caused this damage, and therefore  should  be reimbursing Mrs P for her loss.
Ive thought carefully about this. And I dont think its most  likely that British  Gas caused the 
damage to the flushing cone  based on the evidence Ive seen. So I dont  require it to pay 
anything to Mrs P.
British Gas said the damaged flushing cone was concealed behind some  units  in the 
bathroom. It noted its engineers didnt enter the concealed unit to complete their work  when 
they visited in January  2018. It said the reported  damage in January 2018 was that the toilet  
wasnt flushing properly.  So, the engineers wouldnt have  had caused  to dismantle the 
toilet. It said instead it tested the flush and fill components inside the toilet,  and tested the 
button which operated the flush valve. And on noting  the damage  was a partial blockage, a 
drainage engineer was called to deal with the blockage.
Ive reviewed the visit notes completed by British Gas when it attended Mrs Ps property in 
January 2018.  And the notes are consistent with the information  British Gas has given about 
the works  carried out. The notes completed by the first engineer  said they checked flush 
was ok and components work fine rang for drainage engineer to rod toilet  as sometimes  fills 
up. The drainage engineer who came  the same  day then made  notes that explained toilet 
filling up when flushed, needs rodding,  called in by plumber. 
Given that both the above  information  and site notes suggest no work was completed behind  
the toilet or near the flushing cone Im persuaded that its unlikely  British  Gas caused the 
damage to it. And I wouldnt  have  expected  it to notice a leak behind the toilet at this time,  if 
it was present, because  it wasnt  carrying out work  behind the concealed units.
Mrs P said that the damage must have been  caused  by British Gas because there was no 
other explanation for the loss  and she felt the timing of the damage  was consistent with 
British Gas causing damage some months  before. But I havent seen any firm evidence  from 
Mrs P to show  British Gas were the cause of this leak.  Mrs P has said her home  insurer 
noted British Gas must have caused  the damage. But I havent seen any information from 
the insurer to show  that this was its findings  or to explain why it considers that to be the 
case. 
Ref: DRN78358553Mrs P provided a photograph of her toilet, showing the plumbing for the toilet  was concealed, 
and noting that because  the toilet is a closed unit it must  have been  damaged  as a result of 
interference. Having looked at the photo I understand the plumbing is closed within some 
units. But, as I dont think its likely British Gas completed work behind  the units, Im satisfied 
this doesnt change the outcome of the complaint. 
British Gas offered  Mrs P an amount of £200 compensation for problems caused by some  
emails. Mrs P has said she is satisfied with the compensation she has received in this 
regard, and doesnt need this to be looked into. So, I havent considered this as part of the 
complaint. And therefore I dont require British  Gas to do anything  more here. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7835855