K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  about the sudden closure of her Barclays account and the unhelpful and 
stressful experiences  she received from the staff at Barclays  Bank.  Miss E wants  Barclays to 
restore her account and to compensate her for the costs  and inconvenience  it has caused.
background
In July 2018 Miss E said her account was blocked and Barclays told her it was under review.  
After a week Barclays told Miss E her account would be closed immediately and that she 
wasnt entitled to an explanation for this. 
Miss E said she found this experience  extremely stressful and Barclays  staff offered her no 
support. She said the lack of access to her money  put her to great inconvenience, and shes 
had to borrow money. She said shes been  made to feel like a criminal and wants Barclays 
to say exactly what shes done and say if it has loaded a fraud marker against her. 
Barclays wrote to Miss E to close her account  with immediate effect and said it was acting 
under the terms  and conditions of the account.  It said she collected  the balance  of her 
account. Barclays said it didnt put a fraud marker against Miss E, but has recorded that it 
wont bank with her in future.
Barclays paid Miss E £150  compensation for the number of calls and branch visits she 
made, and any misinformation provided. Miss E said this wasnt  enough  compensation for 
what shed been  through.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said the regulations  that 
Barclays must follow allow it to review a customers account. This is intended to safeguard 
the bank and its customers. He said banks dont have to give the customer a reason why 
they are doing  this or why they subsequently close an account. 
The investigator said Barclays have  acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
account but he couldnt give a reason  for the account closure. He said Barclays  hadnt 
caused any unreasonable delays.  He said Barclays said theres no fraud markers against 
Miss E that would affect her credit rating or future financial status.  He said Barclays 
payment of compensation to Miss E was a fair offer.
Miss E disagreed with the investigator, saying not all of the issues had been  addressed  and 
there was an appearance  of bias. She requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is limited  in dealing with complaints about  account closures  in that we cant  require 
a bank to re-open a customers account, but we will check to see that it has treated a 
customer fairly. Barclays decided to close Miss Es account and wont  reverse  that decision.
Miss E said Barclays closure letter is very generic and stated a breach of the terms and 
conditions, but with no specific reasons, or explanation as to why she had breached the 
terms and conditions. Unfortunately for Miss E there  is no requirement on a bank to give 
Ref: DRN74353162reasons as to its decision to close an account  and our service cannot compel them to do 
this. 
Ive looked carefully  at Barclays decision  and handling of Miss Es account  to see if it has 
acted within  the terms and conditions of the account. From what Ive seen Barclays has 
reached a decision  to review and close  Miss Es account which it is entitled to do within  the 
terms and conditions of her account. Barclays  is required to keep accounts under review  by 
the regulations  and I have seen that it has acted in accordance with its legal responsibilities.
I havent found that Barclays caused any unnecessary delays and much of the disruption  to 
Miss E is what follows when a bank  account  is closed. I sympathise with Miss E for the 
sudden closure  of her account, but I think Barclays offer of £150 compensation to Miss E is 
fair in the circumstances.
Im pleased that Barclays has confirmed that there  is no fraud marker from the bank against  
Miss Es name.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7435316