K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy U K Insurance Limited UKI  has only paid part of his sons travel insurance 
claim.
background
In July 2018 Mr Rs son went  on a holiday to Asia. He was due to visit several countries, so 
was away until the beginning of September. At the end of August, Mr Rs son became unwell 
 and visited an emergency room. He was treated  in the hospital and prescribed medication. 
At the beginning  of September,  he was in a different country, but still felt unwell, so visited 
another hospital for further  treatment before he returned home.
Mr R put in a claim for his sons treatment abroad. UKI initially declined  the claim in error 
twice  but then went  on to pay for the first hospital visit only. It said that the maximum trip 
length covered  under  Mr Rs policy was 42 days, so as the second visit was outside  of this 
timescale, Mr Rs son wasnt  covered for these costs.
Mr R disagreed with this as he said it wasnt made clear to him about  the maximum trip 
length. He was also unhappy  with the way his claim had been handled. He said hed been 
incorrectly told on a number of occasions  payment was being raised, hadnt received call 
backs and the claim  had been  incorrectly declined  twice,  due to UKI suggesting the claim  
was for another, excluded condition. UKI maintained its stance  in relation to the claim, but 
awarded Mr R £100  in compensation for the service  it provided him. So Mr R brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He agreed with UKI that the second hospital  
visit had occurred outside the 42 days of the trip that were covered. And he said the term 
was clearly presented  to Mr R. I do note in error he said the total trip length was 86 days  
when he meant 57 days   but this doesnt impact  the outcome he reached. Overall, he 
considered £100 fair compensation for the service Mr R had received.
Mr R disagreed with the assessment. He said that he wanted an ombudsman  to review the 
case and answer two queries in particular. These were around his son having treatment the 
second time only to get him home comfortably because he had caught an infection  during 
the insured period. So this medication was part and parcel of the initial  illness.  And he asked 
what was being  proposed  to him as a total sum.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach in situations  like this, where the holiday is longer than the covered 
period, is for the insurer to cover  the individual for the maximum time they had paid for under 
the policy. I think its important to set out that we take this stance to be fair to both parties, as 
the individual has paid for cover, but technically may not be covered under the policy terms. 
Ref: DRN71049722Looking at Mr Rs policy terms, his sons holiday doesnt technically meet the definition  of a 
trip  as it doesnt  begin  and end at home during the period of insurance.  Period of 
insurance is defined  as The period when your travel insurance covers  You and the policy  
sets out that this begins  when you leave home and the policy  covers  trips up to:  42 
days. So strictly applying the terms, it could  be argued that Mr Rs son isnt covered at all. 
However, as Ive said, in situations like this the general stance is cover will still be provided 
up to the maximum number of days set out for the type of policy taken. And reviewing  Mr Rs 
policy terms, I consider all this information  is clearly  set out to him in a prominent way.
I understand the argument Mr R has made  in relation to when his son first became unwell 
and that hes said the second  medication provided was as a result  of this initial illness.  
However as cover had ended, even if this medication was as a result of the same condition,  
it was prescribed and charged at a time when Mr Rs son was no longer covered.  And I can 
see that this second medical visit occurred in a different country to the first visit. Part of the 
amount Mr Rs son paid was for an initial consultation  and tests,  so I cant agree the 
payment was just for follow-on medication to get him home comfortably.
Ultimately Mr Rs sons cover ended  after the 42nd day of his trip. So any costs incurred after 
this, even if related,  are not payable in this case.  I can only look at that situation Mr Rs son 
was in, not hypothetical situations. In relation to Mr Rs son and the cover the policy 
provided, its almost as if his son had come home on the 42nd day, as his covered trip under 
the policy ended. As such any additional costs including medication became Mr Rs sons 
responsibility from day 43 onwards. 
In relation to the compensation offered, I have considered the amount and looked at the 
service Mr R received. Im in agreement that compensation  is due, but consider £100 is the 
region of the amount  I wouldve awarded  had UKI not put anything forward.  So I consider 
this compensation  offer fair.
Mr R has asked how much he would be receiving  from UKI. Based on the claims notes 
available, once UKI worked out the equivalent  cost in pounds, the medical  cost for the first 
visit came  to £131. This then needs  to be reduced  by Mr Rs excess of £50. So with the 
compensation figure, it is my understanding Mr R is being offered a total of £181.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7104972