K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold an agreement with Shawbrook  Bank  Limited when he 
was supplied with new windows.
background 
In September  2017 Mr T was supplied with new windows and entered into a finance  
agreement with Shawbrook. The cost of the windows was £5,650 and the total amount  
payable under the agreement was £12,348.00.
Mr T says that the supplier of the windows told him that he would be able to pay off the loan 
by making double payments over 36 months. Mr T says he was told that he would  be able to 
afford to make  double  payments through a combination of savings he would make by 
switching energy supplier  and a cashback  card.
Mr Ts energy supply wasnt switched as it should  have been.  However,  Mr T made  his own 
arrangements to switch.  The cash back card was provided after some  delay but Mr T says 
that it never  generated the amount of cashback he was told it would.
Mr T says he wouldnt have bought  the windows and entered  into the finance agreement  if 
he hadnt been led to believe that the cashback  card would generate sufficient  to cover the 
loan repayments.  He wants the agreement  cancelled.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He found  that the cashback savings had been 
exaggerated and that Mr T had been  induced into entering the agreement  as result. The 
investigator recommended that the interest should  be removed from the loan.
Mr T didnt  agree. He said that he wouldnt have entered into the loan agreement at all if hed 
been told the truth about the cashback  card and he didnt think  it was fair that he should  
have to continue  making loan repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Shawbrook  as the provider of the 
finance  are responsible for any breach of contract  or misrepresentation on the suppliers 
part.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact which causes the consumer to go ahead  
with the contract.
In this case, Mr T says he was told that he would receive 20% cashback on purchases which 
(based on his estimated use of the card) would generate £150 to £200 per month.  This 
amount was more  than enough to cover  the monthly  loan repayments of £102.90. Mr T says 
he wouldnt  have bought the windows  if he hadnt  been led to believe that the cashback 
would cover the instalments.
I can see that Mr T was very keen to obtain the cashback card. He contacted the supplier  of 
the windows before installation to chase up the cashback card so he could start building 
Ref: DRN77081832credits. There was a delay in the card being  provided to Mr T but he continued  to chase it. In 
his emails to the supplier  and also in his letter of complaint to Shawbrook,  Mr T has made  
reference to the cashback  he expected  to generate based on what hed been told. Theres 
no evidence that this figure was ever challenged or corrected by the supplier. Its clear that 
the cashback card was an important factor in Mr Ts decision  and I think  its reasonable to 
conclude that the cashback offer induced Mr T to enter into the agreement.
Ive taken into account the fact that the information about the cashback card appears  in the 
same section as affordability. This suggests  that a link between cashback and affordability  
was being represented to potential customers. There  are handwritten  figures on the section 
relating to cashback showing how that loan could be paid in 3 years rather  than 10 years  by 
using the cashback to overpay. The figures  are based on cashback of 20%. Looking at this I 
think its more likely  than not that the supplier had a discussion with Mr T and led him to 
believe that the cashback would be 20% and that it would generate enough to cover the loan 
repayments.
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that Mr T was misled  into entering the 
agreement.
In misrepresentation  cases this service looks to put the consumer back  in the position  they 
would have been in had they not entered  into the agreement. In Mr Ts case this would mean  
cancelling the agreement,  refunding the instalments paid by Mr T to date, removing the 
windows and refitting the old windows.  Theres no evidence that there are any issues  with 
the windows themselves and I think its unlikely that Mr T has retained his old windows. So I 
dont think its practical  to require Shawbrook to resolve the complaint in this way.
I appreciate that Mr T wants  the agreement terminated immediately with nothing further to 
pay. However, I dont  think it would  be fair for me to ask Shawbrook to do this because  this 
would amount to putting Mr T in a better position  than he was before  he entered  into the 
agreement because hed still have the new windows but would  only have paid approximately  
18 months worth of instalments (approximately £1852.20) towards the total cost of the 
windows (£5650.00).
So, taking everything  into account I think the fairest way to resolve Mr Ts complaint is for 
Shawbrook to remove all interest from the loan. Shawbrook should deduct  the total amount 
of instalments paid by Mr T to date from the cost of the windows  (£5650.00). The balance 
should be repaid by Mr T by monthly  instalments  of £102.90. Shawbrook should  provide 
Mr T with new documents to confirming this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Shawbrook Bank  Limited should remove  all 
of the interest  from the loan. It should  deduct the total amount of instalments paid to date by 
Mr T from the cost of the windows and allow Mr T to pay the balance by instalments of 
£102.90 until the loan is repaid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Ref: DRN77081833Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7708183