K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Ms B that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-
sold him and Ms B a mortgage payment  protection  insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
The MPPI was sold to Mr J and Ms B during a meeting in 2000  at the same time as they 
applied for two mortgages. (One  was for a loan to help with the purchase of their home. And 
the other was towards home improvements.) Although the mortgage  was held jointly the 
policy only covered  Mr J. The premiums  were paid monthly and were  about £8.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the policy had been  mis-sold.  As Mr J disagreed, the matter 
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in this case.
From the evidence I have  seen, I find that, on balance, Mr J has the greatest entitlement  to 
make this complaint  on behalf of Ms Bs estate.
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr J but Ive decided that I dont find that 
the MPPI  was mis-sold. I explain why below.
Mr J says that he felt pressurised into buying  the policy because Lloyds implied that, if he 
didnt, he and Ms B wouldnt  get the mortgage. I dont doubt that this is how Mr J now 
recollects the way in which  the policy was sold. But it was a very long time ago. And 
understandably he hasnt given us any detail of what Lloyds advisor actually said or did to 
make him think that the mortgage would  be refused  if he didnt take the policy. And in the 
absence of any more  persuasive evidence I dont  think l that I can reasonably rely solely  on 
Mr Js memory  on such a subjective matter and conclude that Lloyds put unreasonable 
pressure on him and Ms B.
I think that Mr J and Ms B knew that the MPPI  was optional  and that they chose to take it. I 
say this because  Ive seen Mr J and Ms Bs signed application for their two mortgages. This 
has a section on it dealing  with insurance.  I can see that the box requesting MPPI has been 
ticked, whereas  the box next to it, declining this insurance, has been left blank. It may be 
that it was Lloyds advisor who completed  the form this way rather than Mr J or Ms B. But Im 
satisfied that, if this was the case, the advisor  would  have filled in the form following a 
discussion with them and in accordance  with their wishes. And I find that more likely  than not 
they would  have had the opportunity to read through and check the application form before 
signing it. 
Ref: DRN74582782My above  finding  is reinforced because Ive also seen Mr J and Ms Bs mortgage  offers  
neither of which contains a condition requiring MPPI to be taken out. Mr J also had to sign a 
separate application form for the policy which Im satisfied showed that it was a separate 
product from the mortgages.
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr J and Ms B so it needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know  what  steps Lloyds took but in any 
event I find that it was suitable for them. I say this because:
Mr J was eligible for the policy;
Mr J wasnt  caught by any of the policys main  restrictions  and limitations   such as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr J has told us that he had no sick pay, other insurance or savings to help pay the 
monthly mortgage repayments had he not been  working. But, following a successful 
claim the MPPI would have paid out over £100 a month had he been  off work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. And these payments  would have been made for up 
to 12 months. So Im satisfied that the policy could  have been of use to Mr J and Ms B;
Mr Js salary was much higher  than Ms Bs, so I find that it was reasonable for the MPPI  
to be in his sole name;
The policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar policies available  in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the premiums were unaffordable.  In any event,  if Mr J and Ms B had later 
felt that they couldnt  afford  the MPPI or not longer  wanted it, because it was paid for 
monthly they could  have cancelled it at any time without  further  cost.
It is likely  that Lloyds  didnt give Mr J and Ms B all the information about the insurance that it 
ought to have so that they could  make an informed decision whether they wanted to take it 
or not. But from what Ive concluded above,  I dont think  that clearer  information would have 
changed their minds and stopped them buying it. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr J.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr J because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Mr J and Ms B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr J and Ms B, that was unfair;
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr J.
Ref: DRN74582783But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr J and the estate of Ms B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  I understand  it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7458278