K820x#14complaint
Mrs U says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs U bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs U disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Us case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Us complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mrs U aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Us signed store  card application. On this 
form there was a section  for PPI. In this section there was an option to tick if PPI was 
required. This option has been ticked and Mrs U has signed the overall application. So 
I think this indicates  what she wanted.
Ive considered what Mrs U has said about  not being  aware that she had PPI. But the 
PPI premiums would  have appeared on Mrs Us store card statements  when  she had 
an outstanding  balance. I think that its more  likely  than not that Mrs U would have 
questioned the PPI with the business   much sooner  than she did, if she hadnt been 
aware of the PPI. But the evidence is that it remained  on her account  for some time 
after it was taken out. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs U so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs U about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs U doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances, 
including her existing  means  for making  her repayments, it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to her. So I dont think better information  wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Us comments,  including what shes said about  a different PPI 
policy she had. But our Service  considers each complaint  on its own merits and Ive not seen 
Ref: DRN75179752anything to persuade me that this complaint should be upheld. Im also sorry to hear of the 
change to Mrs Us financial circumstances, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Us complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7517975