K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Mr and Mrs B say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest  Bank)  mis-sold 
them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs B complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be 
rejected. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be 
looked at again. They said the PPI had been added fraudulently to their mortgage account 
because they did not know they had it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 I think NatWest  Bank made  it clear in the mortgage application and the separate PPI 
application form that Mr and Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why they may not remember  this.
 NatWest  Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
 Its possible the information NatWest Bank gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
- so it would  have been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put 
them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B has said - including what  they have said about 
the PPI being  added fraudulently to their mortgage  account. But this point doesnt  change 
my decision  as I could see no evidence of fraud on the face of the documents.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest Bank treated  them unfairly.  
NatWest Bank has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest Bank has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think NatWest Bank treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN73899392my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7389939