K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs Q says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
In December 2018 I issued my provisional  findings  on Mrs Qs complaint and invited both 
parties to comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think  about.  
My provisional findings were that I wasnt intending  to uphold Mrs Qs complaint. I set out my 
reasons in the provisional decision as follows:
Halifax showed us a copy of the credit card application signed by Mrs Q in 2002. I can see 
the application form contains a box that needed to be crossed to add PPI to the account.  I 
note the box has been marked with a cross.  There was another  type of insurance also 
available but the box for that product has been left blank. The cross has been printed on the 
form. But the credit card was opened during a meeting at a branch. I think its most likely a 
discussion took place  and the PPI was selected  during  that discussion, then the form printed 
for Mrs Q to check  and sign. The PPI premiums wouldve  appeared on Mrs Qs statements,  
if she hadnt chosen PPI or didnt want it Id expect  her to have questioned it at an early 
stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that she did so. Overall  I think  Halifax made it clear 
that Mrs Q didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember this after so many  years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs Q so it had to check that the PPI was right for her and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
It doesnt look like Mrs Q was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs Q about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Q has said. Mrs Q would likely have received some sick 
pay from her employer  if she became  too unwell to work. But the PPI policy sold to her could 
have paid a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months,  probably longer than Mrs Qs full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. And its also pay out for up to 12 months if Mrs Q lost her job. Whilst Ive no 
doubt Mrs Qs family wouldve wanted  to help her if things went wrong it could be they were  
not in a position to do so when she needed help most.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs Q paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mrs Q back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If it hasnt  done  so already Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Mrs Q when Ive issued  
my final decision. 
Ref: DRN79950292my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Neither Mrs Q nor Halifax have replied with any new evidence  or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
December 2018.
my final decision
My Final  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7995029