K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains about Nationwide Building  Societys response  to her claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  for a refund of shipment  charges.
background
In 2017 Miss D moved overseas,  and had her furniture shipped  to her new country for about 
£2,920. Due to changing circumstances, she moved  back to the UK, and had her furniture 
shipped back for £2,970,  which she paid for with a Nationwide credit card. The delivery was 
delayed by 22 days after it arrived in the UK, during  which time she was not kept informed 
about what was happening. When it finally arrived, her furniture was extensively damaged.  
The shipping companys insurance  company paid her £2,606.77 for the damage, which she 
accepted in full and final settlement of her claim. She then brought  a claim against 
Nationwide under section 75. She asked  for a refund  of both shipping charges, because the 
furniture had been sent straight back to the UK without being offloaded, and so it was not 
possible to determine  whether the damage  had occurred  during the first or second  shipment.
At first Nationwide declined her claim,  on the ground that she had already accepted 
compensation in full and final settlement of her claim. But Nationwide later paid her £363.23,  
being the difference between what she had already been paid and the second shipping 
charge. Nationwide also paid her another £150 for not having upheld  her claim in the first 
place. But it did not agree to refund the first shipping charge, since  there  was no evidence  
that any damage had been caused during the first shipment, and the first shipment had not 
been paid for with a Nationwide credit card.
Miss D brought  this complaint  to our Service. One of our adjudicators upheld her complaint 
on the ground that the compensation already paid was only for the damage, but the delay 
was a separate breach  of contract which had not been compensated. He recommended  that 
Nationwide pay her £2,970, the entire  cost of the second shipment. He did not recommend a 
refund of the first shipment, because there had been  no breach of contract on that occasion.
Nationwide objected to that opinion, because it would  be putting Miss D in a better position 
than she would have  been in if there had been  no problems. The adjudicator  having  left our 
Service, this case was passed to one of our investigators,  who agreed with Nationwide. He 
recommended compensation of £650, in addition to the compensation already paid.
Nationwide accepted that opinion, but Miss D did not. She said that as the furniture had 
been delivered damaged, she should get a full refund  of all the shipping costs, because  she 
might as well not have bothered shipping the furniture at all. She said that the compensation 
she had received did not cover the full cost of the damaged furniture. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review  her case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes Nationwide jointly and severally  liable for a breach of contract by a 
merchant which provided goods or services which were paid for with a Nationwide credit 
card. Miss D didnt  pay for the first shipment with a Nationwide credit card, and she cannot 
prove any breach  of contract in connection  with that shipment, so those are two very good 
Ref: DRN71782832reasons why Nationwide did not have to pay her any compensation for that first shipment.  
That part of her claim had absolutely no prospect of success.
I dont think Nationwide  was obliged to pay Miss D any compensation for the damaged  
items, because  as Miss D herself says  it is not possible  to determine which shipment 
resulted in the damage, and Nationwide is only liable for the second  shipment. It is just as 
likely that the damage was caused  during the first shipment as during the second.  So I cant 
fairly hold Nationwide liable for that issue under section 75.
I agree  with my colleagues that Nationwide  is liable for the delay, which  was so bad that it 
did amount to a breach of contract. But I dont think that a refund of the entire cost of the 
shipment would be proportionate.  I know that Miss D says she might as well not have 
bothered with the shipments at all. But there  are three reasons why the cost should  not be 
refunded in full. Firstly, as Ive already  said, Nationwide isnt liable for the damage.  Secondly, 
the goods were  delivered in the end (albeit  damaged, but that is a separate  issue  and I am 
only considering  lateness here). So a full refund  for late delivery  instead of total non-
delivery  would not be reasonable. Thirdly, to refund the entire  cost of the second shipment, 
in addition to the refund already paid by the insurance company, would be putting Miss D in 
a better  position than she would have been in if the damage had not occurred, because it 
would mean  she would have had her furniture returned to the UK for free.
Miss D disagrees, for the following reasons. Firstly, she says the furniture was worth £6,000, 
so she did not get back  the true cost of replacing  it. But she has not provided Nationwide  or 
this Service with any evidence to show how much it was worth, so I cant fairly conclude that 
it was worth more than the insurance company paid for it. Even if I had evidence that he 
furniture was worth more than that, I still dont think that the compensation for a delayed 
delivery has to match  the cost of replacing damaged goods,  if Nationwide isnt liable for the 
damage. The damage and the delay are distinct matters. Secondly,  Miss D says that if 
hadnt shipped  the furniture anywhere  and had just left it in the UK for the whole time, she 
would still have the original, undamaged furniture, without having  spent  nearly £6,000 on 
moving it back and forth.  But Im afraid that cannot  be helped.  Nationwide  isnt liable for the 
first shipment, or for the fact that, having  moved abroad,  Miss D had to move back  again.  So 
the true comparison is not what position  would Miss D be in if nothing  had happened at all? 
but what  position  would she be in if the second  shipment had been delivered in a timely 
manner?
I think that three weeks without furniture  because of late delivery, during which time very little 
information was forthcoming, and for which no good  excuse has been offered, justifies a 
greater award than £650 compensation.  Three weeks  is a long time to be without furniture, 
and without knowing when it will arrive, and that must have been very stressful.  So I think  
£1,000 is fair, but I dont think it would be fair of me to order Nationwide to pay this in 
addition to the £363.23 it has already paid for damage,  since  Nationwide  isnt liable for the 
damage. Instead, I think that payment should  count  towards the £1,000.  But the £1,000 will 
be in addition to the £150 Nationwide paid for not upholding her claim in the first place. (This 
adds up to almost the same award as the investigator proposed.)
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Nationwide  Building  Society  to pay Miss D 
£636.77, in addition to the £513.23  it has paid her already.
Ref: DRN71782833Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7178283