K820x#14Complaint
Miss K complains  that the car she acquired  through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance BPF) wasnt fit 
for purpose.  She says although the rejection  of the car has been accepted she is being  
charged a usage  fee which she feels unfair  given the circumstances of her case.
Background
Miss K entered into a loan agreement with BPF in May 2018 to acquire a used car. She says 
that the car wasnt  fit for purpose and was in and out of the garage from the time she 
acquired it. She says BPF offered to unwind her agreement  but said she wouldnt be 
refunded all of her payments as she would be charged for the use she had of the car. Miss K 
says this isnt fair given  she has had to take the car to the garage on so many  occasions. 
She says that if her complaint had been  taken  seriously at the start she wouldnt have 
needed to continue to use the car.
Miss K says BPF offered her £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had 
been caused but that this wasnt enough.  She says she has young children which  she needs 
to drive around and that the car was burning oil and she felt unsafe driving it. 
BPF says that Miss K contacted it in September 2018 to say there  was an issue  with the car 
and that the dealer wouldnt pay for a diagnostic report. A claim was raised under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (s. 75) and BPF agreed to cover  the costs  of the diagnostic 
report. This report concluded that the engine would need to be stripped down and rebuilt to 
rectify the issue along with other  repairs being  needed. BPF says it sent this information to 
the dealer and Miss K informed it that her warranty wouldnt cover  the repair costs. BPF says 
that it appeared as though  a repair was carried out.
In February 2019,  Miss K contacted BPF to say the oil light had come on. It says it was told 
repairs would cost £600 and it offered to contribute £300. The car remained with the dealer 
as Miss K raised a further issue.  The car remained with the dealer and further  work was 
carried out. The car was returned to Miss K in April 2019 but a light came  back  on. At this 
point BPF says it told the dealer it would be looking for rejection and the dealer agreed with 
this but noted  Miss K had driven 10,000 miles in the car. 
In May 2019, BPF says a claim  outcome  letter  was issued  which  said the dealer would take 
back the car and repay the finance agreement but that a usage  fee would be applied. A 
refund of three  monthly  rentals would be made along with a payment of £50 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  Miss K then told BPF she didnt want  to reject the 
car but instead  wanted it repaired.  She also asked about her personal  number plate  and said 
she wanted all her payments refunded. 
BPF says that the refunds applied (including an additional refund in July 2019 as a gesture 
of goodwill) were reasonable. It says that attempting further repair  wasnt worthwhile as 
previous attempts had been unsuccessful. It says it is reasonable that a usage charge  is 
applied given the use of the car made by Miss K and that she was provided  with a courtesy 
car. It says the compensation paid is reasonable as it kept in touch  with Miss K throughout 
the complaint  and it wasnt responsible  for any delays.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that BPF followed the correct process 
in response to Miss Ks s. 75 claim. She thought it reasonable that a charge was applied  to 
Ref: DRN77372552reflect the use Miss K had of the car as well as the use of a courtesy car while  her car was 
unavailable. She noted that Miss K would prefer to have the car repaired but said that as 
repairs had been  previously attempted BPF didnt consider this cost effective. She said it 
was BPFs choice and that rejection had been  offered.
In regard to compensation, our investigator said that as she hadnt  found any issues with 
how the s. 75 claim had been investigated  she wasnt able to recommend that any further 
compensation be paid.
Miss K didnt accept  our investigators  view.  She said the car was mis-sold and she spent a 
year trying to resolve the issues. She said that the mis-sale should have been considered 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015  as the car was not fit for purpose at the point  of supply. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to acquire a used car. Under the 
regulations, BPF can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. In this case  a s.75 claim was raised.  Miss K has also noted  the Consumer Rights Act 
2015. This regulation is relevant when considering whether a car is of satisfactory  quality. I 
have taken all of this into account in my decision.
Miss K has provided information regrading the issues with the car. I can see that BPF 
covered the costs of a diagnostics report in November 2018 which I find reasonable given 
the nature  of the issues and when  these had occurred. Repairs were attempted  over an 
extended period  but these didnt resolve the issues. Given the information provided I find 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and as repairs didnt resolve 
the issues I find that under the regulations, rejection is a reasonable remedy.
I note Miss Ks comments  about  having the car repaired rather  than rejecting it. However 
given the repair attempts that have  already  occurred  and the comments  in regard to the 
issues, I find it reasonable that BPF consider rejection as the fair resolution  at this time.
BPF set out its offer to Miss K in May 2019. This included  the return  of the car it also offered 
to refund three  monthly  payments and pay £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she had been caused. It also explained  why all of Miss Ks payments  wouldnt  
be refunded.
When it is agreed that a car can be rejected we would usually expect the consumer to be 
refunded any deposit  amount paid. In this case there was no deposit payment. We would 
also consider the usage the customer had of the car. In this case  Miss K had to return the 
car on a number of occasions and she was without the car for extended periods of time. 
However she was provided with a courtesy  car and she also had some  use of her car. The 
inspection report carried out in November 2018,  recorded a mileage of over 57,000. At the 
time of acquisition the car had a mileage of around  50,500. Therefore Miss K had 
reasonable use of the car while it was in her possession. Given  this I do not find that it is 
reasonable to expect  all of Miss Ks payments  to be refunded. BPF refunded three monthly  
payments which  I find reasonable. 
Ref: DRN77372553I understand that Miss K stopped her direct debit payments in May 2019.  However  she then 
says further payments were taken. I have looked  at the account statement provided and can 
see a payment taken  in June 2019.  A refund for the same amount was then made in July 
2019 as a gesture of goodwill. I am not aware of any other payments made  by Miss K.
Overall, I find that the actions taken by BPF in regard to accepting  the rejection of the car 
and refunding certain payments was reasonable. I also understand that BPF has said that 
once the agreement has been unwound  they will amend Miss Ks credit  file which  I also find 
reasonable.
BPF paid Miss K £50 compensation. Miss K doesnt think  this is enough given the distress  
and inconvenience  she has been  caused. However,  I find that this is reasonable. I say this 
because BPF initially  offered to cover the cost of the diagnostics report. Repairs were then 
carried out but when BPF was made aware that these werent successful it accepted 
Miss Ks claim and offered the return of the car and associated redress.  I do not find that 
BPF has caused any unnecessary delays through this process  and I do not find that I can 
say further compensation is required.
Overall, while  can understand why Miss K is upset given the issues  with the car I find that 
rejection is reasonable remedy and that the refunds made to date are fair. If Miss K wishes 
to accept the rejection should  now provide the required  document  for this to take place and 
also work with the dealer to ensure the retention of her number plate if desired.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7737255