K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the suitability  of the advice they were  given by Zurich 
Assurance Ltd (Zurich) to take out endowment policies, which they say were then used as 
repayment vehicles  for residential and commercial loans. Theyve  also complained about the 
suitability of the advice they were given to transfer the benefits from Mr Ms deferred  
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a personal pension  and then to use that plan as a 
repayment vehicle  for the commercial loan  after they stopped the endowment policies. 
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs M met with Eagle Star (now Zurich) to talk about remortgaging  their 
property to raise further capital. As a result  they took out a 20 year low cost endowment 
policy with a death benefit of £112,500  to cover the remortgage. 
At the same time Mr M agreed to discuss the options around his deferred Teachers Pension 
Scheme benefits.  As a result he agreed to transfer the benefits into a personal pension plan. 
Early the following year Mr and Mrs M took out another endowment policy  which was 
understood to be in conjunction with a commercial  loan. Some  years later Mr and Mrs M 
stopped the premiums on the endowment policies  Zurich says that the pension plan was 
then used as a repayment vehicle  for the commercial loan.  
Zurich says it sent Mr M two letters in January  1999,  inviting  him to have a review  of the 
advice to transfer his pension.  But it said it didnt  receive any response.
In October  2002, after Mr and Mrs M had stopped  paying premiums into the endowment 
polices, Zurich wrote to them explaining that an outstanding debt on one of the policies 
meant that there  was no surrender value payable.
In 2003 Mr and Mrs M wrote to Zurich  complaining  that they hadnt been made aware that 
the other policy could  be made paid up. Zurich offered to make  the policy paid up from 
March 2003. But it said it wasnt able to reinstate the policy as requested. In 2012 the policy 
matured with a value of £1,193.07.
In February 2018  Mr M was taking financial advice prior to his retirement and he and Mrs M 
decided to complain  again to Zurich.  They said theyd  complained  before about  the sale of 
the endowment  policies,  but became frustrated by the process. 
They now wanted  to re-open that complaint.  They also wanted to raise  the issue  of the 
suitability of the advice Mr M had been  given to transfer his OPS benefits into a personal  
pension and subsequently for it to be used as a repayment vehicle for an interest only 
business loan.  They said they wanted compensation for the losses theyd incurred.
Zurich said that  as Mr and Mrs M had previously raised the complaint about the 
endowment policies, for which  Zurich had already issued a final response,  it believed that 
part of the complaint didnt need to be looked at again  and that it was effectively time-
barred. It also said that, as it had invited Mr M to undertake a review of the sale of his 
personal pension  in 1999  to which he hadnt  responded  that aspect of the complaint was 
also out of time.  
With regard to the pension being  used as a repayment vehicle  for the commercial  loan 
Zurich said that due to the passage of time it had very little information to support that 
Ref: DRN78946092suggestion. But it said that as the loan was repaid in 2001,  and it had sent Mr and Mrs M 
annual pension statements noting the plans value,  it felt that Mr and Mrs M ought to have 
been aware of having cause for concern  about that some years before  so Zurich  said that 
element of the complaint  had also been brought out of time.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with that outcome and brought their complaint to us, where 
one of our adjudicators looked into the matter. She reached the following conclusions 
regarding the various complaint points:
Mr and Mrs M had received mortgage review letters in 2000 and 2001  which  ought 
to have made them concerned about  the advice to take out the endowment  policies. 
She said they ought to have complained within three years  of receiving the letters  in 
order for their complaint to have been  made  in time.
Zurich showed  it had sent Mr M two letters, as required by the regulator, inviting him 
to review the advice  to transfer  his pension.  The adjudicator  said Mr M should  have  
requested a review,  following receipt of the letters, which  would have made him 
aware if hed suffered  any loss or not. He would then have had three years following 
that review to bring any complaint he may have had about its outcome.  But as he 
didnt do that this part of the complaint had been  raised too late as well.
The adjudicator  didnt think the other part of the complaint  about using the pension 
as a vehicle to repay the commercial loan  was out of time. She didnt think  there 
was sufficient evidence  to show that Zurich  had advised Mr and Mrs M to do that. 
However, she said that even if there had been evidence  of this, she didnt think  the 
advice would have  been unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. In response  they said:
The mortgage had been set up on a repayment basis   therefore there was never 
any need to have an endowment policy to pay it off.
The commercial loan was taken out with Mr Ms pension to be used as security. They  
believed a separate life insurance policy would have sufficed to pay off the loan in the 
event of death  without  the need for another endowment policy.
They believed the policies were sold to generate commission  for the adviser in 
question.
The advice to transfer Mr Ms OPS benefits  wasnt suitable advice. 
Mr M hadnt  received  the pension review letters from Zurich in 1999. He also hadnt 
been aware that the advice was unsuitable  until he recently  spoke with a financial 
adviser. 
As no resolution could  be found the case has been  passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment  and for largely  the same reasons.
I know this outcome will disappoint Mr and Mrs M and I have some  sympathy  for their 
position regarding  what they feel to have  been unsuitable advice. But I dont think we can 
consider their complaint and Ill explain why.
Whether we can consider  the suitability of the advice to take out endowment policies
Ref: DRN78946093Due to the passage of time there  is limited  information available regarding  the sale of the two 
endowment policies. Although its clear that the first one was sold to cover a remortgage 
Mr and Mrs M wanted to take out to raise  further  capital. And its also clear both 
endowments were stopped some years  later when Mr and Mrs M encountered  some 
financial problems. 
Mr and M complained to Zurich in early 2003  about being misinformed about losing money 
you had invested  in this policy. Ive carefully considered  this letter  and I can see the 
complaint is about  one of the endowment policies not having any surrender value at that 
time, because of an outstanding loan against it. A further complaint was then made about 
Mr and Mrs M not being made aware  of an option  to make the other policy  paid up. 
Zurich says it answered those complaints and gave  Mr and Mrs M referral rights to bring  
their complaint to this service if they werent satisfied, which  they needed to do within  
six months. So Zurich says as the complaints been brought  more than six months after it 
issued its final response its outside of the time limits allowed. 
The regulators handbook  explains what complaints we can and cant  consider according to 
our dispute  resolution  (DISP) rules.  DISP 2.8 explains the general time limits that apply and 
specifically DISP 2.8.2  says:
 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1)more than six months after the date on which the respondent  sent the complainant its final 
response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or3
(2) more than: 
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP  2.8.2  R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R210 was as a result of exceptional circumstances;
But looking  at the complaint Mr and Mrs M brought in 2018 they said they wanted the sale of 
the endowments  looked at again because they believed the advice  they received was for the 
benefit of an adviser  to make the most commission.
 
Ive carefully considered  this new complaint and I think Mr and Mrs M have now raised an 
issue of suitability which wasnt raised  in 2003, so I dont think the complaint 
Mr and Mrs M have  now brought is outside of the time limits that apply to the six month 
ruling.  
However, the endowments were sold in 1992  and 1993 which  was more than six years ago. 
So I have  to consider the second part of the DISP rule about events which took place more 
than six years ago and more than three  years after Mr and Mrs M ought reasonably to have 
become aware  of a cause to complain   in this case  that the endowment  policies may have 
been unsuitable for them. 
Ref: DRN78946094Ive looked carefully  at the mortgage  endowment review letters that were sent to 
Mr and Mrs M in 2000 and 2001.  The letters noted that we have assessed the progress 
your plan is making towards  reaching its target amount, which  may be required, for example, 
to repay  the mortgage loan on your home when it falls due.  Both letters went on to confirm 
that Mr and Mrs Ms policies had a high risk of not achieving their objectives  and the monthly 
premiums needed  to be increased substantially. The actions that could be taken were listed  
and a form was enclosed for Mr and Mrs M to confirm if they wanted to accept the premium 
increase.
I think these letters put Mr and Mrs M on notice that the endowment policies werent doing 
what they were set up to do. And I think  they should have alerted Mr and Mrs M to the fact 
that there  was a potential problem with the plans in terms of their suitability  for them  in the 
first place. There was a mechanism in place for them to respond to Zurich  through  the 
acceptance form  and I would have expected them to raise  concerns about the premium 
increase and also the original suitability of the policies at that point. Had they done  so Zurich 
would then have  addressed the complaint and  if Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with the 
outcome they could  have brought the complaint to the dispute resolution service  of the day. 
I think Mr and Mrs M ought  reasonably  to have had awareness of cause for concern about 
the suitability of the endowment policies  as a vehicle to repay  their mortgage  from the 
date of the 2001 letter at the latest.  Theres no suggestion that they didnt receive the letters 
and I can see they were sent to the same  address that Mr and Mrs M still live at today. So I 
think they ought to have  made their complaint within three years of that date  in 2004. As 
they didnt complain about the suitability of the plans until 2018 I think  theyve brought  that 
part of their complaint  outside of the time limits  allowed and therefore were unable  to 
consider it. 
Whether we can consider  the suitability of the advice to transfer  Mr Ms OPS benefits to a 
personal pension.
Ive seen that, at the same meeting where the remortgage was discussed in 1992, Zurich  
also recommended  that Mr M transfer his Teachers Pension Scheme  benefits  into a 
personal pension.  Subsequently, in October 1994,  the regulator established an industry-wide 
review, including  such OPS transfers,  of sales between  April 1988 and June 1994. This 
review required firms to invite customers to have  the suitability of the transfer advice 
reviewed  in accordance  with the regulators guidance.
Mr Ms pension  transfer fell within these dates, so Zurich was required to send him a pension  
review letter  asking him to complete an enclosed questionnaire  if he wanted his personal 
pension arrangement reviewed.
  
Zurich has provided  evidence to show it sent two letters to Mr M on 4 and 28 January 1999, 
inviting him to ask for a pension  review.  Zurich says its only ever held one address  for Mr M, 
which is the same address that all the other letters were sent to  including his pension  
statements and endowment letters. Zurich says that as the events occurred  more  than six 
years ago, and that Mr M complained more than three years after he ought reasonably to 
have had awareness of cause  for concern, his complaint has been  brought  too late. 
Mr M says he never received either  of the two letters. But, based  on the evidence Ive seen, 
Im satisfied the letters were sent to the correct address and its more  likely than not that at 
least one of the mailings  if not both  would have been received.
Ref: DRN78946095The letters were generic in nature, as specified  by the regulator. They were headed your 
pension: were you badly  advised? This is important-please read it carefully. It is not a 
circular. Our Regulator has asked all firms it regulates to offer investors like you the chance 
to have your case checked.  This check will see if you were correctly  advised to make  this 
transfer. If you were badly advised,  and have lost out as a result, you may be entitled to 
compensation.
So I think the letter was clear in what it offered and would have made  it clear  that a review 
was available  to anyone who may have  wanted  to check  whether a transfer  had been  in their 
best interest.  The letter itself wouldnt have necessarily given Mr M a cause to complain 
about the advice, but the clarity of the letter ought  to have confirmed the importance  of him 
replying which would  then have led Zurich to carry out the review. Depending on the 
outcome of the review Mr M would either have received compensation for any loss hed 
suffered, been told that although  the advice was unsuitable no loss had occurred, or been 
advised that the advice  was, in Zurichs view, suitable. But in any scenario he would then 
have been able to disagree  with the outcome and make a complaint.
In this case, had Zurich  received a response, I think its likely it would have carried  out a 
review by the beginning of 2000  which allowed Zurich 12 months to complete the work 
involved. So if Mr M had responded to the invitation  letters, I think  thats  when he ought 
reasonably to have  had awareness of cause  to complain (about  the outcome of the review).  
Taking into account the DISP rule above this means he would have had three years to bring 
his complaint to Zurich   so by 2003  at the latest.  Mr M didnt bring  his complaint until 2018,  
which is more than three years after I believe he ought reasonably to have had awareness of 
cause to complain.  
As that part of the complaint fails on both aspects of DISP 2.8.2 (2), it therefore isnt 
something I can consider.
I can consider these two aspects of the complaint if I believe there to have been exceptional 
circumstances as to why they couldnt have been brought within  the time allowed. 
Mr M has said they were going to take the complaint further  in 2003 but other  important 
family issues took over and we ended up being extremely frustrated. In order to deem the 
circumstances to be exceptional, Id need to be satisfied that they were  effectively prevented  
by those circumstances from bringing  their complaint throughout the three years  following 
awareness of having cause  for complaint  and indeed then for the many  years up to the 
point of raising the complaints with the business. 
But whilst I have some  sympathy  for the frustration Mr and Mrs M suffered and their other  
important family considerations, Im not persuaded that the reasons given would have 
prevented them from raising the complaints within the prescribed time limits.
The advice to use the pension as a repayment  vehicle for the commercial  loan
Mr M has complained that his pension was used as a repayment vehicle for a commercial 
loan he took out. He and Mrs M have said this wasnt appropriate and they also suggested 
the loan was taken out on a repayment basis.
Ive not seen documentary evidence to show the loan was on a repayment basis, and indeed  
in Mr and Mrs Ms initial complaint they said the loans theyd taken out were  interest  only 
loans. Zurichs fact find from the time has also noted the loans were on an interest only 
basis. 
Ref: DRN78946096So I think its more likely  than not, based  on what I have seen, that the loans were set up as 
interest only loans and therefore  needed some form of repayment vehicle to be in place.
First of all, Ive considered  whether we can look at this part of the complaint as Ive already 
said we cant look at the suitability of the advice to transfer the OPS benefits into a personal 
pension. But I dont  think any advice to use the pension plan against the commercial loan 
would have been considered as part of the pension review remit. So, my view is that this 
complaint has been made within the time limits and is one I can consider. But I dont think it 
should succeed  and Ill explain why.
As Ive previously said there is limited evidence available to confirm  what  happened with the 
commercial loan. The loan itself was paid off in 2001. But I have taken into account that 
Zurichs final response letter said Mr Ms pension plan was assigned to your Eagle Star 
commercial mortgage in 1995,  sometime  after this mortgage started but we are not sure 
why. We believe this may have been due to the issues  you were having  making  payments  to 
your endowment plan but we cannot be sure of this... It does however appear therefore 
that Mr Ms pension played some  part in supporting your commercial mortgage.  
So I think theres some reason to consider that the pension may have  at some  point  
been used for the purpose  of a loan repayment vehicle. But that in itself doesnt mean that if 
any advice was given  it was unsuitable. 
It would appear at that time Mr and Mrs M had some financial difficulties  and it wouldnt 
seem unreasonable for them to use Mr Ms pension against the loan to alleviate that 
problem. And the available evidence  doesnt  support the position  that the pension transfer 
was originally advised to enable the resulting personal pension  to be used to repay the loan. 
So any advice that may have  been given was subsequent  advice in response to a specific  
financial problem. And I need to bear in mind  that borrowing  had been  taken  out against one 
of the endowment policies, so its unlikely it could have continued  to be used as a mortgage 
repayment vehicle.  
I think the idea of using the pension to potentially repay the commercial loan was, in all 
probability, a short  term fix for a particular problem. And if the pension hadnt  provided 
sufficient capital to repay  the loan, its possible that the business could be sold to repay  it 
instead. It also appears the loan was repaid around  six years  after the pension was assigned 
to the mortgage.  
Bearing in mind all these circumstances, I dont think  it would be fair to say any advice which 
may have  been  given   was unsuitable or unreasonable at the time. So for the reasons Ive 
given, Im not upholding this part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I cant consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaints about  the 
endowment policies or the advice to transfer  Mr Ms OPS benefits, as theyve been brought  
outside of the time limits  allowed.
And regarding  the question  of using the pension  as a loan repayment  vehicle,  I dont uphold  
this aspect of the complaint.  
Ref: DRN78946097Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7894609