K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC dealt with a claim they 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section 75), in particular the 
delays in the claim being agreed and settled.
background
Mr and Mrs P hold credit cards with Tesco.  In February 2018 they requested  Tesco refund 
£2,600 under section 75. This was in relation to payments theyd made  in 2014 for goods 
that they said were  now not fit for purpose. They felt that the retailer was in breach of 
contract and so, under section 75, wanted Tesco to accept responsibility for this.
Tesco initially rejected  the claim in March  2018. As a result  Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint 
with Tesco. It responded to the complaint on 3 May 2018. As part of its response  it 
overturned its original  decision  about  the section  75 claim  and agreed to provide a full refund 
of the £2,600 claimed. It also offered £100  for the inconvenience  caused.
Mr and Mrs P accepted the refund  in respect of the claim. But they felt that the £100 offered  
for the distress was insufficient. After  Tesco  declined to increase its offer they contacted our 
service and asked us to look into this. In particular they were  unhappy  with how Tesco went 
about looking into their claim and its processes and practices in respect of this and how it 
handles complaints.
An adjudicator looked into the complaint  but he considered that the £100 offered by Tesco  
was fair in respect  of the trouble and upset caused. Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They  said the 
adjudicator hadnt fully considered the impact of the delay in agreeing the claim nor the 
difficulty in dealing with Tesco  based  on its procedures. As a result the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive mentioned  Mr and Mrs P said in their letter to Tesco, after it issued its final response, 
they accepted the offer of £2,600 in respect  of their section 75 claim. And theyve confirmed  
that their complaint  is about how their claim was handled. With that in mind  Im not looking 
into the claim itself as part of my review. Instead  I have focused on how this was handled 
and whether the offer of £100 for the trouble caused by Tescos  handling of the claim is fair.
I can see Mr and Mrs P are unhappy  with a number of aspects of their interactions with 
Tesco. Amongst other things theyve mentioned some departments  being  willing  to 
correspond by email  when others are not, how it goes about investigating a section  75 claim 
and gathering information, and how it chooses  to acknowledge correspondence.
Businesses are entitled to use their commercial discretion  when deciding  how to run their 
day to day operations and what processes, procedures and systems they use. The 
ombudsman service is not a regulator. It isnt really for us to comment on how businesses  
generally operate. And we cant require  a business to change  its processes or procedures. 
Our role is to look at the circumstances of individual complaints, decide  if we think  something  
has gone wrong and if so what  we think a fair and reasonable way of putting  that right is. 
Ref: DRN70768852Mr and Mrs P said when  submitting their claim to Tesco that it was a straightforward  and 
simple claim. And I dont doubt  that in their opinion  it was. But I still think Tesco  was entitled 
to investigate the claim and form its own view.  Section 75 says that borrowers under a credit 
agreement, in some circumstances, have an equal right to claim against the credit provider if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier of the goods or 
services purchased. But the credit provider is still entitled to investigate to establish if it 
thinks a claim  should  be paid. Tesco was informed of the claim on 8 February 2018 and 
gave its initial response on 18 March 2018.  And I dont think this was an unreasonable 
amount of time for it to investigate and consider the request.  
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy with the initial decision to decline  the claim so they complained 
to Tesco. As part of its review of the complaint, Tesco also looked at the claim itself again.  
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority, requires a business to respond  to complaints 
within a set timeframe  usually within eight weeks of being made aware of the complaint. 
And it appears Tesco did so, as it sent Mr and Mrs P its response on 3 May 2018. While I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs P wouldve preferred this to have been dealt with sooner, again  I 
think its reasonable that Tesco would  need to investigate the complaint.  
So while it has taken longer than Mr and Mrs P wouldve liked, I dont think  Tesco  was wrong  
to review the outcome of the claim before giving its answer to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint or 
that it has unreasonably  delayed  things  in doing  so.
When it investigated the complaint, Tesco came to the conclusion  that its original response 
to the claim was incorrect. And it acknowledged that errors had been made in assessing all 
of the information.  Its unfortunate  that this has happened.  And had this not happened it 
seems the claim couldve been  settled  earlier.  But as Ive already mentioned, I think  Tesco 
was reasonably entitled to take time to consider things.
Tesco has acknowledged that it made  a mistake. I dont  doubt this was distressing for Mr 
and Mrs P and I think its right that it pay them some compensation  for the upset caused.  
Again though we are not the regulator, we cannot fine a business and our recommendations 
are not intended  to be punitive. They are instead supposed to reflect what  we think  is fair 
and reasonable.  
The goods  the claim was in respect of were  purchased in 2014. So the payments for them 
were not outstanding on Mr and Mrs Ps credit card  so were  not incurring  penalties  while  
the claim was considered.  From what I understand, although the goods  were found to be not 
as described, no action had been taken to rectify this at the time, so no new cost was 
accruing, pending the outcome of this complaint. And, while Ive mindful of Mr and Mrs Ps 
comments around the items and how this has impacted them,  it seems Mr and Mrs P have 
still been able to use the items in question while  awaiting replacements  as the problem with 
the goods were  for the most part aesthetic. So taking everything into account,  while  I 
appreciate it has taken a few weeks longer  for the claim to have  been  settled than it could 
have, and this was longer than Mr and Mrs P wouldve liked,  I think the offer of £100 made  
by Tesco  is fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN70768853my final decision
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, for the reasons  given above,  I think the offer of 
already made by Tesco is fair so my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7076885