K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about John Thomas Middlebrook, Esq. (JTM) and its involvement in her 
policy being voided. 
background
Mrs D held cover for her tenanted property, she renewed this cover through  her broker JTM 
but when she made  a claim the insurer voided  her policy.  She felt this was because  JTM 
hadnt passed on relevant  information,  so she felt JTM should  compensate  her, they didnt 
agree so Mrs D complained to us. 
One of our investigators  considered the matter but didnt uphold her complaint. As Mrs D 
didnt agree with that the case  has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too wont be upholding the complaint, for the same reasons as the investigator.  
Mrs D seems to think that the claim wasnt paid,  and the policy voided, due to confusion  over 
the dates of disputes with her tenant. That doesnt seem to be the case. The claim was 
declined and cover  voided as the insurer felt the property  was being illegally sub-let. This 
isnt covered by the policy and isnt something  the insurer wanted to be associated with its 
policy, so it voided  cover. 
Looking at the history  here there is some dispute over whether Mrs Ds letting agent knew  
about the sub-letting, but that is unfortunately irrelevant to Mrs Ds case  against  JTM.  To 
succeed in her case against them  I would  need  clear evidence that she told JTM that the 
property was sub-let and that, if she had, they would have  been  able to secure cover for her. 
I cannot find in her favour on either  of those points. Cover for sub-lets is not normally 
available and I havent seen conclusive proof that Mrs D told JTM about the sub-let,  although 
I accept Mrs D may not have known  this herself.  Whether her letting agent knew is between 
them and Mrs D and not a matter within my jurisdiction. 
my final decision
I make  no award against John Thomas Middlebrook, Esq. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7334081