K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance   BPF), is holding her liable for two loans, which she says she didnt take 
out.
background
On 19 February 2018, Miss Ms debit card was used to make  two deposits of £69 on two i-
phones in an Apple  store. The purchases  were financed by two BPF loans, which were 
applied for in store.
BPF sent a text message  to Miss Ms mobile  number on 22 March  2018, notifying her of the 
first direct debit payment. The direct debit was returned unpaid.
Miss M cancelled the direct debit instruction on 5 April 2018. She raised a complaint with 
BPF on 21 April 2018.
She told BPF that she hadnt applied for the loans. She said she had given her account 
number and sort code  to a friend,  whose  own account had been blocked. He told her he 
needed an account to receive  some money  he was due. Soon  after sharing her details with 
him, the friend  made multiple unauthorised transactions  from her account, which she was 
disputing. She said this friend also applied for the two loans.
Miss M said she reported the fraud  to the police and they referred her to Action Fraud but no 
further action  was taken.
Miss M asked BPF to cancel the two loan agreements. 
BPF refused to cancel the loans. It concluded that Miss M had applied  for the two loans 
because:
the loan applications were completed in the Apple store.
Miss Ms personal  details,  including  her phone number, email and home addresses 
and her employers  details, were recorded  on the applications. This information 
matched the details,  which  she supplied to BPF when  she raised her complaint.
the loan applications included her passport  number and they record that her passport 
was checked.
The two advance payments were  made  with Miss Ms debit card and PIN.
Miss M wasnt  happy with BPFs decision so she brought  her complaint to this service.  She 
told us she didnt give her passport  to anyone. She also said no one had taken her debit 
card and it was always in her purse. She said she hadnt  shared her PIN with anyone  else 
and it wasnt guessable.
An investigator looked into her complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary,  he felt unable  to 
conclude that the loan applications were made fraudulently and was persuaded they were  
most likely made by Miss M.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators  view. Shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
Ref: DRN77541722my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the loan applications and 
other activities, and the documentary evidence. Both Miss M and BPF have read the 
investigators view, so I will not repeat every detail here,  only those that form the basis  of my 
decision. However, I can assure Miss M that Ive read the file, including  her comments  and 
evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons. I'm afraid  that based on 
what Ive seen, I dont  think its unreasonable for BPF to conclude  that Miss M applied  for the 
two loans or was somehow complicit with the applications. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this conclusion.
debit card and PIN
Miss Ms debit card and PIN were used in the Apple  store to make  two deposits on new 
i-phones within minutes of the loan applications.  The loans were taken out to pay for the 
same i-phones. Miss M said no one else had her debit card,  which she always  kept in her 
purse. She also said she hadnt shared  her PIN with anyone  and it wasnt guessable. Based 
on her own evidence, this leaves Miss M as the only person who could have made  those two 
transactions. This evidence connects  her to the i-phones and places her in the Apple store 
when the loans were  taken  out.
personal details  and passport number
The loan applications contained Miss Ms personal details, including her date of birth,  phone  
number, email and home addresses and employers details. These  details match the 
information, which this service holds on file for her. I accept this information  is relatively  easy  
to find out by a third party, especially  a friend.  However, the applications also included  her 
passport number. Ive seen a copy of Miss Ms passport and the number matches  the one on 
the applications. Yet, Miss M said no one else had access to her passport. Again, this leaves 
her as the only person who could have supplied the passport.
mobile banking  log ins
Ive also seen the audit log for Miss Ms mobile  banking. It shows  she logged in to mobile 
banking frequently  on 19 February  2018. She logged in before each deposit.  And there were 
twenty logins  after the two £69 payments  were made, so she wouldve seen the two deposit 
payments. Yet, she didnt query the payments with her bank at the time.
emails and text messages
BPF notes show that it sent a welcome email under the reference  Apple Payments to Miss 
Ms email  address on 22 February 2018. This service holds the same  email address. BPF 
also sent a text message about  the first direct  debit payment on 22 March  2018. This was 
sent to the same mobile phone number  as the one this service holds on file. Yet again 
Miss M didnt raise  her concerns with BPF until 21 April 2018, although she did cancel the 
direct debit instruction  earlier.
Ive taken into account that the signatures  on the applications differ  from the signature on her 
passport and the one we hold on file. However,  this might be because the signatures on the 
Ref: DRN77541723applications were  done on an i-Pad, so Im not attaching  much  weight to the differences in 
the signatures, especially  as there  is other evidence to connect her to the loans.
In summary,  I consider that the evidence Ive seen shows  its more  likely than not that 
Miss M applied for the loans. On her own admission, no one else had her debit card, knew  
her PIN, or had her passport. This means she must have been  in the Apple store  when the 
i-phones were purchased  and when the loans were taken out. Its equally possible the 
i-phones were for someone else and they took out the loans with her consent. However, Im 
afraid this still means she is liable  for the loans.
In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable  for BPF to hold Miss M liable for the 
two loans.
I understand this dispute has caused  a great  deal of upset  and anxiety to Miss M especially 
as it seems a friend might have abused their friendship. So I am very sorry to send such  
disappointing news but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7754172