K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Loans  2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
From the information provided, Mr E took out two loans  with Loans 2 Go. The first loan was 
taken in January  2018 for £250. The loan was due to run for 18 months with monthly 
instalments of £56.64. I understand that this loan was topped up into loan 2 in August 2018. 
Loan 2 was for £433.17, due to run for 18 months with monthly instalments of £98.14. 
Theres still a balance  outstanding on loan 2.
When Mr E complained to Loans  2 Go, it didnt  uphold  his complaint. Loans 2 Go said that it 
carried out sufficient  checks  and those checks showed Mr E could afford the loans. Unhappy  
with the response, Mr E referred his complaint to this service  where  it was looked at by one 
of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought that Loans  2 Go didnt do enough before lending  any of the loans 
and had it carried out sufficient checks,  its likely  to have found that Mr E couldnt afford any 
of the loans. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed and as the complaint hasnt been resolved its been passed to me, an 
ombudsman for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Loans 2 Go is aware of the regulatory framework relating to this type of lending  as set out by 
the industry regulator. Before lending money  to a consumer, a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay what  theyre  
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks  needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed  was due to be repaid. 
Loans 2 Go says it checked Mr Es income and expensed before lending both loans. It also 
says it searched his credit file. And based  on what it saw from this it thought it reasonable to 
lend. The credit file showed that Mr E was in arrangements to repay  other creditors and he 
had a default recorded in 2012.
Both these  loans were  due to run for 18 months and I think  given the length of time Mr E was 
committing to the credit  agreement and Mr Es arrangements  to pay other  creditors,  it would 
have been reasonable  for Loans 2 Go to get a clear  understanding  of Mr Es financial 
circumstances at the time. I appreciate  that Loans 2 Go has said it used a higher expenses 
figure compared to what Mr E declared at the time of the application, but I dont those 
Ref: DRN72872302checks were enough  to get a clear picture of Mr Es finances at the time and for Loans 2 Go 
to be confident that Mr E could sustainably repay both loans throughout their terms.
Mr E has provided copies of his bank statements from the time which Ive used to 
understand his actual  financial  circumstances  at the time.  And at the time of loan 1, I can 
see that Mr Es income was around  £1,800 and without taking into account his normal living 
costs, I can see that in the month  before this loan,  Mr E was borrowing from at least  five 
other short term and high cost credit  lenders  and had at least  £1,000 outstanding. I can also 
see that Mr E spent a significant amount on gambling, over £3,000.
This was a pattern that continued and at the time of loan 2, Mr Es income was around 
£1,967 and from what I can see, he owed  more than £1,500 to other lenders and spent  more  
than £700 on gambling. For both these  loans, without taking into account Mr Es normal 
living cost,  Mr E wasnt in a position to sustainably afford the loan repayments  over the term.
And had Loans  2 Go taken its checks further,  its likely to have found that Mr E couldnt 
afford the loans as it seemed he was in a cycle of borrowing, and as a responsible  lender,  
shouldnt have lent to him.  
So, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have lent any of the loans to Mr E and it needs to put 
things right.
Putting things  right
To put things right, Loans 2 Go should;
 
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loans one and two; 
as theres a balance  outstanding on loan 2, Loans 2 Go may use the refund from above 
to offset the outstanding balance;
if the offset  results  in a surplus  for Mr E then Loans 2 Go should  add interest  at 8% per 
year simple to any overpayments from the date they were  paid, if they were,  to the date 
of settlement;
if theres still an outstanding  balance  after the offset then Loans 2 Go should come  to 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr E
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit  file as a result of the interest 
and charges on these  loans.
Ref: DRN72872303HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Es complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2021.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7287230