K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that she has not received the correct  refund in payments for her Payment  
Break Plan (PBP) from Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Background 
Miss B took out a credit  card with Barclays in 2001 and sold alongside the card was a PBP.
Barclays carried out an investigation into the sale of the PBP and offered to refund all the 
PBP fees charged since Miss B took out the card in January 2001. Where  Barclays  did not 
have statements available, it estimated the amount charged for PBP.  This was based on 
Miss Bs transaction behaviour from the statements it did have, together with independent 
data gathered by the British Bankers Association.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. She said Barclays  offer regarding  the PBP 
was a fair one. Whilst some of the refund  was estimated, it aimed  to put Miss B back  into a 
position she would have been in had she not enrolled in the PBP.  It also offered to 
recalculate the offer if Miss B was able to provide statements for the period it did not hold 
records for.
Miss B is unhappy with the offer. She believes the amount in PBP fees she has paid whilst 
the plan was in force would have  been higher than the £176.19  calculated.
As Miss B didnt agree  with what the investigator said,  the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I believe I will disappoint
Miss B further as I have come to the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator.
As the sale took place over 15 years  ago, Barclays doesnt have all the actual data.  This is 
understandable and not unusual as businesses  arent required to keep records indefinitely.  
But where the information is incomplete  I would expect Barclays to make some  reasonable 
assumptions. I think thats what its done  here.
Barclays has provided a breakdown  of the redress due to Miss B and copies of the card 
statements it has available on file. I have carefully  looked at this breakdown and I am 
satisfied that the approach used here is reasonable.
Miss B is concerned that we havent seen all the bank  statements to show how much the 
PBP was. And as neither party are able to provide  these, I cannot be certain if the refund 
Barclays provided is the exact amount  she paid towards the PBP. 
However, I accept that Barclays havent been  able to provide every statement for me to 
review. But I think the redress has been  calculated in line with how I would expect  it to be 
calculated. Considering how long ago the account  was opened  I dont think  its unreasonable 
that Barclays is unable  to provide every statement issued from inception.  
The account  balance  appears to have  been cleared in October 2003 so its unlikely any 
further PBP payments  were charged after that time.  The period over which PBP was 
Ref: DRN71403772therefore charged is a relatively short time.  Miss B accepts the account balance  wasnt  
particularly high and the PBP charge also wouldnt therefore be very high.  This is also why 
the final sum calculated  by Barclays  is not particularly high. 
Its difficult to be certain the exact  amounts that were charged where statements are 
unavailable but considering the circumstances here I wont  be asking Barclays to increase  
the original calculation. 
Barclays has offered to recalculate  the refund if Miss B is able to provide any credit  card 
statements. But I realise that because of the amount of time passed Miss B is unlikely to be 
able to provide  any copies.  
While I appreciate Miss B remains  unhappy, overall Im satisfied  that Barclays  has fairly 
assessed her complaint.  So Im not going to ask Barclays  to do more  than it has or increase 
the amount it has already calculated.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February  2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7140377