K822xcomplaint
Messrs Hs complaint is that a service failure by Barclays Bank UK PLC led to a delay  in 
lifting a suspension  placed on a trading account and that this resulted in lost trading profit. 
They seek  compensation for the alleged lost trading  profit  and for the inconvenience  caused  
by the matter. The suspension began  in late 2017.  It was lifted on 8 January 2018. The claim 
for lost trading  profit  is based on transactions that Messrs H say would have been  completed 
between 2 January  and 8 January 2018  (the relevant period), but for the delay in lifting the 
suspension.
background 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and upheld  it. She concluded that 
Barclays was responsible for the delay in lifting the suspension  the implication being that in 
the absence of the delay  the suspension  would have been  lifted before the relevant period. 
Barclays had previously  reached a similar  conclusion and had made an offer of £250 to 
Messrs H for the inconvenience caused  in the matter. In response  Messrs H rejected its offer 
and retained their counter proposal of £2,000, with what  appears to have been some  room 
for negotiation. The investigator disagreed with both positions and proposed the amount  of 
£500 for the inconvenience caused in the matter.  Barclays  agreed with this counter proposal 
but it is not clear  that Messrs H quite did the same.
In terms of the claim for lost trading profit, the investigator concluded  that Barclays  should 
calculate this on the basis of email  evidence showing a list of around  26 transactions that 
were brought to Barclays attention, by Messrs H, during the relevant  period  some of these 
transactions had been pending  before the relevant  period.  The transactions were  all defined 
by limit orders which appear to have  been due to expire in February 2018. 
The investigator said this evidence makes it possible  to consider what would have happened  
in Messrs Hs trading, but for the delay in lifting the suspension. She proposed that the 
prices for the transactions that would have  been  completed in the absence of the delay 
should be compared to the prices eventually achieved by Messrs H when they were  
subsequently completed.  In this respect, she considered that Messrs H ought reasonably to 
have mitigated the matter by completing  any relevant transactions by 8 August  2018 (the 
end date), when she shared her view. Where  a transaction had not been completed by this 
date she said no comparison would be necessary, but for any loss arising  from relevant  
comparisons (that is, for transactions completed  by the end date) Messrs H should be 
compensated for the loss amount(s) with interest.
Barclays agreed with this proposal  too. Messrs H did not. Their position is that for some  
transactions the prices that would have been  achieved during the relevant period have 
subsequently not been achievable so those  transactions had not been  completed by the end 
date for this reason. They said they could  not know, at the time, that losses  arising from 
completions at less favourable prices would be compensated  to them  and that had they 
known such compensation would be given  to them those transactions  would have been 
completed  so lost profit  for all of the listed transactions  should  be compensated for. In 
response the investigator explained that this service can only award compensation for 
financial loss where such loss is supported by evidence, not where such  loss is mainly 
hypothetical. 
Barclays calculation concluded that 19 of the transactions had not been completed  by 
Messrs H before the end date, so no compensation related comparison could  be applied to 
Ref: DRN79010642them; that two transactions were completed  before the end date, a sell and a buy trade,  but 
the relevant market high and low prices for the day (2 January 2018) did not reach the levels  
set by Messrs H in the limit order for each transaction, so neither transaction  would  have 
been triggered and no comparison would apply; and that the same applies  to five further 
transactions. Overall,  Barclays  position  is that no compensation is due beyond the £500 
proposed by the investigator for the inconvenience caused to Messrs H.
Messrs H retain their position  that lost profit arising  from all of the listed  transactions should 
be compensated for. They have also argued that consideration of when the limit orders 
would have been triggered  should  cover all of the relevant period and not just 2 January 
2018 or when  the limit orders were placed; and that, at the very least, there  is a list of five 
specific transactions for which  the relevant limit orders would have been triggered during the 
relevant period, showing an actual loss of £425.
The investigators proposal could not be agreed  and the matter was referred  to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for broadly the same reasons she gave.
Barclays responsibility for the delay in lifting the suspension is not in dispute. An award of 
£2,000 for the trouble  and upset that the matter  caused Messrs H would be inconsistent with 
the sort of such awards that this service has made or makes  for cases in which  comparable  
trouble and upset  has been caused. I am satisfied with the investigators proposal  of £500 in 
this respect and I consider that it fairly  reflects the trouble and upset caused to Messrs H. 
The main  issue to address is their claim for lost profit.
Where a complaint  is upheld by this service a claim for compensation (for financial loss) 
needs to be supported by evidence. Reference  to a hypothetical loss will not be sufficient in 
this respect. Messrs Hs complaint is aided  by the contemporaneous email  evidence that 
shows the listed transactions from which  financial  losses potentially  arose  because  of the 
delay in lifting the suspension  on the account. This provides a basis to consider redress.
The next task is to address the relevant period. It does not appear to be in dispute that the 
lost trading opportunity relevant to this complaint occurred during the relevant period stated 
at the outset of this decision. Evidence suggests  that the limit orders  for all of the 
transactions were  due to expire in February 2018. It follows  that they all would have been 
active throughout the relevant period  up to 8 January.
Messrs Hs claim is that but for the delay in lifting the suspension the transactions  would 
have been executed during the relevant period.  However,  after 8 January the suspension 
had been lifted  and was no longer a hindrance to trading. The expectation is that Messrs H 
would, or ought  reasonably to, have  mitigated  their circumstances by resuming control  of 
their trading  and by arranging for the execution of their transactions.  The investigator gave 
seven months worth  of allowance  in this respect and Barclays agrees. 
I do not consider  that there  is a reasonable basis to give Messrs  H a wider allowance.  They  
would have known  that the prices during the relevant  period were  not guaranteed to recur  
thereafter. The allowance of reasonable time for them  to try to achieve good  prices for the 
Ref: DRN79010643execution of the transactions is one thing   and, in this respect,  I do not consider that seven 
months can fairly be described as unreasonable. The allowance of more  or indefinite time to 
try to achieve the same prices as those during the relevant period, in an unpredictable 
market and without  any guarantee  about when or if such  prices  will recur, is another thing 
altogether and is an unreasonable proposition especially in the context of complainants  
mitigating their circumstances. I endorse  the end date proposed by the investigator.
As 19 of the transactions do not appear  to have been completed,  by Messrs H, before or by 
the end date it follows that the comparison(s) required  in order to consider whether (or not) a 
financial loss occurred  cannot apply. In other words, no financial loss has been  established  
for these  transactions.
I agree  with the crux of the investigators  proposal for those transactions completed  
(mitigated) by Messrs H before or by the end date.  The relevant buy or sell price for each 
completed transaction should be compared  to the buy or sell price that would have applied 
during the relevant period and, in each case, if the price difference  means Messrs H lost 
money in the transaction that loss should  be compensated to them with interest. 
Barclays says no such comparison can apply to the seven transactions that were completed 
before or by the end date because none of the limit orders related to them  would have been 
triggered  the implication  being  that they would not have  been executed  in any case  (that is, 
even if there  was no delay  in lifting  the suspension). 
In this respect, it is not clear whether (or not) Barclays  has considered all seven transactions  
over all of the trading  dates during the relevant period. As Messrs H have noted, Barclays  
appears to have limited  its consideration to 2 January for some of the transactions  and then 
to other  specific individual dates for the other. I do not consider that to be consistent  with the 
overall effect of the investigators proposal and it is inconsistent with evidence that the limit 
orders remained active for these  transactions throughout all of the trading dates during the 
relevant period. The correct approach is to consider if and/or when the limit order for each of 
transaction would  have  been triggered during the whole  of the relevant period, starting  from 
2 January 2018 for any pre-dated limit orders or from the date of placement  for those placed 
thereafter and ending on 8 January 2018.
what must  Barclays do?
In order to compensate  Messrs H fairly, Barclays must:
Pay them £500  for the trouble and upset that has been  caused to them. If Barclays 
has already paid, and if they have already received, its initially  proposed  payment of 
£250 then only the balance of £250  will be due to them  otherwise the full payment 
of £500 must be made to them.
Provide them with a redress  calculation that is in a clear and simple format  and that 
firstly identifies, based on their trading  history, the 19 transactions  that were  not 
completed before or by the end date stated  above;  that secondly identifies,  based on 
their trading history, the seven  transactions that were completed before or by the end 
date, including  all relevant details of their completion/execution; that thirdly provides 
information on the specific limit orders for each of the seven  transactions and of the 
market high and low prices for each  of the seven  transactions during the relevant 
period; and that, based on the correct approach I have stated above, shows if and/or 
when any of the relevant limit order would have  been triggered.
Ref: DRN79010644If the calculation  shows  that a limit order would have been triggered during  the 
relevant period for any of the transactions that were  completed  before the end date 
and that the limit order would  have achieved a better price than the completion price, 
Barclays must calculate and pay Messrs H compensation for each  such  transaction  
in the amount equivalent to the difference in transaction value between  the price  at 
which the transaction was completed  and the price  that the limit order  would have 
achieved during the relevant period. Interest is payable on each of such  
compensation at 8% simple per year from 8 August 2018 to the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Messrs Hs complaint  and I order Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC to calculate and pay them redress as detailed  above and to provide them  with a redress  
calculation in a clear and simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Messrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7901064