K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the distress hes been  caused  by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when it 
disclosed his new address to his ex-partner.
background
In March 2018 Mr T informed Lloyds  of his new address. Mr T was later told by his ex-wifes 
solicitor that Lloyds had notified her of his change of address. Lloyds looked at what  
happened and agreed it had disclosed his new address to his ex-partner when arranging for 
their joint account to be closed. 
Mr T complained to Lloyds explaining  the difficult situation he was in with his ex-wife. Hed 
said he would have  to move again because  of its error. He wanted Lloyds to pay for his 
moving costs and pay compensation for all the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. 
After careful consideration Lloyds agreed total compensation of £3,959. This was to help 
with some moving and rental costs as well as recognising the significant upset Mr T had 
suffered. Lloyds paid the compensation to Mr T in August 2018 but he didnt accept the 
settlement as he didnt  believed  it reflected the level of stress he was suffering or cover  the 
moving costs he would incur. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said that Lloyds offer was fair and 
reasonable. He explained  that Mr T hadnt  yet moved so hadnt incurred the costs hed 
highlighted with Lloyds.  
Mr T didnt  agree. He said the full extent of the effect on him hadnt been taken into 
consideration. He said it wasnt  easy to move  property and his health was deteriorating 
because of the effect of this situation. As no resolution could be found the complaints  been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including  Mr Ts most recent response to 
my further enquiries.
All sides agree that Lloyds shouldnt have  shared  details of Mr Ts new address with his ex-
partner. And Im satisfied  with Lloyds explanation that the error was caused by a mistake 
when closing down  the joint account. 
Our role isnt to decide if Lloyds has breached data protection laws  thats for the 
information commissioners office (ICO)  to decide but we can look at the effect  that the 
breach has had and whether Mr T has suffered a financial loss or material  distress and 
inconvenience.
 
As theres  no dispute about the circumstances of this case Im going to focus on whether  the 
settlement Lloyds has paid fairly reflects the impact  of what  happened. Having  done  so, Im 
satisfied Lloyds offer is fair in the circumstances  which  I know  will disappoint Mr T  so Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN79908132Theres no doubt that this matter has caused  Mr T significant stress and concern. Ive read 
everything hes told us about why he didnt  want his details to be passed  to his ex-partner 
and I appreciate the seriousness of Lloyds  error.  I have to consider the effect this had on 
Mr T and, based on what Ive seen, I think the figure  is in line with what  I would  have told 
Lloyds to pay. So I think the £1,000 Lloyds has paid Mr T does reflect the significant  amount 
of concern hes had. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the rest of Lloyds offer is fair and reasonable and Ive taken 
into account that Lloyds overall offer included some costs that it seems  wont  incur  now  
such as the cost of breaking the current tenancy agreement. And as Mr T hasnt yet moved 
he hasnt paid any of the other costs he says he will incur upon  moving.  Its always difficult to 
put a figure  on costs  that havent  yet been  paid.  But I dont think  Lloyds is responsible for 
funding all of Mr Ts potential  accommodation  costs  particularly, as he has indicated he 
always intended to move at some  point. 
Lloyds offer means Mr T has around  £2,959 to assist with his moving costs  and I think thats 
reasonable.  The offer looks to compensate Mr T for his out of pocket  expenses   costs  he 
wouldnt otherwise  have had to pay. In this case,  a contribution  to rent is fair but I wouldnt 
expect Lloyds to cover that in full as its always something Mr T wouldve  had to pay, even  if 
he was living  elsewhere. 
I know Mr T would like Lloyds to pay more  towards his moving costs and to increase its 
payment for the stress hes suffered, and Ive taken into account  the difficult  situation this 
breach has put Mr T in.  But Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask Lloyds to pay more  and 
from what Ive seen  think the amount Lloyds has already paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC in as much as I think what its paid 
is fair and Im not going  to ask it to pay anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7990813