K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that when  he mis-fuelled  his vehicle the assistance he was given by Allianz 
Global Assistance (Allianz) didnt  rectify  the matter and caused  further  issues.
background
Mr A accidently filled his car with petrol instead  of diesel and drove  it before he realised his 
mistake. When his car broke  down,  as a result of the mis-fuelling, Mr A called Allianz to ask 
for assistance under his motor breakdown policy.
Under the Significant exclusions  and limitations  section of the policy document  the following 
exclusion is listed:
Contaminated fuel problems - we will arrange  for your vehicle to be taken to a local 
garage for assistance,  but you will have to pay for the work  carried out 
When Mr A called Allianz this was explained  to him and he was told Allianz could arrange for 
an outside company  to attend and flush the fuel system but that he would have to pay for 
this himself. He agreed to this and Allianz  passed the job to an outside company (F).
Fs engineer  attended  and drained  the fuel and flushed the fuel system of Mr As car. F says 
that the engineer put approximately eight litres  of clean  fuel into the car before restarting  it. 
Mr A signed  the engineers job sheet at the time of the flush, it included the following 
disclaimer:
Today, we have attended your vehicle as a result of mis-fueling. Modern vehicle fuel 
systems have sensitive components that are not tolerant  to contaminated fuel.
AFF Holdings  Limited takes  all reasonable care to ensure your fuel system is 
drained to a high standard.  This includes flushing the fuel system with the correct  
fuel. However, as a result of the contaminated fuel, some damage to the fuel system  
may have  occurred or could occur at a later date. In these  circumstances,  AFF 
Holdings Limited cannot accept responsibility for any damage caused by, or as a 
result of, contaminated  fuel. AFF Holdings Limited recommend that immediately 
following our service,  all vehicles  are replenished with some  more of the correct  fuel 
and drive for a minimum of 3 miles, this is to prevent the potential  ingress  of air into 
the vehicles fuel system  due to the system being emptied by our technicians.
As a further precaution, the fuel filter should  be replaced at your earliest opportunity.  
Please discuss any queries you may have with the fuel technician  prior to signing this 
document, before work commences.
Mr A drove his car home, which he has told us, is a short distance from where his car had 
broken down. 
The following  day Mr As called Allianz  for assistance as his car wouldnt start. An engineer  
attended and said the car had insufficient  fuel and helped him to refuel  the vehicle.
Three days later Mr As car broke again  and Allianz again provided assistance   the 
technician couldnt  repair the car at the roadside  and so it was decided  that it would need to 
be recovered to a garage of his choice to be repaired.  Allianz  arranged  this but there  were  
Ref: DRN75564892delays in the recovery vehicle arriving. The repairs Mr A had to have carried  out on his 
vehicle included a new flush  and a change of the fuel filter. Mr A has said the repairs  cost 
him £250.
As Mr A was unhappy  with the service he complained to Allianz, in summary he said:
He accepts that he put the wrong  fuel into his car, but feels  that F didnt flush the fuel 
system correctly. He also says that the engineer transferred the fuel from the tank of 
his own vehicle rather than using new fuel, and feels  that this is what  led to his car 
suffering further  break downs and has caused consequential damage.
He was never given  a copy of the engineers job sheet. He says he was just asked to 
sign it in the dark;  he didnt get to read it and wasnt advised to add more  fuel or have 
the filter changed.  He also says that as he only travelled a short  distance if Fs 
engineer had put eight  litres  of fuel in his car as he said then the car wouldnt have 
had insufficient  fuel in it. 
On the last breakdown he was told Allianz would pay for him to get a taxi and would 
cover costs  for food and drink  due to the delays. Mr A says he never  received any 
money for this. 
Allianz didnt agree  with Mr A that itd done something wrong and so Mr A brought  his 
complaint tour service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint and so the matter has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The work carried out by F was paid for by Mr A and isnt something that was covered by his 
motor breakdown assistance policy.  Because  of this it isnt something  that comes  under the 
responsibility of Allianz and so it cant be held responsible for Fs actions. This means even if 
F didnt do a good  job and caused  consequential damage as Mr A suggests, he would have 
to take it up with F directly. So I dont uphold this aspect of Mr As complaint. But for 
completeness I have asked Allianz to confirm with F if Mr A was given a copy  of the job 
sheet he signed,  so that he couldve read this later and followed the advice given in it. F said 
its job sheets have  a carbon  copy and its procedure that a copy  is given to each customer. 
So its likely Mr A wouldve been given  a copy of this. 
Allianz has confirmed  to me, it did agree  to pay for a taxi for Mr A up to the distance of ten 
miles and to cover the costs of refreshments up to the value of £10 due to the delay in being 
able to recover his car on the third breakdown. Allianz has said Mr A has never  been  in 
touch about claiming  the costs but it is still happy to cover them.  If Mr A would like to claim 
Ref: DRN75564893for them he will need to provide Allianz  with receipts  for these costs from the day of the third 
breakdown. I dont think this is an unreasonable request  by Allianz, so I wont be asking it to 
do anything to put things right here.  It follows that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about  this 
point.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with Allianz - can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7556489