K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Nationwide Building Society (NBS)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a loan. Due to the time that 
has passed, its not clear  from Nationwides records how Mrs M applied for her loan and PPI 
policy. But Mrs M has said things happened  during  a branch meeting.
Because things  happened  many years ago, the loan details arent  known. But the PPI policy  
cost around £6.50  a month. The policy did not attract interest  and could be cancelled without 
penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M for disability, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mrs Ms monthly loan repayment for up to 24 
months in the event  of a successful disability  claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs M was employed as an administrator. She has told us she was entitled to 
three months sick pay but didnt have any other means of repaying her loan should she be 
unable to work. Mrs M has said she had some  medical conditions some  time before the time 
of the sale.
NBS has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in 2001.
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN75975532The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN75975533The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether NBS gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
NBS, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN75975534NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Because the sale took place so long ago  the loan has also been closed for more than 15 
years - NBS no longer has any of the paperwork  from the time of the sale.  And this isnt 
surprising  businesses  dont have to keep  records indefinitely.
But NBS has provided an example secured loan agreement  it says was in use at the time 
Mrs M took out her loan.  Looking at this I can see the cost of the loan was set out at the top 
of the agreement. And beneath this there  is a separate box which  says: Monthly  premium 
for Optional Credit  Insurance. A further box shows the total monthly payment for the loan 
and the PPI.
NBS has also said that a customer would have needed to complete  two direct debit 
mandates  one of the loan and one for the PPI premiums to be paid direct to the insurer.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something different  happened in Mrs Ms case, I think its more likely that Mrs M knew  the 
policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mrs M hasnt said either way. Looking  at 
what happened when  NBS sold Mrs M the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice   
Ive not seen anything which suggests NBS considered Mrs Ms circumstances and 
recommended the cover  to her.
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs M to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mrs M 
was unable to work  through disability  and unemployment.) Ive reached this conclusion  
because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  
the policy was for. I also think Mrs M would  have been told the PPI premium because  this 
was set out on the credit agreement that I think Mrs M would have seen and been asked to 
sign.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mrs 
M agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN75975535Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mrs M? To what extent  did Mrs M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs M suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs M would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had NBS done  things properly.  
Mrs M says she would not have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs M had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mrs M was given about the cost was clear  as I concluded above. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit  and the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Ref: DRN75975536Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mrs M would get back  in return in the event  
she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ms expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs M sought advice or 
treatment for in the 12 months  before the start date of the policy and which  recurred 
during the first 12 months of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
do her normal job or any gainful occupation  which she was expected to undertake 
given her knowledge or training.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking  out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs M says she had some  medical  
conditions some time before the policy  was taken out, I dont think  better  information  about 
this exclusion would  have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because  the things Mrs M has 
referred did not take place in the 12 months before the start date  and in any event one of 
the things is not, in my view, in and of itself a medical condition.
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think Mrs M had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job or any gainful occupation,  which in the insurers view she might reasonably be qualified 
for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would do. And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  given Mrs Ms circumstances and the relatively 
limited other means she had to make her repayments if she wasnt  working, on balance, I 
still think she would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN75975537So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences were  Mrs M made  redundant,  or unable to work through  accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ref: DRN75975538Im also aware that Mrs M thinks NBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mrs M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find NBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that NBS had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7597553