K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the quality of a car he bought under a credit agreement  with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (trading as Hitachi Personal  Finance).
background
Mr M bought  a used  car under a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi  Capital in 
June 2017. The car was five years old and had covered around  64,000  miles. Mr M paid 
around £6,300  for it. 
Mr M says the engine management  light came  on shortly after he bought it but he didnt take 
any action because he thought this was to do with the car requiring a service.  
Around 16 months after buying  the car, Mr M complained about  its quality. At this point, the 
car had covered around 90,000 miles. In summary, Mr M said that the car had various faults 
with the engine, EGR valve, DPF and glow plugs. And he tells us it should  have had work  
carried out prior to him purchasing it under a recall relating  to emissions problems.  He said 
that if the car had the works carried out under  the recall when it was supposed to, it wouldnt 
have its current problems.  Mr M says the car now wont start and will cost around £1,500 to 
fix. 
Hitachi Capital responded and said that it had spoken to the supplying dealership and noted 
it had not been contacted by Mr M. It said that the manufacturer would communicate any 
recalls and so it wasnt responsible for the current faults with the car. Mr M wasnt  happy with 
the response, so referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said there were no 
outstanding recalls on Mr Ms car, and that the service action the manufacturer  referred to 
was an optional update. He said he hadnt  seen any evidence to show the current faults  
were likely caused by the car not having a service action carried  out. He also noted Mr Ms 
use of the car and didnt think the problems  would likely have been present or developing at 
the point of sale. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said hes been told that the faults were caused by not having  the 
correct service action. 
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M bought  his car under a regulated credit agreement with Hitachi Capital. Our service  is 
able to look into complaints about  these sorts of agreements. 
Ive taken into account the relevant law. So in Mr Ms case,  section 75 of the 
1974 Consumer  Credit Act makes Hitachi Capital responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. So what Im deciding is whether  or not Hitachi  Capital 
treated Mr M fairly when considering his claim.
Ref: DRN73366192Mr M has complained there  has been a breach of contract because the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was sold to him. The Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) implies  a 
term into all contracts  to supply goods that the quality of goods is satisfactory. The CRA  says 
that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard  that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account  the description  of the 
goods, the price  paid and other  relevant circumstances. 
In Mr Ms case, the car was used  and had covered around 64,000  miles when he bought  it. 
So Id have  different expectations of it compared  to a brand new car. Having said that, the 
cars condition should  have met the standard a reasonable  person  would  consider  
satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price.
The problem in Mr Ms case is that theres simply not enough evidence to show  that, on 
balance, the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was sold to him. Mr M has been able to 
cover nearly 30,000  miles in the car in a year and a half. I think its very unlikely that Mr M 
would have been able to cover this mileage in the car had the current  problems with it been 
there or developing  at the point of sale. I also dont think  that I can safely  say the car wasnt  
sufficiently durable  given the amount of miles its been able to cover since  Mr M bought it  
considering its age and condition, and taking into account the price Mr M paid for it.
Ive reviewed the Driver & Vehicle  Standards  Agency for details of the recalls for Mr Ms car. 
Ive also thought about the manufacturers  comments about  the service  action  that was 
outstanding on it. Im minded to agree with our investigator that the service  action Mr M is 
referring to is the optional  service update available for his car that was in relation to the 
emissions issue, as opposed  to a recall. 
From what  weve  been told by the manufacturer, the service action shouldnt  have  had an 
impact on performance,  including  engine performance.  And Mr M hasnt provided us with 
evidence to show that the absence of the service  action caused  the current  faults with the 
car. Therefore, I think theres insufficient  evidence to show  that, on balance,  the current  
problems with the car were likely caused because the car didnt have work carried  out on it 
in relation to a recall (or service action).  
So taking everything into account, while I know itll disappoint Mr M, Im not persuaded that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was sold to him. So I dont think  Hitachi  Capital 
acted unfairly in declining his claim. Therefore, Im not going to direct  Hitachi  Capital to take 
any action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7336619