K822xcomplaint
Ms L is unhappy with the offer Scottish  Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon)  made  in respect  of 
her income protection claim.
background 
In April 2016 Ms L made a claim on her income  protection policy. Shed been suffering with, 
what her GP diagnosed  as, reactive polyarthritis following a viral infection towards the end of 
2015. 
In June 2017 Scottish Equitable completed its assessment of Ms Ls claim and offered  her a 
50% benefit payment and refund of premiums  between 21 March 2016  when the deferred  
period ended  until 24 August 2016. It only offered  50% of the available benefit because  it 
felt the evidence showed Ms L had carried on working at least  50% of the time. The insurers 
offer amounted to approximately £1,800.
Ms L appealed and Scottish Equitable gathered further information to enable  it to reconsider 
if it should pay anything  in respect  of Ms Ls claim for the period after 24 August 2016. It also 
paid £150 compensation  to Ms L by way of an apology for failing to explain clearly  that a 
previous £1,000 ex-gratia offer had been  withdrawn  once it agreed to make a part-payment 
for the claim.
In January 2018 Scottish Equitable completed its reassessment. It concluded that, based on 
the medical evidence available  at the time, the offer made in June 2017 was fair. It said 
there was little evidence  to support  Ms Ls incapacity claim given the amount of days shed 
worked over the period  in question along with her other activities  (including volunteer work,  
undertaken during normal working  hours). But it recognised shed had some difficulties and 
made an ex-gratia offer in an effort to support Ms L. It offered:
 
To pay a lump sum of £2,108, representing  monthly payments of £124  for the 17-month 
period between 25 August 2016  to 24 January  2018.
To pay a lump sum of £601.88,  representing  a refund of the policy premiums paid 
between September  2016 and December 2017.
To pay £124 a month for the period 25 January and 24 April 2018.
To pay £62 a month for the period 25 April 2018  to 24 June 2018.
To refund the January 2018  policy premium  and waive the premiums  for February, 
March, April, May and June  2018.
To pay for an initial assessment and up to three  hour-long sessions of work focused  
coaching from an occupational support provider.
Scottish Equitable  also said subsequently  that it had paid Ms L a further  £124  by mistake, 
but it wouldnt seek to reclaim this. Unhappy with Scottish Equitables  offer, Ms L came to us. 
But our investigator thought the insurer had done enough. Ms L didnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld   Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN76092912What do the policy terms say?  
In order to make a successful claim Ms L needed to meet the policy terms and conditions. 
They say, in effect, that the income protection benefit  an amount equal to 55% of the 
average income received over the previous three  years  will be paid after a waiting period 
of 13 weeks if Ms L suffers a loss of income due to becoming incapacitated.  
Incapacity, in Ms Ls case, was defined as unable to do the material and substantial  duties  of 
her own occupation  as a result of accident  or sickness and is not following any other 
occupation. And material  and substantial duties are those duties that are normally  required 
for the performance  of Ms Ls own occupation and cannot reasonable be omitted  or modified 
by her.
As Ms L was self-employed at the time she made the claim,  Income is defined as the net 
profits from her occupation averaged  over three  yeas before Incapacity as assessed  for 
income tax.
The terms and conditions  also explain the income protection benefit  will stop being paid at 
the point when Ms L no longer satisfies the incapacity definition or no longer suffers a loss of 
income.
The policy also provides  a rehabilitation benefit in the event that Ms L suffers a reduced 
income due to becoming incapacitated but returns to work in a reduced capacity. And a 
formula is set out to show how the benefit would be calculated based on standard  versus 
reduced income, the benefit amount and any applicable deductions (which include any 
continuing income). This benefit also stops when Ms L no longer satisfies  the definition of 
incapacity.
Has the claim been dealt  with unfairly? 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say Scottish Equitable has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. And, having 
considered all the evidence, I dont think Scottish Equitable has treated Ms L unfairly.
Ms L says there was a period of time  six/seven weeks has been mentioned  when she 
was, in effect, bedbound and completely unable to work. After that she was able to do some  
things but her recovery was relatively  slow and couldnt predict when  she would have a good 
or bad days.  For this reasons  she didnt  feel able to commit  to any new contracts because  
she didnt want to risk letting down her clients. 
Scottish Equitable  accepts Ms L has had a medical condition which meant  she was unable  
to work at all for a short  period of time at outset. But it doesnt think the medical evidence is 
sufficient to support  Ms Ls self-reported  symptoms and show she was still incapacitated  
when the 13-week deferred period ended and her income protection  claim could start. So 
Ive looked at all the medical  evidence weve been given and what  Ms L told Scottish  
Equitable at various points after she made  the claim in April 2016. And I note, in particular 
that:
The first contact Ms L made with her GP was on 5 January 2016,  having been advised to 
do so by NHS-24 the previous day. The GP noted she was on a course at that time 
some distance from her home and wouldnt be back for another couple of days. So it 
doesnt seem her condition was incapacitating her at that point.
Ref: DRN76092913The notes from the rest of January  2016 mention pain which affected different joints  
throughout each  day and some morning stiffness. But also that her joints  were never hot, 
swollen or red. The referral the GP made to rheumatology mentioned very pronounced, 
intermittent, flitting arthropathy which was adversely affecting her mobility and daily 
functioning. But the GP doesnt  say Ms L was completely bedbound  at that time or 
unable to undertake all daily activities/her occupation. 
In early February 2016  the GP noted Ms L was due to sit an exam later that week  and 
wanted a letter  explaining her condition,  possibly to help her get extra time. Again, that 
doesnt suggest her condition  was incapacitating her at that point despite her saying that 
happened in this time-period, that is a couple  of weeks  after the symptoms started and 
lasted for six to seven  weeks.
In mid-February 2016 the GP recorded  that Ms L had 50:50  good and bad days.  A bad 
day meant constant flitting pain with no relief  possible through  her prescribed medication. 
But, on good  days, her joints were  much better  and she was able to do more and the 
medication worked. She could  still have trouble walking, cycling  and using a mouse for 
more than five minutes but not that this was always the case.  The GP also 
recommended Ms L to do as much as possible, within the limits of her pain, as she felt 
she was losing power in her hands.  Towards the end of the month  she reported her right 
hand and wrist function werent  good but again no detail  was given about how this was 
affecting her ability to undertake daily activities and perform the duties of her 
occupation.
In March 2016 the rheumatologist reported Ms Ls symptoms came  on in a random 
fashion with greater pain and stiffness in the mornings. He commented  on particular 
joints noting no overt swelling and recommended a watch  and wait strategy with no 
current need for alternative medication.
In April 2016 Scottish Equitable completed  a claim form during a phone call with Ms L 
and sent her a copy  it doesnt  look like she ever queried its accuracy. Its recorded on 
the form that Ms L had good and bad days with bad days for the whole of that week  but 
three good days the week before.  She stopped doing everything  in the first six or seven 
weeks and didnt  work at all in the first four weeks (over the Christmas period when most 
construction work stops anyway), but shed  been trying to do a bit of work since  then so 
as not to let her clients down.  Her current output  varied but was 30% to 60% of what  
shed normally achieve. She wasnt looking for any new work but was fully booked until 
May. 
In August 2016 Ms L was discharged  by the physiotherapist after three sessions. While 
Ms Ls presenting complaint was noted as being low back the additional notes  
reported widespread pain. No MSK cause had been found and fibromyalgia was 
suggested. Ms L was discharged because shed  apparently reported 90% progress over 
a four-month period and the physiotherapist felt there was no further benefit to be had 
from further treatment. Ms L has questioned the validity of this report but the 
physiotherapist was a specialist, employed by the NHS and I have no reason  to doubt 
the accuracy of his assessment.
In November 2016 the rheumatologist reported  Ms L had no swollen or tender joints  and 
he was happy  with her progress. While  still reporting some  symptoms, Ms L had 
Ref: DRN76092914managed to reduced the dose of nonsteroidal medication, there was no indication to 
prescribe any disease-supressing drugs  and he would see her again only if there were 
specific issue. 
In September  2016 Ms L started seeing a private  acupuncturist  and reports  that this had 
been the most effective treatment, helping somewhat  to ease her symptoms.
In January 2017, when Ms L provided Scottish  Equitable with the income-related  
information it had been waiting for, Ms L said shed been seeing  a private acupuncturist 
since September 2016. She said her joints still werent great but shed been  improving 
slowly since  receiving this treatment and she was able to perform most daily tasks when 
accompanied by rest and breaks. But she was still only partially productive in terms of 
work output. 
In May 2017 Ms L said she could work to 80% capacity on some days but that varied 
from day to day and, on bad days,  she could only work  at 20%. 
In June 2017 Ms L started seeing  a psychotherapist who, in November 2017, reported 
that Ms L had been unable to undertake any work-related projects at all in 2017.  But that 
doesnt seem to fit with the other  evidence weve been  provided.
In June 2017, as a result of Scottish  Equitables refusal to pay the claim in the way she 
wanted, Ms Ls GP wrote to the insurer. She confirmed Ms L hadnt  been able to function 
effectively in her occupation  because she couldnt manage  the prolonged use of her 
computer which the job required. She noted there was no current need to refer Ms L 
back to the rheumatologist  or to change her treatment.   This is the first time the GP was 
specific about how Ms Ls condition affected her ability to work.   And  she doesnt say 
Ms L couldnt work at all, just that her effectiveness  was impaired.  
In August 2017 Scottish Equitable asked Ms Ls GP for a report. Her previous GP had 
left the practice  so the review was undertaken by another individual.  The GP noted the 
symptoms Ms L had reported  and said, seemingly in response  to the insurers  question, 
that activities werent dangerous for Ms L but that it was very difficult for her to perform 
them.
In December 2017 Ms L agreed to Scottish Equitables request for her to have  an 
assessment with a consultant occupational physician. He reported.  Amongst  other 
things, that Ms L had been on a skiing holiday in February  2016  and while  she was 
generally stiff in the evenings  she coped  alright. She was pain-free  during a three-week 
holiday to a hot, dry place in August 2016.  Shed completed a 53-mile charity  bike ride in 
September 2016 which  shed found  easy to doing  a few years  before, but this time she 
but couldnt get off her bike at the end. She was currently able to work 20 hour a week  
on average but up to 30 hours in a good  week. She could do everything but it was taking  
her longer to do it. Shed  been  involved with a number of volunteer organisations over 
the past year. It was reasonable to expect that shed be able to work full-time again  in 
three to six months.
In February 2018 Ms L had a vocational  psychology  assessment. The report 
subsequently produced said, amongst other things, that Ms L began to experience  pain 
after a flu-like condition  in December 2015 which  started  in her fingers and, over a two-
week period, spread  to other joints  including  her jaw and spine. She was initially off work 
Ref: DRN76092915for seven  weeks before  returning to part-time  work.  At the time of the assessment Ms L 
said her symptoms had improved but she still suffered  with pain, fatigue and lack of 
concentration. She tried to perform  her occupation four days a week and also undertake 
other activities including two to three hours  of volunteer work.  She wasnt  actively 
pursuing additional work because she was unable to commit to a certain number of 
hours and didnt want to let down clients.
The information Ms L has provided about her shows she completed  six jobs in 2016  
the period when  she says she was most severely affected by her condition.  The precise 
dates over which this work  was completed is unclear but she invoiced for four of those 
between 20 May and 8 September  2016. And it seems reasonable to assume she 
completed the work around the dates she invoiced for payment.  She  also invoiced for 
other jobs in 2016/7  which shed  completed before her illness.
In response to the investigators assessment Ms L said she was incapacitated for about 
half a year and there was no productivity  or output at all in that time. There was gradual 
improvement from Summer 2016  onwards.  The prediction in December 2017 that she 
would be able to work  more productively  was accurate and she was back  to full-time 
work by June 2018.
Scottish Equitable  has said its not entirely clear  from the evidence what  duties of her role 
Ms L has and hasnt been able to carry out at various points in time. So it cant  be satisfied 
she met the incapacity  definition at the end of the deferred period.  And given the medical 
records and inconsistencies between these and what Ms L says, overall, I dont think that 
was an unfair conclusion to reach. 
Ive also considered Scottish Equitable  assertion that theres  limited  evidence to show  Ms L 
was on a reduced income for the entire  claim period. Its pointed specifically to her 2016/17 
tax return which shows a higher level of net profits being earned than in the pre-incapacity  
period. I cant dispute that. And, while  Ms L has said that some of those earnings  related to 
work shed  completed  before her incapacity the policy terms and conditions  the benefit  will 
only be paid if Ms L suffers a loss of income.  And, as Ive already said, the calculation  for 
any rehabilitation benefits allows any continuing  income to be deducted. So it doesnt  seem 
wrong to rely on the tax returns  information  Ms L has provided  (as well as the invoicing 
information) when assessing  whether shes suffered a loss of income or when calculating 
what it feels to be a fair ex-gratia payment.
Given everything Ive seen I cant fairly say, on the balance of probabilities, that Scottish 
Equitable should pay anything further  in respect  of a claim made under either the full income 
protection or partial  rehabilitation  sections  of cover.
With that in mind, I understand Scottish Equitable hadnt paid the £124 it had offered for the 
period 25 April to 24 June 2018 and it hadnt covered Ms Ls premiums  for March to June 
2018. The investigator thought it would be fair for this to be paid and I agree,  in principle. But 
over a year has passed since  that offer was made and I understand Ms L hasnt paid any 
further premiums for some time now. So it doesnt really seem  to matter if those premiums  
are now waived as its likely  the policy has now lapsed. I recognise Scottish Equitable  said at 
one point that it overpaid Ms L by £124  and wouldnt seek  to reclaim  that money but its not 
clear to me how that overpayment happened and Scottish Equitable didnt object to the 
investigators recommendation. So I think  it should  pay the remaining £124.
Ref: DRN76092916my final decision
My final decision is that Scottish Equitable should  pay £124 to Ms L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7609291