K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained Nationwide Building Society wouldnt agree to process a 
chargeback request for monies they paid for a car they believed was faulty.
background
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs T bought a new car. They paid a deposit of £100 and the 
remaining balance of £15,989 on their Nationwide debit card.
Later that month, Mr T contacted the dealer as he felt the car was behaving  in a sluggish 
manner. He was also having difficulty when refuelling the car. The car went  back to the 
dealers on 12 December 2018.  They rectified  the fault with refuelling  but couldnt  detect any 
sluggishness (or juddering as the issue became identified) after carrying out various 
diagnostics. Mr T took the car away.  
On 11 January 2019 as he was still experiencing a loss of power  and remained unhappy 
with the car, Mr T confirmed he was looking to reject  the car under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015. The dealer rejected this as they felt there was no fault. As Mr T couldnt resolve this 
with them,  he raised his complaint with Nationwide 
Nationwide wouldnt agree to raise a chargeback on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf. They  believed  
the dealer had offered  to review whether a fault existed  but Mr T had rejected this. They 
asked Mr T to provide  further evidence to support his case.  As they received nothing  and 
believed no chargeback would be successful, no chargeback was raised.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint  to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator had the benefit  of the detailed evidence submitted by Mr T. This included  
what hed received from both Nationwide and the dealers after Mr T had submitted subject 
access requests. He (our investigator) confirmed the chargeback process was not backed by 
law and could understand why Nationwide  felt there  was a limited chance of success in 
getting money back for Mr and Mrs T. He wasnt going to ask Nationwide  to do anything 
further.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with this outcome. Theyve asked an ombudsman  to make  a 
decision on their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why below.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than Mr T in his 
detailed submissions to both Nationwide and ourselves. Ive also done so using my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by Mr T. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
Ref: DRN78271372reach what I think is the right outcome. Mr T can be reassured Ive reviewed and considered  
all of the evidence  hes provided. Thats included reviewing in detail his 10-page letter  of 26 
May 2019.
Ive focussed  on what I think is the key issue  here: whether Nationwide acted fairly in 
deciding not to pursue a chargeback.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. This 
includes the chargeback rules  that applied at the time.
The chargeback rules are set by the international card schemes  and describe how disputes 
can be resolved. There is no obligation on card issuers to provide  a chargeback to their 
customers but, in general, our service expects these to be processed unless the card issuer  
has a good reason for believing the chargeback would be unsuccessful.
Mr T has written in detail about his rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Im aware 
what these say. However when I consider whether Nationwide acted fairly in not processing 
the chargeback,  I am not considering whether Mr T had a right under the CRA to reject  his 
car. This complaint isnt about the condition  of his car but about the actions of his bank.  So I 
wont be deciding  as its not my remit within  this complaint  whether Mr T had a valid right 
under the CRA to reject  his car.
There is a chargeback category that would  be relevant to Mr and Mr Ts issue: Not as 
Described or Defective Merchandise/Services. This allows Nationwide to obtain  the evidence  
they believe is needed to be submitted as part of the chargeback.  When  Nationwide  were 
considering the issues  raised by Mr and Mrs T, they were also in touch with the car dealers.  
Its clear from this correspondence that the dealers  without additional evidence  were  not 
going to accept the chargeback request. I suspect the correspondence Mr T has seen, along 
with us, is exactly what theyd have shared with their acquirers if any chargeback  claim had 
been initiated. From my experience of chargeback cases, I think its most likely that a 
successful defence would have been  made.  Nationwide also believed  this to be the case 
and I believe thats why no chargeback was made. I dont believe they did anything  wrong 
here.
I appreciate Mr T believes he has a right under the CRA without needing  to submit further 
evidence. But theres nothing within the chargeback rules to cater  for this aspect. I accept  
this means theres  a potential disconnect between two different forms of consumer 
protection. However as pointed out already,  consumers have no rights under the chargeback 
rules.  
Im aware how strongly Mr T feels about this issue so I understand he will be disappointed 
by my conclusion but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  to ask Nationwide to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN78271373I can see issues were  slightly  complicated  by Nationwide mistakenly reviewing this complaint 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mrs T initially  paid the deposit of £100  
using her Nationwide credit card. But this transaction was refunded within  a couple of days  
as Mr and Mrs T decided  to pay the deposit  using a debit card.  To avoid any doubt Im going 
to confirm Nationwide were right in saying Mrs T had no rights under section 75 as there was 
no related transaction in place.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint 
against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7827137