K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that One Sure Insurance Limited gave him incorrect advice about  his
no-claims discount (NCD) when he bought his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
background
Mr H bought a policy  through  One Sure on the phone. He said he told One Sure he had
three years NCD but then later realised this was wrong as he only had two years. He said
he called  One Sure to correct the information  and One Sure  told him the change wouldnt
impact on his premium. But after contacting  Mr Hs previous insurer, his new insurer  
increased his premium.
As he thought the increase was too much Mr H cancelled  his policy and sold his van. He 
also complained  to One Sure. One Sure said it couldnt find a call where it had given Mr H
incorrect information but said it would remove the additional premium to resolve  things.
One Sure also waived  its cancellation fee but said Mr H still needed to pay for the time hed
been on cover. Mr H didnt think he should have to pay anything and brought  his complaint
to us. He said hed lost earnings as hed been  out of work due to not being able to use his
van.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 February  2020  where  I explained why 
I didnt think One Sure had done anything  wrong. In that decision I said:
One Sure is the broker that sold the policy and isnt responsible for the price of the policy.  In
this decision I can only comment on what One Sure  and not the insurer  might,  or might
not, have done wrong.  That means Im not going  to comment  on whether the insurer was
right to charge  the additional  premium,  only about  the information One Sure gave in relation
to the NCD. I can also only comment on any charges applied  by One Sure in relation to the
cancellation of the policy and not anything charged  by the insurer or finance  company.
Ive listened to calls where Mr H bought his policy and heard that he said he had three years
NCD on his car. After selling Mr H his policy One Sure sent Mr H a copy of his documents.
This included a declaration form he needed to fill in and send  back. I can see the declaration
form Mr H filled in said he had 2/3 years  NCD. Mr H said he called One Sure  on the same
day as buying  his policy to let it know hed made  a mistake. But I think  its unlikely he would
have put 2/3 years on the declaration form if hed called One Sure to confirm he only had
two years. I think  its likely he would have  updated  the declaration form before sending it
back as hed noticed it wasnt correct.
One Sure said its searched its system but doesnt have any record  of that call. I appreciate
Mr H recalls calling on that date, but he hasnt provided anything  other  than his verbal
testimony to show that he called. So, on balance  I dont think  Mr H called to change  his
NCD.
One Sure said Mr H had paid a total of £2,432.71  for his policy and had received £347.95
back from his bank  through a charge back.  It said hed paid a deposit of £493.25.  I
understand Mr H also owed £98.02 for a separate policy hed had cancelled. But Im not
going to consider that as part of this complaint as it concerns a different policy. One Sure
has also said Mr H doesnt need  to pay the additional premium the insurer charged.
The only charges that I can consider here are the arrangement fee of £250 and the
Ref: DRN71339852amendment fee of £35, as these  are charged by One Sure. However, I understand One Sure
waived these charges.  So, I dont think I need to comment on them any further as theres  no
financial loss to Mr H because theyve  been waived.
As Mr Hs insurer added an additional premium to his policy One Sure needed to pass  that
on to him. I understand Mr Hs frustrated because hes said he wouldnt  have  cancelled  his
policy if hed known One Sure would offer to remove this for him. But that isnt something
One Sure needed to do, so I dont hold it responsible for Mr H cancelling his policy.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr H was hoping  for, but I dont intend to ask One Sure  to
do anything differently.
Neither Mr H nor One Sure responded to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr H nor One Sure responded I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7133985