K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about what Santander UK Plc did when  it blocked a payment on his 
account. 
background
Mr M told us that his debit  card was frozen by Santander as he would not answer security 
questions on incoming  calls. Hed called Santander  back instead. Mr M told us that 
Santander was claiming it had some  evidence that his phone wasnt  actually  his, but it hadnt 
told Mr M what that was. And Mr M said that Santander was still sending  internet banking 
passcodes to that mobile number.
Mr M said that Santander has refused to remove the block  on his account until he visits the 
bank. He didnt  think that should  be necessary,  and he wanted Santander to unfreeze his 
debit card without him having to do that.
Santander said that one of Mr Ms transactions had been picked up by its security systems  
as possibly not genuine. Santanders automated system contacted him on his registered 
mobile number, but the relevant security wasnt completed. Mr M was asked to contact  
Santanders security team. Santander  said that unfortunately due to security issues when he 
called back, Mr M wasnt able to update his card activity  over the phone.  It has also told us 
that a security check that it did on Mr Ms mobile phone failed. So it was asking him to go 
into a branch with proof of his account ownership  and photographic ID. 
Mr M says something different. He says that hed passed the security  check  by phone,  and 
was given full access to his account information.  So he didnt know why he needed to go into 
a branch. 
Our adjudicator asked  Santander some further  questions, and it said that his mobile  was 
never blocked. It said that hed been asked to go into a branch to confirm the payment that 
he was trying to make  was genuine, or to report it as fraud. But that hadnt  happened, and 
because of the length of time that had passed, Santander didnt need Mr M to do that any 
more. Santander  said that Mr M hadnt attempted to use the card since,  and he didnt use it 
regularly anyway, but he could use the card as normal  again  now if he wanted to. 
Our adjudicator asked,  if there was a problem with Mr Ms mobile, why passcodes were  still 
being sent to that number. Santander said that those passcodes are always sent to the 
number the customer  has registered to receive them on. And they are only sent once a 
customer has logged in online, so has identified themselves  in that way. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Santander had explained that 
there wasnt necessarily a problem with Mr Ms phone, so it didnt feel it needed  to stop 
sending passcodes to it. It just wanted to carry out some additional security around  the time 
that a payment on his account  had been  flagged, and our adjudicator didnt think this was 
unreasonable. Santander has confirmed  that Mr Ms card is no longer blocked. Our 
adjudicator didnt think that Santander  had to tell Mr M the details of its security systems. 
She didnt  think that Santander had done anything  wrong. 
Mr M said that he was very surprised  that Santander had told us that his account wasnt  
blocked. He said that Santander  had never  told him this, so he hadnt been  able to use his 
card for the last eight months. He thought that this was another reason why Santander  
Ref: DRN74650122should be paying him some compensation. He wanted his complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Santander has said that it doesnt think that theres  a problem with Mr Ms mobile. It said that 
it had done a check on his mobile,  which had failed, but it wasnt  uncommon for the check  to 
fail for reasons  unrelated  to its security. 
But Mr M said that Santander had told him it couldnt rely on this mobile number being a 
genuine means of contact  for him. If thats right, then would seem reasonable for Mr M to be 
concerned that Santander would keep using this number to send out OTP codes. 
Ive listened to the call that Mr M made  to Santander again. The first call handler on that call 
told Mr M that we do a telephony check in conjunction with the phone  provider. We just got 
a response that means we can no longer rely on this phone number being a genuine  means 
of contact for yourself. Mr M asked  for an explanation why not, and was told that the call 
handler couldnt go into specifics under tipping  off regulations.  
I think the issue with Mr Ms mobile  phone  was rather  less serious than this might suggest.  
But I note that Mr M was then handed  over to a complaints handler. He was told then that 
Santander couldnt give him a specific reason for the phone check having failed. The 
complaints handler  explained that this was because they just couldnt tell why the check had 
failed. She did say that it could be nothing more than poor mobile reception. She also 
reassured Mr M that this was nothing to do with his refusal to answer the security questions 
on a previous call to him.
So I do think  that Mr M was given some unhelpful information on this call, but I think  that was 
very quickly corrected. 
I also note that Santander  didnt tell Mr M on that call what its now telling us, that he only 
needed to go into a branch to clear up the issues with the payment that had been refused. 
But Santander has also told us that its call handler  wouldnt  have been  able to tell Mr M that 
if he didnt go into branch, then his card would just be unblocked eventually. The call handler 
wouldnt be able to tell that this was going to happen later on. 
I think its reasonable for Santander to say that, at the point where it was talking to Mr M, it 
didnt know whether there would be further  security  concerns or not, so it couldnt promise  
that this card would  be unblocked eventually if Mr M didnt act. 
Mr M said he didnt  think  he shouldve needed  to go into a branch at all. But I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Santander, in the circumstances as they were at the time of the call, to 
ask Mr M to go into a branch to identify himself  if he wanted to use the card.  And nor do I 
think it was unreasonable for Santander  not to notify Mr M that the block  had been  removed 
on his card. I wouldnt expect it to take that step, again for security  reasons.
Ref: DRN74650123I have reviewed this case carefully,  and listened  to the calls that Mr M had with Santander, 
and I dont think it did anything wrong. I appreciate that Mr M found it inconvenient to be 
asked to go into a branch,  but Ive explained  why I dont think that was a mistake.  And I note 
that he hasnt  actually had to do that.
I know Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont  think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7465012