K820x#14complaint
Ms B and Mr B say The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS), mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
In January 1998 Ms B and Mr B were  sold an MPPI  policy  to protect  the payments on a 
mortgage which was arranged in 1991. The MPPI provided cover  for Ms B only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms B and Mr B disagreed,  so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms B and Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
When selling  the MPPI  to Ms B and Mr B, RBS shouldve made it clear the policy  was 
optional. It also shouldve  got their agreement to take it out. Ms B and Mr B say that they 
didnt know they had been sold MPPI and they didnt want it. RBS hasnt been  able to 
confirm how the MPPI  was sold. It also isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time the 
sale took place.  This is unfortunate,  but not unusual given how long ago the sale took place. 
And businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. Where I have limited  information 
about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the information and 
evidence I have seen.
The MPPI was taken out in 1998  which is over 6 years after the mortgage was arranged. So 
Ms B and Mr B had the mortgage for some time before MPPI was added to it. I think  this 
shows that it was a separate product that was optional. And based on what  we know about 
how MPPI was sold I think its very unlikely  the policy  wouldve  been  set up without some 
paperwork being completed or a discussion taking place about it. It also seems the MPPI 
was amended in 1999. This shows that Ms B and Mr B knew the policy was in place and if 
they had any queries  regarding it I would have expected them to raise these at that time. 
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied its more likely that Ms B and Mr B gave their 
consent for the MPPI  to be set up and the policy was presented  as optional. Although I can 
understand why they may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Its not clear whether  the MPPI was recommended to Ms B and Mr B at the time. Ive looked 
at the case as though RBS did recommend it as this places a greater  level of responsibility  
on it. This means RBS had to check the MPPI  was right for Ms B  as she was the only one 
covered by it. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. I 
say this because:
Ms B was eligible for the MPPI. 
It doesnt seem Ms B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover  like unusual  working arrangements or known medical  conditions.  
Ref: DRN74429182Ms B has referred to her employee benefits  and says they were  significant so she 
wouldnt need the policy. The MPPI  wouldve paid out for 12 months  if Ms B was off 
work due to accident or sickness. And it wouldve also paid out for this long if she lost 
her job. This wouldve allowed her to use her employer  benefits to cover  any other 
living expenses or financial commitments. 
Ms B says she also had some  savings at the time. The MPPI wouldve  allowed her to 
keep these savings  intact as it wouldve covered the mortgage payments if she was 
unwell or lost her job.
Ms B and Mr Bs mortgage was a significant and long term financial commitment,  
which was secured on their home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for them. And I think having the security  that the 
repayments wouldve  been made  if Ms B was unable to work  wouldve been 
important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms B and Mr B.  And  as the 
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have  amended or cancelled  the 
policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information RBS gave Ms B and Mr B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the MPPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms B and Mr B have said, including the comments  about family  
helping if they needed it. Whilst I dont doubt it wouldve been the intention  of family to help 
this would depend on their circumstances at the time and this help cant be guaranteed.  And 
Ive also thought about Ms Bs comments that she had never missed mortgage  or loan 
payments in the past so she didnt  need the MPPI.  But the policy is designed  to protect 
against unforeseen changes in circumstances and the fact she has met her commitments  
doesnt meant the MPPI  wouldnt have been of use if the unexpected happened. So these 
points dont change  my decision  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI 
was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against The Royal  Bank of Scotland 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74429183
Ref: DRN7442918