K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc applied an arranged  overdraft fee to his 
account despite him crediting the account the same day. He also says its text alerts  arent  
consistent and dont help manage the account leading  to him incurring a £6 overdraft fee.
background 
On 20 August 2018 Mr Ts account was overdrawn.  He received a text from NatWest at 
18.52pm informing  him of this. He says he then completed a faster payment between his 
NatWest accounts to cover the overdraft and put the account  back  in credit. His mobile 
application showed this as being credited the same  day but his statement showed it being 
applied the next day resulting in him incurring the £6 overdraft fee for the previous day. 
Our adjudicator initially felt this complaint should  be upheld. She said:
NatWest advertises its 24 hour banking service but this makes no link to when 
payments will be credited. It simply means customers can access  their accounts at 
all times  in the day.
The faster payments  website says some payments will take longer especially  outside 
normal hours. At a minimum  all payments made by mobile, internet or phone banking  
must arrive by the end of the following business day at the latest. So, despite 
receiving a text notifying of the account balance Mr T could still incur the overdraft 
fee for that day.
The text alert is a tool to help customers keep track of their account but ultimately  its 
the customers responsibility to check the account  balance  to stop it going 
overdrawn. The account terms say an arranged overdraft fee will be charged  and this 
can apply even  if its cleared later the same day.
The mobile banking  app also says if a payment is made after 18.30pm it will show on 
the statement  the next business  day. 
In this case as Mr T received the text alert later in the day he wasnt  given  the chance 
to change the situation. NatWest  has agreed to refund the £6 fee as a gesture of 
goodwill. Thats fair and reasonable.
Mr T remained unhappy saying he wanted to be compensated further. He said he spent 
many hours raising this complaint with NatWest and as itd been upheld he should be 
compensated for this. Mr T also referred to another similar complaint he made to us.
The adjudicator subsequently issued  a second view concluding NatWest hadnt in fact made 
an error. She says It has shown that it sent the text alert in good  time at 08.58am. But Mr T 
only received it at 18.52pm. Thats not NatWests fault. 
Mr T has asked for an ombudsman review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78225922Mr T has referred  to a previous complaint he made  to us about  NatWest which he says is 
similar and relevant. Ive noted  what happened in the other complaint. But I must consider 
this current complaint only on what happened around the 20 August 2018.  And the final 
decision in Mr Ts previous complaint isnt a binding  precedent. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think NatWest has done anything  wrong  in this case.
It sent Mr T a text alert about his account being  overdrawn at 08.58am.  And as his account 
was overdrawn it applied  the £6 overdraft fee in accordance with the accounts terms and 
conditions. 
It wasnt NatWests  fault that the text alert didnt arrive until 18.52pm. 
I appreciate Mr T then quickly took steps to pay money  into his overdrawn account.  But as 
the faster payments  website  and NatWest make clear, payments made outside normal hours  
may take longer to process. In this case although the app mayve shown the payment being 
made immediately it wasnt credited to the receiving  account until the next working day and it 
didnt show on Mr Ts statement until then. 
That appears to be in line with the faster payments  promise that at a minimum all payments 
made by mobile,  internet  or phone banking must arrive by the end of the following business  
day at the latest.  
Whatever happened, it remained  Mr Ts responsibility to monitor  his account to ensure it 
wasnt overdrawn. And when it became overdrawn NatWest was entitled  to apply the 
overdraft charge as it did. Even so NatWest has refunded  the £6 charge as a goodwill 
gesture which  I think is fair.
Mr T wants compensating for what happened. But taking  everything into account  I dont  think  
NatWest has done  anything wrong  warranting an award of compensation. Furthermore all 
consumers spend  some time and experience some additional inconvenience  in dealing with 
a complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated 
for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably  depart from this approach in this case.  
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ts frustration,  I dont  think  I can fairly or reasonably require 
NatWest to do any more  than its already done.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822592