K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr H had four loans from Uncle Buck between September 2016 and February 2018:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 14 Sep 2016 £400 3m £176.16 25 Nov 2016 On time
2 28 Jul 2017 £500 3m £250.07 25 Oct 2017 On time
3 9 Nov 2017 £600 3m £272.81 25 Jan 2018 On time
4 5 Feb 2018 £700 6m £214.14 25 Jul 2018 Outstanding
Mr H says Uncle Buck didnt carry out the correct affordability checks before approving  his 
applications. He says hes in a debt spiral from using high interest loans  to pay monthly bills.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  Mr H for information  about  income  and expenditure and verified 
the income figure provided. It says it also carried  out credit  checks  and there was nothing  
which gave it reason to decline Mr Hs applications.  It adds that it consistently approved less 
than the £1,000 for which Mr H applied each time and that he had a good  repayment history.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be partially upheld. She was satisfied 
Uncle Buck  did enough  checks before it approved the first three loans, but considered it 
should have asked Mr H whether he had any other  short-term loans before approving  loan 4. 
She found that, had it done so, its likely  Uncle Buck would have seen he owed a significant 
amount to other  short-term loan providers and could not afford the repayments  on loan 4. 
She recommended Uncle Buck should  refund interest and charges on loan 4 (plus  8% 
statutory interest) and remove any associated negative information from his credit file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that it had carried out proportionate checks for 
loan 4 and that Mr H declared  a disposable income  of £562 which made  the repayments 
affordable to him. It adds that it further  questioned Mr Hs declared expenditure and he 
responded with more  detailed information  about  two personal loans. Uncle Buck  added  that 
its credit  check  showed a lower figure for outstanding short-term loans than that suggested 
by the adjudicator and it didnt appear  that it was due to be repaid in one instalment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure 
Mr H could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr H applied for his first loan, he told Uncle Buck his income was £2,225. As Uncle 
Buck verified this information, and the scheduled  repayments were a small proportion  of Mr 
Hs income, Im satisfied Uncle Buck would have found this loan to be affordable.
Ref: DRN70179052Loans 2 and 3
It was over eight months before Mr H applied for his next loans. Because the repayments 
were higher,  I consider a proportionate check should have included asking Mr H about his 
regular expenditure too. I can see Uncle Buck did this and found  his declared disposable 
income was over £700. As there was also nothing to indicate financial  difficulties  on his 
credit file, I cant  conclude Uncle Buck was wrong to approve loans 2 and 3.
Loan 4
Mr H repaid loans 2 and 3 on time,  and applied  for loan 4 shortly afterwards. Although  Uncle 
Buck approved a slightly higher loan amount, the term was longer, meaning  the repayments  
were lower.  Nevertheless, I still consider Uncle Buck needed to ask Mr H about income and 
regular expenditure as hed now been borrowing almost continuously for over six months.  
Again, I can see Uncle Buck did this and Mr H said his disposable income was £562.  Also,  
due to entries on his credit file, Uncle Buck asked Mr H about his regular credit repayments. 
Uncle Buck  was satisfied  with Mr Hs response  and approved loan 4 on that basis.
But, Uncle Bucks credit check also showed short-term loans of £1,669.  I accept this is lower 
than the £1,800 calculated by our adjudicator, but Mr Hs declared  disposable  income left 
just £350 to cover payments to other lenders. So I think its likely loan 4 was unaffordable.
Based on what it saw on his credit  file Id have expected Uncle  Buck to ask Mr H about  other  
short-term loans. I cant see it did this. Had it done so, its likely to have found payments of 
over £1,300 were  due to four lenders in the month after loan 4, for instalment loans taken out 
in late 2017. Even if it only asked  Mr H about the £1,669  on his credit  file, it wouldve found 
this one loan required monthly payments of £417.  This, by itself,  made loan 4 unaffordable.
So, whilst I accept Uncle Buck carried out proportionate checks for loan 4, I cant  agree it 
should have approved the loan, based  on the results  of those  checks.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP should:
Refund  all interest and charges that Mr H paid on loan 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from payment date to settlement date*;
Write off any unpaid interest  and charges on loan 4, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding  and pay any balance to Mr H; 
Remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from interest. Uncle  Buck must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax this is if he requests it. If Uncle Buck  intends  to 
apply the refund to reduce  an outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7017905