K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Ms W complain on behalf of a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP), T that Revolut 
Ltd didnt do enough to help T when they were the victims  of a scam. 
For ease of reading, and as hes taken the lead in bringing the complaint, Ill mostly only 
refer to Mr S, where I mean T. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  
In March 2019 T were  unfortunately the victims  of a scam. Mr S instructed two payments 
from Ts account to pay for some work in relation to his business. Unfortunately, the invoice 
hed received had been  hacked and the genuine bank details had been  replaced by those of 
a scammer.  So, the two payments went to the scammers account rather  than to the correct 
recipient as Mr S had intended. 
The payments made as a result of the scam were £1,000 on 12 March 2019 and then 
£19,177.85 on 13 March 2019. Both payments went to an account  held with Revolut. 
By 21 March  2019 Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam  and reported this to his bank 
who in turn contacted Revolut. Revolut said that by this point all the funds had already been  
withdrawn from their customers  account. 
Mr S complained. He was unhappy that Revolut had allowed  a scammer to open  and 
operate an account, he holds them responsible  for the loss. Revolut responded to the 
complaint. In summary they sympathised  with Mr S position, but said they do all the correct  
checks before opening  an account and felt theyd acted promptly  once made  aware of the 
scam. So, they didnt  think they needed  to do more.  
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in Authorised  Push  Payment (APP) scam  cases. 
But Mr S right to refer, to our service, his complaint about the receiving/beneficiary bank 
comes about following  changes made  by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  to our 
jurisdiction rules. These now allow, in limited  circumstances,  eligible complainants  to refer 
complaints about  the bank that received  their funds. 
The matter  was referred to our service and one of our investigators  thought  the complaint 
should be partially upheld. She didnt think Revolut could have prevented  the loss of the 
initial £1,000  payment.  But she thought they could have done  more following the second, 
payment and recommended that it be refunded along with 8% interest. 
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendation. Revolut disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. Initially I reached the same  overall  outcome  as our 
investigator, but for slightly different reasons. So, I shared these with Revolut and gave them  
a further opportunity to comment. Now Ive done  so, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
Ref: DRN73246822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances of this complaint,  Im satisfied that Revolut correctly  followed  their 
account opening procedures in relation to the scammers account. And whilst Im unable to 
share the details  of the third party involved,  Id like to assure Mr S that Ive carefully reviewed 
this and there wasnt anything that I think reasonably could have alerted  Revolut  that the 
account they were  opening would later be used for fraud. They  conducted appropriate 
checks in line with their obligations to do so.
I also agree  with our investigator that there  was nothing unusual about the account activity  
following the £1,000 payment into the scammers account that reasonably could  have given 
Revolut reason to intervene. I dont  think it was unreasonable for Revolut to follow their 
mandate which was to process the transactions their customer authorised and I dont think 
Revolut could have  prevented the loss of the £1,000. 
Revolut have obligations to monitor accounts  for unusual or suspicious  activity. In the 
circumstances of this complaint Im pleased to see that the activity  following Mr Ss large  
credit to the account  was identified as unusual by Revolut.  I agree  the account  activity at that 
point was unusual  and worthy of further scrutiny by Revolut.  And whilst certain steps were 
taken by Revolut  in relation to that activity, I dont think they went far enough. There was 
more Revolut could  and should  have  done.  
Revolut have highlighted that certain steps were  taken by their banking partner and have 
sought to highlight the difference between that and actions they themselves took. Ive 
considered this, but ultimately, the scammers  account was with Revolut and whatever 
arrangements they may have in place  to administer their accounts  and payments, Revolut 
retain responsibility. If Revolut had gone further,  as I think they should  have,  its more  likely 
that the second payment  Mr S sent would  have remained in the account  and would have 
been available for recovery  when the scam was reported. 
And whilst I take on board  that there was no requirement when crediting the payment  to their 
customers account for Revolut to check the named beneficiary on the payment instruction 
matched the named account holder, once Revolut were looking at the account  (as a result  of 
the unusual activity)  they would have seen Mr S incoming payment  had a different 
beneficiary name to that of the account  holder. So, I think this would have been enough for 
Revolut to have  had concerns that something might be amiss here and to ask their customer  
to explain their entitlement to those funds. Ive not seen anything  to persuade me that the 
account holder  would have been  able to provide  a plausible explanation for the beneficiary 
account name mismatch  or that they would have been able to evidence  their entitlement to 
those funds. 
As such I think  all except  the initial £1,000 that was transferred from the account should  be 
refunded to T along with 8% simple interest (yearly)  to compensate for T not having  access 
to and the use of those  funds for that period of time.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Revolut Ltd must:
Ref: DRN73246823Pay T £19,177.85
Add to that amount  8% simple interest (yearly) to be calculated between  the date of 
Ts loss and the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7324682