K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs P took out a credit card in 1997. She was sold the PPI in connection with this credit card 
at the same  time during  a postal sale.
The PPI would have  cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  It 
would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months if Mrs P 
was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Mrs P didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs P was eligible  for the PPI at the time of the sale. 
Given Mrs Ps age and her circumstances at the time, Im satisfied she was eligible.
RBS had to make it clear  to Mrs P that PPI was optional and needed her consent  before it 
could be applied to the account. 
RBS have provided us with a copy of the application form completed by Mrs P at the time of 
the sale. This shows that PPI was presented as optional and that Mrs P chose to take PPI by 
ticking the box to take it out.
Given that the PPI was sold during  a postal sale, I think its unlikely  that a representative  
would have provided a tailored recommendation to Mrs P about PPI. This means RBS didnt 
have to take steps to ensure that the PPI was suitable for Mrs P. So for example they didnt 
need to take into account  Mrs Ps existing means  of repayment (such as her employee 
benefits from work). 
However, they did have  to give her clear information  so that she could make  a proper 
decision about whether or not to take PPI out. In particular this would have been clear  
information about the costs, benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
I dont know if RBS did provide Mrs P with the information as they should have. However, 
this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether  
better information would  have  put her off taking the PPI out. And based on my understanding  
of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale, I dont think  better information would have 
put her off taking PPI out. This is because:
Ref: DRN70587682-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mrs Ps employee  sick pay. It would also 
have paid out if she lost her job.
-Mrs P didnt  appear to have  been  affected  by the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim.
-Mrs P could  have cancelled the PPI at any time without facing a financial penalty  if 
she no longer wanted  or needed  it.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs P at the 
time of the sale.
So I dont  think RBS mis-sold Mrs P this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against  The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7058768