K821x#15complaint
Ms C is unhappy with the quality of flooring used by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc
(RSA) when it replaced her floor after a leak. 
background
Ms C reported a leak from her radiator  in November 2016, which  she said had damaged the 
laminate flooring in her lounge. RSA accepted  her claim  and agreed  to replace the flooring.
That was done  in February  2017.  Almost immediately after that Ms C complained that the 
new flooring hadnt been  finished properly  the beading around the edges hadnt  been 
fitted. A couple  of weeks later she complained that the beading still wasnt  fitted  but also 
that the new flooring wasnt the same  quality as her old flooring.
RSA asked the flooring supplier to compare  the old and new flooring. It said the new flooring 
was 8mm thick  but nothing  about  the old flooring.
Ms C continued to complain and two visits were made in July. One report said flooring 
moisture was high in places  the other  said not. It was suggested any expansion of the 
flooring  which was making it lip (buckle slightly)  in places  was probably the result of water  
being spilt, rather  than any underlying damp  remaining after the original leak.
RSA wouldnt agree to replace the floor although it says it will ease the boards and install 
the beading.
Unhappy about  this Ms C brought  her complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  RSA had done  
enough to show  the flooring was replaced like for like, nor that it had taken steps  to confirm 
the floor was fully dry before the replacement  flooring was installed. She thought  RSA should 
pay Ms C a cash settlement so she could replace the floor with one of her choice, and pay 
£100 compensation for the way it had handled her claim.
RSA disagrees. It says it cant do more to confirm that the new floor was the same  quality as 
the old  because the old had been  removed before the fitter attended. It says the fitter 
thinks the floor was dry when he fitted  the floor, and the conflicting damp readings and 
lipping might  have  been caused by a number of things  spilt water  for example. It says the 
original leak only affected 25% of the floor, and the new damp  areas are some  way from the 
original leak. Its offered to re-check the readings.
Ms C says she was only given a small sample  of laminate when she chose the new flooring. 
She says the original  is still laid in the hall way so it and the underlay could be checked. She 
says she was told to take up the old flooring before  the new was fitted, and she uses 
laminate wipes  to clean it. She says that although  the visible damage to the original laminate 
floor was about 25%, she doesnt know if that means the rest of the sub floor was dry. Shes  
pointed out that all the visits to check the quality of the work  and flooring  have  been  carried  
by the business that supplied the new floor and carried out the fitting  and that one report,  
which was critical of the work, has gone missing. She says the new floor is chipped and 
peeling and not fit for purpose.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
Ref: DRN75820942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same  conclusions as the investigator did, for much the 
same reasons.
When RSA agreed to meet Ms Cs claim, it was agreeing to put her in the same position 
shed been in before the leak damaged her floor. Ive seen photos of the room before 
repairs, and it appears Ms C had a floor without significant damage (bar those areas  with 
water damage). She says shes had it for years without problem. Id expect RSA to replace 
the floor with something as resilient as her old flooring.
Ive looked at the photos of the newly laid floor and its clear  there  are some problems. The 
expansion gaps  around the edges are mostly  very small, although at a couple  of points they 
look so wide it almost  appears the fitter didnt finish the work properly, as it doesnt  look as 
though the gaps could  be covered by beading. Theres  also at least  one large  chip on a 
board seemingly in a run of boards where you wouldnt  expect damage to occur. 
Bearing these  photos in mind Ive thought carefully about whether RSA has done enough to 
show the flooring  is of an equivalent standard as that it replaced. I dont think it has  its 
simply sent a document giving details of the flooring used, with no reference  to the old. I 
dont think thats  good enough, given some of the old flooring is still in place in the home and 
could have been checked.
The buckling  Ms C is complaining about  could  be the result  of a number of things  that the 
floor was badly fitted or laid onto a damp base could be contributory  factors. So Ive also 
looked at the somewhat contradictory  reports on the level of moisture in the floor in July  
more than 6 months  after the leak. First, I must  say I agree with Ms C on her point about 
whos examined the floor recently. Although I think its fair for RSA to get the original 
company to look at the problem initially, using the same company  for all the checks  could 
undermine the level of independence that can be achieved. I think RSA should have had an 
independent report  on at least one occasion.  
Turning to the reports themselves, and in particular the ones from July, one says the 
moisture levels are acceptable  another says they are high. Its not altogether clear whether 
the high damp reading is near the site of the original leak or not (one report  says no the 
other yes). These reports are within a couple  of weeks of each other.  Theres also a 
suggestion that some of the moisture has been caused  by Ms C spilling  water  etc. But Im 
not persuaded that spilling some water would  cause the laminate to chip and/or expand  so 
much that it begins to lip around the room. I also agree with the investigator that its too late 
to measure damp levels now  the damage  is done  and no doubt any dampness that might 
have been present in the floor has dried out further  after a winter  of central heating.
Finally Ive taken note of what  RSA says about  whether  it checked  the floor was dry before 
replacing the flooring. It says with damage across 25% of the floor there was no need for 
dryers  or a certificate to say the floor was dry. The only evidence  its provided the floor was 
dry is a recollection from the fitter  but hes also said he cant recall  the job very well as it 
was a long time ago. So Im not placing much  weight on this recollection.
Ref: DRN75820943Overall Im not persuaded  RSA has returned Ms C to the position she was in before  the leak 
occurred. And I think its fair in the circumstances that it now pays Ms C a cash  settlement to 
have the floor and underlay replaced.  Ms C will need to give RSA a quote for this, and Id 
expect RSA to agree  a reasonable amount  taking into account that it will inevitably be 
more expensive for Ms C to get the work  done than it was for RSA.
I also think RSA should pay Ms C the £100 compensation our investigator  recommended. I 
can see shes had to do a lot of chasing  around to get her complaint looked  at, and although 
theres inevitably some inconvenience  when making an insurance claim, RSA hasnt been as 
helpful as it could have been.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7582094