K820x#14Complaint
Miss G complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont  refund her £386.88 after she 
bought tickets from a company that turned out to be fraudulent.  
Background
What Miss G says
Miss G says that in July 2017 she bought concert tickets costing £386.88 from a website Ill 
call X. She says she bought them by inputting her card details.  In December 2017 she 
received an email from the police saying they were investigating X and that she may not 
receive her tickets. Miss G says she called Barclays after she received this email in 
December 2017  and it told her to wait until after the concert and see if the tickets  arrived.  As 
the tickets werent  sent to Miss G, she called Barclays  in August 2018. Shes unhappy 
Barclays wont refund the cost of the tickets.
What Barclays say
Barclays says it has no record of a call from Miss G in December 2017  or January 2018, but 
when Miss G called  in August 2018  it followed the correct process in contacting  the receiving 
bank. As no funds remained in the account Barclays said it was unable  to refund the cost of 
the tickets to Miss G and it couldnt  do anything more for her.
Our investigation so far
Miss G was unhappy with Barclays decision and brought a complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  uphold Miss Gs complaint. He recognised  Miss G had been the victim of a 
scam but noted  Miss G had authorised the payment.  He thought  Barclays acted reasonably  
in not identifying that Miss G might be the victim of a scam because  the payment wasnt  
unusual or suspicious  considering Miss Gs normal account activity. The investigator clarified 
that Barclays records show  Miss G made  the payment to X by bank  transfer either online or 
using her mobile. Finally,  the investigator concluded Barclays acted  appropriately when Miss 
G reported the scam, but all funds were removed  from the receiving account on 12 July 
2017.
Miss G didnt  agree with the investigators opinion. She said that money was taken  from her 
fraudulently and she has evidence from the police to back  this up. As soon as she was 
aware of the scam Miss G contacted Barclays. As her money was taken  fraudulently Miss G 
thinks Barclays should refund the cost of the tickets. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Im required to take in to 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
Although Miss G says she bought the tickets using her card, Ive seen a mobile app payment 
audit which  shows she transferred the cost of the tickets to X through her mobile app. 
Ref: DRN74651162In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment 
in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily proof) 
for believing  that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice, which  a number of banks and trade associations  were involved 
in the development of.
This means  that there are circumstances where  a bank  should, in my opinion, fairly  and 
reasonably take additional  steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, 
or in some cases decline to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Did Barclays act fairly and reasonably in this case?
I recognise Miss G has been the victim of fraud,  but this doesnt  mean  Barclays  should 
refund the money shes lost. What I need to consider  is whether  I think Barclays should 
have done more to stop the transaction taking  place, or to recover  Miss Gs funds once it 
was told of the situation. In determining this Ive looked at Miss Gs bank statements to 
consider whether the payment she made to X was particularly unusual or out of character. 
Having done so, Ive concluded  that it wasnt. I say this because:
Ref: DRN74651163-The amount  Miss G transferred to X was a relatively small amount,  so unlikely to 
cause any suspicion. This is particularly so in light of Miss Gs previous account  and 
payment history.  In the six months  before the transfer Miss G made  payments  as 
follows:
Date Amount
06/02/17 £1,526.54
30/03/17 £191.90
17/04/17 £285.90
13/07/17 £219.96
The payments Ive referred  to above  were  card payments, but Miss G also made 
mobile or online transfers. There are many transfers  in to an out of another account  
for similar and higher amounts than the payment made to X. Miss G has also 
transferred smaller sums to various  individuals. So I cant conclude the payment to X 
was unusual or out of character given Miss Gs normal account and payment history. 
In these circumstances I wouldnt expect Barclays to take any further action before 
making the payment and I cant reasonably ask it to refund the amount Miss G 
transferred to X.
Recovery of funds
Ive also looked  at whether Barclays took the steps  it should  have  once it was aware  that the 
payment was made because Miss G was the victim of fraud.  Im satisfied Barclays  did. The 
receiving bank has told this service all the funds were  removed  on 12 July 2017. This means 
that even if Barclays  had called the receiving bank in December 2017 when Miss G says she 
first called, all the funds would still have been  removed so there  was nothing left to recover
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7465116