K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has refunded charges 
to his debt after he had been discharged from his insolvency trust deed. He thinks  the refund 
should be paid to him.
 
background
In 2009 Mr A owed  Barclaycard around  £17,000  and he had exceeded  his credit card limit. 
He incurred charges  and interest on his credit  card account in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of that account.  In 2012  Mr A was in default of those terms and conditions.  
He couldnt meet the repayments and Barclaycard closed the account in its records  and in 
2013 it sold it to a debt collection agency.
Barclaycard has since  identified that it failed  to send the statutory pre-notification of the 
charges. It has decided to refund them and has calculated that Mr A is entitled  to a refund of 
almost £10,000. As it had sold the debt, it made the refund to the debt owner.
Mr A entered an insolvency arrangement (trust deed)  in 2013. He was discharged  on 15 
December 2017  and the trustee was discharged (as a trustee) on 14 September  2018.
Barclaycard wrote to tell Mr A about the refund in December 2018.  Mr A says that because  
he has now been discharged Barclaycard was wrong to pay the refund to the debt owner. He 
thinks the repayment should have  been made directly to him.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclaycard had made a mistake. He said that the only reason 
Barclaycard had decided to make  a refund was not because the charges were wrong in 
themselves or that they shouldnt have been  applied  to Mr As account, but because it failed 
to give the correct notices. The charges formed part of Mr As debt so any refund  should be 
offset against the amount  still outstanding.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that as he had been  discharged from the debt it no longer existed 
and so the refund should be made direct to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I know Mr A will be 
disappointed, but I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for broadly the 
reasons given.
When Barclaycard debited the charges  to Mr As credit card account it was in arrears and he 
had failed to meet his contractual repayments. Barclaycards mistake was that it failed to 
send a Notice of Arrears each time he didnt make a repayment when it was due. I find Mr A 
still received monthly  credit card statements, which showed the balance of the account, the 
amount of the arrears and what his repayment  requirements were. So Im satisfied that Mr A 
knew that he was failing  to meet the contractual terms of his account and Barclaycard was 
entitled to apply interest and charges in accordance with those  terms. And because  of the 
Supreme Courts decision in 2009 the charges cant be challenged on the grounds that they 
are unfair.
Ref: DRN77095552The banks mistake  was in failing to send  the pre-notifications. Its on this basis  that its 
offered to refund the relevant charges to Mr As account. The charges themselves  were 
taken while  the debt was legitimately accruing. So just because  it made  this mistake, it 
doesnt mean that it had to refund the charges  any sooner  than it already did. And, as Ive 
explained, it is only something Barclaycard could do at some  point after the event.
Mr A suggests that if Barclaycard had refunded these charges sooner then his debt would  
have been smaller and he might not have  had to enter an insolvency arrangement.  But I find 
Mr A knew  that he was in breach of the terms of his account and the amount and extent of 
his debt. Ive also considered the position Mr A would have been  in if Barclaycard hadnt 
made the mistake  and had provided the notices. On balance, Im not persuaded that Mr A 
would have done anything differently.
Mr A says that he has been discharged  from his debts, before the refund was made. He 
suggests that because of this the debt no longer  exists and a refund cant be applied to it. As 
such, the refund should be paid directly to him.
Mr A is correct  in saying that he has been  discharged from his trust deed. But I find that this 
means he has been discharged from his liabilities  towards his debts covered by that deed. 
The debts themselves still exist. They arent erased by the discharge,  its just Mr As liability 
towards them has ended. Having checked  the amount  of the Barclaycard  debt that was 
outstanding, after the date of discharge, I find that it was in excess  of £11,000. On this basis, 
Im satisfied that Barclaycard hasnt made a mistake in applying  the refund to the 
outstanding debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7709555