K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr D bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. Mr D has said 
he applied  for this PPI policy in a meeting. Lloyds werent sure how the sale took place, but 
considered that it was in a meeting when looking into Mr Ds complaint. 
At the time,  Mr D has told us he was employed as a supervisor. Hes said he had a death  in 
service and redundancy entitlement.  And its likely he would have been entitled at least to 
statutory sick pay. Mr D has told us about some medical conditions that affected him after 
the sale of the PPI, but not at the time of taking  the PPI. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ds credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful accident,  sickness  or unemployment  claim.  At the time,  it cost no more than 
79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium  would continue to have to 
be paid during a successful  claim  and it did attract interest. 
If a claim was made on the life cover, the outstanding  balance  up to a maximum of £7,500 
would be cleared.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2005.
Mr Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ds representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr D about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr D and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN76204082The information Mr D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have been sent the adjudicators 
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN76204083I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ds case.  
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint.      
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds were required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ds complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D,     
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr D know  he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN76204084Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ds credit card application.  This form has a section titled  OPTIONAL  
FEATURES. In this section there are a series  of options for additional  products and services  
that can be added to the account. Next to the option for PPI, a tick has been placed. Mr D 
has also signed the overall agreement   so I think this indicates what  he wanted. 
Ive also noted  that in this section Mr D hasnt selected any of the other products or services. 
This suggests that he would have reasonably been  aware that he didnt have to take PPI to 
have the card. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr D knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr D has said that he cant remember if any advice was given during this sale. Lloyds  has 
said that it did give advice. Looking at what happened when Lloyds sold Mr D the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice.  
That means Lloyds  had to advise Mr D with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D. It seems  Mr D cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ds 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr D would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and limitations  
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr D had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Lloyds did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr D given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr D had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ds ability  to continue to meet 
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for his existing means which, it seems 
were quite  limited.
-Although Mr D says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr D. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ds employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
Ref: DRN76204085for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, the conditions  that Mr D 
has told us about  happened after the PPI policy was sold.  So I dont  think  that this 
would have affected Mr D being able to claim on the policy.  There  were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ds circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared his outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr D sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr D was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr D would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr D would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was. 
Im also satisfied Mr D would  have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr D 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mr D might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on 
the things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr D, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr D. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr D all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ds representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN76204086value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say 
 I think its unlikely a court  would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr D? To what extent  did Mr D suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr D. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr D suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr D would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr D, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr D has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr D would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr D says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr D had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded  he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ds circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
Ref: DRN76204087In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr D ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But,   
I accept that Lloyds didnt make  clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr D didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness during the 12 months  before the start date which  Mr D knew  about or 
should have known about at the start date or which Mr D had seen or arranged to 
see a doctor about during the 12 months immediately before the start date. This 
policy excluded claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions  for the first 12 
months after the start date; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr D pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr D from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr D didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions at the time of sale and he was in permanent  employment. 
So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr D 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
To make a disability claim, Mr D needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. It seems  unlikely he would  have  thought hed be able to make a 
successful claim  if he was still working,  whether that be in his normal job or any other job.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr D would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and he had limited other means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and redundancy. And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy 
in any event.  
Ref: DRN76204088Mr Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr D would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr D 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr D in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr D compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr D thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr D and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN76204089the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Daniel OShea 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7620408