K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  Plc closed his account without giving him any explanation.
background
Mr S lost his bank card and went into a branch of TSB to try and withdraw  some  money.  He 
asked for £500  but the bank said it could only give him £50 without his card. Mr S wasnt  
happy with this. Eventually the bank agreed to let him withdraw £500. It then wrote to him 
giving him notice it was going to close his bank account.
TSB said its terms  and conditions confirm that if it thinks its necessary to terminate its 
banking relationship with a customer it doesnt  have to give a reason. But it has to give him 
sufficient notice to open a new bank  account  elsewhere. And it said it did this.
Our investigator thought TSB wasnt under  an obligation to give Mr S a reason for closing his 
bank account.  So he said he couldnt  ask the bank to do anything  further about the closure.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He said his complaint wasnt about getting  his bank account re-
opened. But he wants an explanation from TSB about the way itd treated him. He didnt  
think the investigator had correctly stated the timeline of the incident in the bank.  He said he 
was calm  and non-threatening in the branch.  And he feels the bank has treated him with 
total disdain and hasnt  asked him for his version  of events. And hes concerned because it 
told him the incident was logged on his customer record but then denied this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr S feels about this so I know my decision will come as a 
disappointment to him. But Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for very 
similar reasons.
As our investigator explained, TSBs terms and conditions allow it to close  a customers  
account at any time without giving an explanation.  It has to give him sufficient notice to make  
alternative arrangements and I can see that its done that. I appreciate Mr S is very annoyed 
that TSB hasnt given  him any information  about its decision to withdraw its banking facilities. 
But its followed its terms and conditions so I cant  find its done  anything wrong. 
Mr S has given  us a full account and timeline of the incident in the bank that led to TSB 
closing his account. And Im aware he has the names of two witnesses who were  in the bank 
at the time. I dont  have any reason to doubt Mr Ss recollection of the incident  in the bank. 
But regardless of what happened in the branch TSB is entitled to close  his account without 
explanation. So we cant make it give him an explanation or contact him for his version of 
events.
Ref: DRN77797192Mr S is also annoyed that TSB told him itd logged an incident in its records and then denied 
this. TSB explained that it only records data that is factual  and it confirmed there werent any 
details of the incident on his customer notes or in the branch. In its letter to Mr S it told him it 
was closing his account following an incident in the branch. And it says its made a record  of 
the incident and the actions its taken. So it seems to me that its only recorded the fact that it 
closed his account following an incident  but it hasnt recorded any details of the incident. So I 
cant make  any finding  that TSB has given him contradictory information.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7779719