K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that a car she bought with finance  from Blue Motor  Finance Ltd was not fit 
for purpose.
background
Ms C bought a car in June  2018,  using a hire purchase agreement  from Blue Motor  Finance. 
She says shed had problems  with the car from the start, but the dealer  said there was 
nothing wrong  with it and the issues were down to wear  and tear. Ms C says that Blue Motor 
Finance is now saying she needs  to get an independent inspection carried  out, but she cant 
afford to do that. She would like the car repaired or replaced as she has young children and 
needs a reliable car.
Blue Motor  Finance says the supplying  dealer  has carried out repairs to the faults Ms C 
reported shortly after the sale,  although it was unable to find a fault with the clutch. It says 
Ms C declined the dealers offer to look at the further faults she reported  in December 2018. 
Blue Motor  Finance adds that, as it is over six months since  Ms C purchased the car, it is her 
responsibility to prove that the faults  with the car with there, or developing, at the point of 
sale.
Ms C subsequently paid for an independent inspection  of the car.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He wasnt  satisfied that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. He says he was persuaded by the MOT 
records and job cards that the car had an issue with its ball joints  prior to Ms Cs purchase 
and these issues had persisted, despite  the attempted  repairs. He considered  the 
independent report  supported these  findings and recommended  Ms C should  be entitled to 
reject the car.
Blue Motor  Finance responded to say, in summary,  that it had provided a timeline  to feed 
into the inspection  report. It added that Ms Cs car was four years  old at the date she 
purchased it, with a high mileage. It says that shed covered  over 8,000 miles since  then so 
the faults shed reported  did not impact  her usage of the car and, indeed, they were deemed  
as wear and tear. Blue Motor Finance  says the current faults (clutch,  handbrake, driver door) 
have not had repairs attempted and Ms C has not maintained the vehicle as she has failed 
to arrange an MOT.
Ms C forwarded the timeline to the independent  inspectors,  but disputed  some of Blue Motor 
Finances comments about fault reports,  garage  visits  and her own alleged  comments  about 
the car being  too big for her. She also explained that shed discovered the car had been 
sold as seen at an auction prior to her purchase  because it had previously belonged to a 
lease company. Ms C subsequently passed on the inspectors follow-up  response  to the 
adjudicator.
Our adjudicator did not change his opinion about  the fair and reasonable outcome for this 
complaint. He said the independent inspector still felt the issues  had been developing since  
the point of sale and the timeline of events shows they have been  ongoing. He added that 
there were multiple opportunities  to repair the faults, but none were successful. So he was 
still persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality and Ms C is entitled  to reject it.
Ref: DRN72682402Blue Motor  Finance responded to say that the inspector  said he was unable to give a 
definitive decision until a mutually agreed timeline was provided. It added  that the repairs  
carried out in July and August 2018 were all to replace items that would be considered wear 
and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage and they were  done so at no cost to Ms C. Blue 
Motor Finance says Ms C reported no further issues with the car until December 2018,  by 
which point shed covered over 5,500 miles. It then further replaced serviceable items free of 
charge and it was another 3,000 miles before the independent inspection  was carried out. At 
which point, Blue Motor Finance points out, the ball joints were likely to have worn out. It 
adds there  is no evidence to confirm there  was a fault reported,  or found, with the clutch, and 
Ms C would not have  been able to drive  over 8,000 miles had the clutch been faulty at the 
point of sale. Blue Motor  Finance suggested  a conference call between the parties to agree 
the timeline, or for the car to be inspected at the main dealership.
Ms C says shes  now had two new tyres fitted and the fitter commented on the amount of 
play on the ball joints and questioned whether theyd been properly fitted. Ms C wants Blue 
Motor Finance to refund  the cost of the tyres  and also her monthly payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for me to uphold this complaint, I need  to decide whether I consider  the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was sold and, if it wasnt,  whether Blue Motor Finance needs to 
do more than it has already done.
Satisfactory Quality
I accept what Blue Motor Finance says about the age and mileage of the car when it was 
bought, but there is a reasonable expectation that the components  of a car function without 
any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period of time.
Ms C says she noticed issues with the car the first time she drove it away from the forecourt 
and says she reported a knocking  sound, an issue with the clutch  pedal and juddering at 
speed. I acknowledge Blue Motor Finance says the first contact it had from Ms C was on 11 
July 2018, however its own contact notes say a repair was carried out as a gesture of 
goodwill due to customer complaint since  day 1 and the customer did have fault on the 
first day but this fault has been rectified.
In addition, although Blue Motor Finance is now saying theres no evidence  to confirm there 
was a fault reported, or found, with the clutch, again  its own contact notes contradict this. 
They say the supplying dealer called and advised they have looked into the fault with the 
clutch however they have  been unable to find a fault.
So Im satisfied Ms C reported  faults on the day she bought the car and that she reported an 
issue with the clutch.
Im also satisfied that the issue with the ball joint meant that Ms Cs car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I say that because:
Although Blue Motor  Finance says this is an issue of wear and tear, there  is still an 
expectation that components will last for a reasonable period of time after purchase;
Ref: DRN72682403There was clearly  a known issue with this component  before the sale as it failed the 
recent MOT  for the same reason;
Although the problem  was apparently rectified to enable  the car to subsequently pass 
the MOT,  I consider  it more likely than not that the issues Ms C reported were directly  
related;
A ball joint issue can be one of safety,  hence the MOT  failure, so I cant conclude the 
car was of satisfactory  quality when it was sold given this component  was not 
functioning as it should have been.
Remedial Actions
Blue Motor  Finance says, in summary, it fixed the problem with the ball joint and Ms C was 
able to cover  a significant number of miles before she reported any further issues. It says it 
next heard  from Ms C in December 2018 and, because this was now more than six months 
after shed purchased the car, it was her responsibility to prove that the faults on the car 
were present  at the point of sale.
As at least some  of the reported  issues  appeared  related to the original fault, I also need to 
consider whether I think the repairs that were carried  out fixed this problem or whether, at 
least in part, the latest faults  were related to those repairs.
I have read the independent report that was carried out in May 2019  and I consider it more 
likely than not that the issues that Ms C reported  in late 2018  were related to the initial ball 
joint problem. I say that because according to the report:
the vehicle does  display  severe play to both front ball joints ;
The vehicle requires  replacement front ball joints;
At this stage due to the repairs  / issues  investigated, it appears likely the faults are 
related to previous issues, which have been  under investigation but not successfully 
rectified.
However, the report also says:
The inspector  recommend(s) that the exact  timeline of mileages and dates is 
provided to confirm whether or not the current faults are related to previous repair  
attempts;
The selling agent most likely  will have liability depending on the timeline  of dates 
and mileages once  provided.
As Ms C had already provided the independent  inspector with her timeline, Blue Motor 
Finance submitted its own timeline  for consideration by the inspector.
The second  report  said:
We have  not seen  [documentation that confirms the repairs were completed  
successfully] and as such, it does lead to some doubt whether the repairs were 
completely successfully and the conditions under review now are deterioration which 
has developed  solely in the hire period.
Due to the previously  reported  conditions and the current  issues, there  is a similarity  
that cannot be overlooked or ignored,  and on this basis we came  to the view that the 
conditions are likely to be related.
Ref: DRN72682404But the report also said In this particular instance  there does appear to be a discrepancy in 
the suggested events, between the garage and [Ms C]. We can only recommend  that a 
combined timeline is provided which both parties  agree  to, hopefully supported by evidence .
I acknowledge Blue Motor Finance has offered to collaborate on a combined timeline  for the 
independent inspector, or for the car to be inspected at a main dealership. But I dont  
consider either of these options  is fair to Ms C:
She has now had the car for almost two years  and it is unfair  to prolong the situation 
any further when  she has lost confidence  in the car for herself and her two children;
It is evident that Blue Motor Finances timeline contradicts its own records  in part, 
and, in fact, support  Ms Cs record of events.  So it would be unfair to further delay an 
outcome for Ms C because of errors by Blue Motor Finance;
An independent inspection has already  been  carried out, so Im not persuaded that a 
further inspection  at the main dealer will serve any useful purpose.
For all the above  reasons,  I consider  a fair and reasonable  outcome is to allow Ms C to 
reject the car.
I acknowledge Ms C is now requesting a refund  for the cost of new tyres,  but as this is a 
foreseeable expense in the running  of any car, I dont find it reasonable that Blue Motor 
Finance should  be liable for this. Also, Ms C has had use of the car for almost two years and 
has covered a significant number of miles. As such,  it wouldnt be fair for her to have had 
such use without making any payments, so I cannot agree that Blue Motor  Finance should 
refund her monthly instalments. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor  Finance Ltd should:
End the hire purchase agreement with no further liability  to Ms C and ensure the 
credit agreement  is recorded as settled on her credit file;
Collect the car from Ms C at no cost to her;
Refund Ms Cs deposit  of £500 and pay 8% statutory  interest  from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement;
Pay Ms C £250  for the inconvenience (caused by multiple repair attempts);
Refund Ms C £192 for the cost of the independent report.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268240