K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained about  the increase in the cost of her private medical insurance policy 
held with BUPA Insurance Limited.
background
Ms B was a member of a group private  medical  insurance scheme  held with BUPA.  In 2016,  
she was sadly diagnosed with cancer  and began receiving treatment. Her policy  provided  
cover for this.
In 2017, BUPA decided to close the scheme. It offered the schemes  members  continued 
cover through switching  to a personal  private  medical insurance policy.
Ms B was unhappy  at the amount she was required  to pay under the new personal  policy  
and at the fact that the premium was subject to a No Claims  Discount (NCD).
BUPA offered to allow her to purchase  the policy as if she were a new customer and without 
any review of her medical history. This would mean her annual premium  was £1,538, which  
was lower than BUPAs initial quote  though  still higher  than she had been paying under the 
group scheme. It explained that it wasnt able to remove  the NCD. It set this offer out in a 
final response letter in September 2017.  Ms B accepted BUPAs offer.
When the policy was due to renew in September 2018, the premium had increased to 
£2,201. Ms B queried this with BUPA. It explained that the main  reason for the increase was 
that it had paid claims for Ms Bs ongoing  cancer treatment during the past twelve months 
and this had reduced her NCD.
Ms B complained to us. She said she hadnt  been  made aware on switching  to the personal 
policy in 2017  that her ongoing cancer  treatment would  count as new claims which would 
affect her NCD. She considered this was in direct contradiction  of BUPAs literature 
explaining the benefits of membership. She said shed therefore  been misled as to the likely 
future cost of her policy and was concerned that it would soon become unaffordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, 
BUPA had provided correct information  about  the NCD  scheme and hadnt said anything 
misleading. She was satisfied that BUPA had calculated Ms Bs renewal premium correctly.
Ms B didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  She considered she hadnt been  given full 
information which would have led her to understand that her ongoing treatment  would result  
in substantial increases in her premium each year. She thought BUPA  should  have  visited 
her home to discuss the intricacies of the policy face to face rather  than simply seek  to 
explain the policy over the telephone as it had done.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN76627742We generally take the view that it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter with which we dont normally interfere.
BUPA chooses to incorporate an NCD in its calculation of premiums.  It is entitled to do this. 
The way the scheme operates is that there is a scale of discounts  ranging from 0% to 70%.  
The member  moves  up the scale by one level if they make  no claim during the relevant 
preceding period but moves down  the scale by between one and three places if they do 
make a claim. The number of places they move  down  is determined by the total value of any 
claims which they make.   
During the relevant period, Ms B made  claims which exceeded £500 in total which  meant 
she moved three places  down the scale at renewal  in September 2018, thus reducing her 
NCD from 65% to 55%. Im satisfied BUPA applied the NCD correctly  when  it calculated  
Ms Bs renewal  premium.
BUPA has provided  us with fuller details of how it calculated  Ms Bs renewal  premium.  I cant 
share this information  with Ms B because it is commercially sensitive but I can assure  her 
that Ive checked  it and am satisfied that it calculated her premium fairly. The change in NCD 
accounted for the majority  of the increase in her premium.
Ms B thinks that her ongoing  cancer treatment doesnt constitute a new claim and so 
shouldnt be taken into account for the purposes  of calculating  her NCD. However, the 
explanation of the NCD scheme doesnt  indicate  that ongoing treatment is disregarded for 
the purposes of calculating  the NCD; it simply refers to the value of claims. I therefore  think  it 
reasonable to assume that any treatment  cost which BUPA is required to cover, whether it 
relates to a new condition or to ongoing  treatment for an existing condition,  constitutes a 
claim for the purposes of calculating the NCD.
Ms B thinks she wasnt adequately made  aware of the way the NCD operated when she took 
out the policy. However, Ms B spoke to BUPA on the telephone before taking out the policy. 
In the course  of that conversation the BUPA  representative explained  that the quoted  
premium included a 65% NCD and that the level of this NCD could change  each year 
depending on whether Ms B made any claims.  The BUPA  representative asked Ms B if she 
wanted any more  information about  the NCD but Ms B said she didnt and would read the 
policy documentation.
BUPA sent Ms B her policy documentation.  This included her membership certificate which  
fully described the operation of the NCD. Ms B had the opportunity  to read through  this and 
decide whether  to go ahead with the cover.
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means that BUPA didnt  have to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Ms B but it did have  to provide her with enough information to 
enable her to make  an informed decision as to whether to take out the policy. Im satisfied  
that Ms B was made adequately aware  of the NCD and how any claims she made might 
affect her future premium in advance of committing  to the policy. I dont think  BUPA  was 
required to visit Ms B to explain the policy or to highlight that, in her particular case, her 
ongoing cancer treatment was likely  to reduce her NCD in future years.  I dont think either  in 
the telephone call or in the documentation  BUPA implied that Ms Bs ongoing  cancer 
treatment would be disregarded for the purposes of calculating her NCD.
Ref: DRN76627743Ms B has suggested that BUPAs promotional literature is misleading. However, I have  
looked at the relevant examples she has provided and dont consider them  to be so. The 
literature refers to BUPAs cancer  cover but makes no claims about the cost of the policy.
It is very unfortunate that Ms B finds herself in her present situation. I understand her 
concern that her policy may become unaffordable and I sympathise. However, I cannot 
reasonably conclude that BUPA has done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662774