K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has made a complaint that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim she 
and her late husband, Mr O, made  on their travel insurance policy.  Mrs K is also the 
representative of the estate of the late Mr O. 
background
Mr O became very unwell whilst on holiday and was admitted to intensive care. Mrs K 
contacted IPA for assistance. IPA contacted Mr Os doctor in the UK to access his medical 
records. They declined to cover the claim as they said Mr O hadnt declared  pre-existing 
medical conditions.  Mr O was repatriated to the UK and sadly  passed away shortly after his 
return.
Mrs K and Mr O made a complaint. IPA sent a final response letter  in November  2017  saying 
there was no cover  for pre-existing medical conditions that hadnt been  declared or accepted 
by the insurer.  They  explained that Mr O had received treatment within the last two years 
and was taking  medication. So they stood by their decision to decline the claim.  
Our adjudicator looked into what happened. Initially she upheld the complaint on the basis 
that IPA hadnt  been able to demonstrate what question Mr O and Mrs K were asked as part 
of the sales process.  She also explained  that Mr O hadnt been diagnosed with a condition.  
IPA provided more information and pointed out that Mr O and Mrs K had obtained quotes for 
policies including  the medical conditions  before  deciding to take out this policy  which 
excluded them. 
The adjudicator changed her thoughts about the complaint on the basis  of the further 
information, which included a telephone  sales  script containing the question which would 
have also appeared as part of the online sales process. She also considered  the relevant 
legislation and decided  that Mrs Ks failure to declare  her condition had been reckless.  So 
she thought it was fair for IPA to decline the claim.  
Mrs K, via her representatives,  didnt  agree  and asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
complaint. In summary she said that Mr O had been given a clean bill of health to travel  and 
hadnt been diagnosed  with any condition. She said IPA hadnt shown that a clear question  
was asked and that it was for IPA to show that they wouldnt have offered the policy  had it 
not been for the misrepresentation. 
I asked IPA to clarify how they had treated the misrepresentation under the relevant 
legislation. They replied  to say they thought this was a deliberate act but were prepared  to 
refund the premiums.  I asked an investigator to contact Mrs Ks representatives to explain 
this and invite their comments on the post-sale documentation. 
They said that the questions at the point of sale werent clear which  is why Mrs K accepted  a 
quote with no medical  declarations and theres no evidence that what happened  to Mr O was 
due to a pre-existing  condition. The representative  also said that Mrs K felt IPA had been 
aggressive and unsympathetic towards  her. 
So I need to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN71703622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant law, industry rules  and guidelines
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Representations and Disclosure)  Act 2012 CIDRA before 
entering into a contract of insurance the consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to the insurer.
Whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is to 
be determined in the light of the all relevant circumstances. CIDRA gives examples  of things 
which may need to be taken into account  in making  a determination about whether a 
consumer took reasonable  care. If the consumer fails to take reasonable care in accordance 
with the provisions of CIDRA and the insurer has a remedy, this is deemed  to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA a qualifying  misrepresentation can be either deliberate or reckless,  or 
careless. If a qualifying misrepresentation is not deliberate or reckless, it is classified as 
careless.
The categorisation of reckless  or careless is important because, as far as is relevant here,  it 
entitles the insurer  to reach a different outcome in the event of a claim.  It is for the insurer  to 
show that a qualifying misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that where the sale is non-advised, as it is in 
this case, it isnt IPAs  responsibility to make sure the policy  was right for Mrs K and Mr O. 
However, they do need to be provided  with enough  information to decide if the policy was 
right for her. 
the medical questions  asked
This particular policy has been discontinued and so IPA cant  provide the screen  shots from 
the sales process. In their final response  letter IPA said Mrs K would have  been  asked: 
Do you require cover for any pre-existing medical conditions?
IPA says Mrs K would have been  presented with the options  yes and no. Selecting yes 
would take her to the medical screening questions. Selecting no would let her carry on with 
the purchasing  process. 
Where the evidence isnt clear I need  to decide what is most likely to have happened.  Based 
on the evidence  Ive seen in this case Im satisfied it is most likely that a clear  question was 
asked. 
I think it is most likely  that as part of the online sales process Mrs K wouldve been asked to 
confirm whether or not she wanted to cover any pre-existing  medical conditions.  I think thats 
supported by the data captured during the sales process which differs  significantly 
depending on whether yes or no is answered to the question  about pre-existing conditions. 
Ref: DRN71703623The sales  script from the telephone sales process  asked the consumer to confirm  that no 
insured person has symptoms for which  they are awaiting investigation/consultation or are 
awaiting results of investigations, where the underlying cause  has not been established. 
Where pre-existing conditions are declared  the consumer is then asked: 
Do you, or any other insured person to be covered under this policy have  any past 
medical condition  that occurred  during the last two years: 
Has resulted in symptoms
Or for which: 
Prescribed medication 
Any form of treatment
Medical consultation 
Investigation or follow-up/check up
Has been required  or received?
As these  issues were central  to Mr Os eligibility  for the policy, and the type of cover  IPA 
could offer, it seems  unlikely to me that there would be a significant  difference between  the 
online questions and the telephone process, particularly bearing in mind  the information Ive 
seen from the quotations.   
Im satisfied it is most  likely that Mrs K was asked if she wanted  cover for pre-existing 
conditions and that if she had answered  yes she was then asked  a similar more detailed 
question in relation to past medical  conditions within the last two years. If she answered no 
then I dont think she was required to complete the medical screening questions. 
was there  a qualifying  mis-representation?
Ive gone on to consider whether Mrs K took reasonable care when  saying that Mr O didnt 
need cover  for pre-existing medical  conditions. 
The policy was taken  out in March 2017 for a long haul trip in May 2017. Mr O was admitted 
to hospital in late 2016 and in February 2017 with a working  diagnosis  of aspergillosis  (a 
condition which can affect the lungs and can cause breathing difficulties).  He was prescribed 
three medications following his discharge  from hospital according to his medical records. All 
of this happened within two years of the policy start date and very shortly before the policy 
was bought. 
I think given that Mr O had been admitted to hospital  twice within  a short  space of time and 
didnt have a firm diagnosis for his symptoms  it would have been reasonable for Mrs K to 
answer the question  about pre-existing medical conditions yes.
Two of the quotes she obtained disclosed previous conditions, including  aspergillosis. This 
prompted her to provide a lot of more detail about  conditions. Mrs K says that she followed  
the questioning pathway but she says, on realising  none of the medical  conditions  applied, 
she decided on the policy that didnt include cover  for pre-existing conditions. 
Ref: DRN71703624I dont find this argument very persuasive  in the circumstances of this case. The three 
quotes were taken out in very short space  of time,  minutes apart. And, for the reasons Ive 
already explained, I think  Mrs K was most likely  to have been asked about  conditions where 
Mr O had been prescribed medication, experienced treatment, had a consultation or been in 
investigated as part of that process.  It seems likely to me thats what  led her to generate the 
two quotes which she didnt proceed with. And, if she wasnt sure,  it was her responsibility to 
contact the insurer  to clarify what she should say. All of this leads me to the conclusion  it 
isnt unreasonable for IPA to say Mrs K didnt take reasonable  care and she acted 
deliberately or recklessly  when answering  the question/s she was asked.  
In any event, Ive also taken into account  the post-sale documentation which has a section 
entitled, important  requirement applying to your policy. In that section it sets out the 
significant and unusual exclusions or limitations.  It says: 
There is no cover for any claims arising  directly or indirectly as a result of any 
pre-existing medical conditions unless you have declared ALL pre-existing 
medical conditions  to us (and any subsequent changes  in health or 
medication) and we have written to you accepted them for insurance
There is no cover provided by this policy, if on the commencement of cover 
under this policy or when booking a trip, you are having or waiting to have  any 
medical tests or investigation, or are waiting for the results  of any test or 
investigations, into any undiagnosed  medical condition  or symptoms for which 
the underlying  cause  has not been diagnosed. This is regardless of how 
significant the issue for which  you have been referred for further investigation  
was considered to be by the medical  practitioner consulted
Mrs K was obviously  concerned about her husbands state of health  at the time she took out 
the policy as she generated quotes  about  various  conditions. And it was up to her to decide  
if the policy was right for them.  So, even if this information wasnt drawn to her attention  
during the sales  process, I think she was provided  with enough information in the policy 
documents and that it would have been clear to her that her husbands recent medical  
history ought to be discussed  further  with the insurer. She would have been entitled to 
cancel the policy within the cooling off period and receive a full refund of the premium  shed 
paid. 
Finally, Im not persuaded  by the argument that theres no medical evidence connecting the 
pre-existing conditions to Mr Os death.  He had a working diagnosis of aspergillosis and died 
of bronchopneumonia and adult respiratory distress syndrome. So I dont think its 
unreasonable for IPA to conclude theres  a connection between the two, particularly given 
Mr Os recent medical history. The policy excludes claims relating to directly  or indirectly to 
pre-existing medical conditions unless theyd been declared and accepted by the insurer. 
IPA has agreed to refund the premiums  which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. But 
I dont think they need  to pay the claim. I appreciate  that Mrs K felt IPA were aggressive  and 
didnt want to pay the claim. But I think  they had legitimate concerns about how the policy  
was taken out and they were entitled to ask reasonable questions of her. I understand that 
this came at an already  very difficult time for Mrs K but I dont think  IPA treated her unfairly. 
Ref: DRN71703625my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7170362