K820x#14complaint
Ms C says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms C bought the policy in February 2000, sometime after taking out a mortgage. The sale 
took place at the same time as Ms C was arranging  to have  that mortgage transferred  into 
her sole name. It looks like she arranged the mortgage transfer and applied for the PPI 
policy in a branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Ms C for accident and sickness  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  around £350  a month  towards Ms Cs mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £9.30  a month.  
At the time,  Ms C was employed as a sales  office  assistant. She was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  her mortgage should  she be unable to 
work.  Ms C has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the new mortgage account started in February 
2000 and closed in December 2006  when the mortgage was redeemed. 
Ms Cs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Cs representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Ms C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms C and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN74271392The information Ms C received  was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in February 2000  before  the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN74271393I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Cs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Ms Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Ms C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether YBS gave  Ms C sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms C and YBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN74271394did Ms C know she had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  From  what Ive seen,  Im 
satisfied this was done. Ive seen  that Ms C had already been operating a mortgage for 
some time without PPI, prior to it be transferred into her sole name. So it would have been 
obvious to her, in my view,  that taking out the PPI wasnt compulsory and that she 
therefore had a choice. She also filled out a specific  form which  was clearly entitled 
MORTGAGE PAYMENT INSURANCE   New Policy  Application  Form. 
The application was filled out by hand  and on the form Ms C made  a specific choice about 
the type and level of cover she wanted  as well as the amount of time shed be prepared to 
wait for the policy to make a payment after first making a claim.  Ms C then signed  the PPI 
application form, which further suggests  she knew was applying for the cover. 
Ive also kept in mind  that as the policy payments  didnt start until three months later,  whilst 
this may have encouraged her to take out the cover, it would have been open to her to 
cancel it once the free period had ended.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms C knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says that advice wasnt provided  during this sale. Ive seen that Ms C hasnt 
commented on that but from what  Ive seen about  the sale and based  on my knowledge of 
similar sales, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms C. Instead, it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her to make an informed choice  
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms C was given a broad description  of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was unable  
to work through accident or sickness) and of the approximate costs.  Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Ms C would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. And as Ive said,  
Ive seen that Ms C had specified the level of benefit she wanted  when she completed the 
PPI application  form. 
Whilst the evidence  from the time of sale suggests that YBS gave Ms C details about the 
likely monthly  benefit, it doesnt  tell us whether YBS gave  sufficient information about the 
actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations  before  Ms C agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think YBS gave Ms C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN74271395Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Cs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Cs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Cs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms C has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that YBS ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Ms C? To what extent did Ms C suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Ms C. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Ms C would have still 
taken out the policy,  had YBS done  things properly. 
Ms C says she would  not have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms C had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of her being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms C chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms C thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms C has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Ms C was given about benefit  was clear as I said earlier on. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the cost and the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Ref: DRN74271396Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms C knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear YBS told her the exact premium at the point she applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  Ms C was told the cost before the policy started as it 
was set out in a policy confirmation letter sent to her. And she paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with her expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible she might have  raised  that with YBS at the time or reconsidered her 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Ms C would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or disease  that Ms C knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy or which  she 
received treatment for or was referred  for treatment  within 12 months of the cover  
under the policy  starting; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms C pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms C from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Ms Cs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Ms C was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think she had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms C would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
YBS may not have  told Ms C that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but she 
didnt have means to fall back  on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms C would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms C be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Ref: DRN74271397Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms C would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms C would have taken  out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Cs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms C would not have bought the PPI She bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms C 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms C believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Ms C compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms C thinks YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
Ref: DRN74271398provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Ms C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Cs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find YBS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Ms C and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that YBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms C in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7427139