K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr G payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage that started 
in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  22 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist such as dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr G has said that it wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional  or how you could opt out of 
taking PPI. However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was 
reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where  someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong,  fairness  requires that the person making the 
allegation should present  evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone  to prove they didnt do something  wrong, especially when it was such  a 
long time ago. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without it 
being clear that it was optional. 
Mr G has said that he was unemployed  for six months in 2001,  and that he would have 
claimed if the benefits had been made clear. However he has also acknowledged that Lloyds 
did write to him a year after the start of the PPI, to tell him that the free period would be 
ending, so it appears that he was at least aware of the policy in 1998 (though  he says Lloyds 
didnt make clear what he should do to cancel the PPI, and it appears he didnt take steps to 
contact the bank to cancel  it). However,  I dont think this information affects what  I am 
looking at here, which  is whether  the PPI was mis-sold when he first agreed to take it. I dont 
know whether Mr G has looked into making a backdated claim,  but it might  be worth him 
finding out if that is possible. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Ref: DRN72156622Lloyds has assessed Mr Gs complaint as though it made a recommendation of the PPI 
to him. I think this is fair, as it means  it had a higher standard  to reach during  the sales  
process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Gs particular circumstances. 
But it looks to me as though any recommendation would have been a suitable one, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs situation at the time. Its likely Mr G was eligible for 
the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr G received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when he would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage. This all would have put Mr G in a more secure position, if hed eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest he couldnt afford  the PPI when  he took it out. So I think  the PPI would have 
been potentially  useful, and so any recommendation would have been suitable.  
 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether or not Mr G took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr G would have  been  affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7215662