K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  that Your Money Management Ltd (YMM) delayed  the payment 
of their successful payment protection insurance  (PPI) refund.
background 
Mrs and Mrs N instructed  YMM to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI. The lender upheld  the 
claim on 21 August 2018, writing to both YMM  and Mr and Mrs N directly with their offer.
Mr and Mrs N signed the acceptance form attached to the offer and sent it to YMM. They 
called YMM in September as they hadnt received the payment from the lender. YMM  
explained they hadnt received the form and that Mr and Mrs N would need  to ask the lender 
for another.
Mr N was unhappy that he spent the next four months chasing the lender for a new 
acceptance form so he could receive  the refund. He felt YMM didnt offer him any assistance 
during this time so felt the outstanding  fee should  be reduced.  So, he paid YMM part of their 
total success fee, leaving £448.50 outstanding.
YMM responded saying  they didnt receive the signed acceptance form. They  said a lender 
will only send  a new form when the customer asks so they were unable to help him. 
Because of this, they felt theyd done  nothing wrong  and the full fee remained payable.  Mr N 
was unhappy  with this so he referred  his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld  it. They  felt it would  be unfair to hold 
YMM accountable for the delay as it was the lender  that didnt provide the replacement form. 
But, they felt YMMs terms of engagement  werent clear when explaining the fee for their 
service so recommended YMM pay £50 to recognise this.
Both YMM and Mr N rejected this recommendation. YMM felt the fee information was clear. 
Mr N felt the compensation  should be increased  as he spent  time and effort  chasing YMM 
and the lender. As both parties disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Delays
Mr N cant provide evidence that shows he sent the acceptance form to YMM. However, 
YMM agree Mr N called them to ask whether  theyd  received it. I think its reasonable for me 
to assume Mr N sent the letter  to YMM as I dont think  hed call them  about this otherwise.
But, I also dont have  evidence to show YMM ever received the letter. In the call, they said 
they didnt receive  it and that another would need  to be requested from the Lender.  
So, Im unable to agree that their actions  led to the loss of the letter. Ive read the lenders  
offer lender  which asks Mr and Mrs N to return the acceptance form directly. As YMM  was 
acting for Mr and Mrs N it makes logical sense to send  this form to them. 
Ref: DRN73435562YMM advised they were  unable to chase a replacement  form on Mr and Mrs Ns behalf  as 
the lender would only re-send it following a customers request. Ive seen  no evidence that 
shows the lender  takes this stance. As the lender  upheld the claim with YMM acting as Mr 
and Mrs Ns representatives,  sending  them  a copy of the offer letter,  I cant  see why only Mr 
or Mrs N could  request  a new acceptance  form.
But, I dont YMM taking this stance impacted Mr and Mrs N. I can see they told YMM on 16 
November that theyd requested an acceptance  form from the lender as YMM  told them  to 
do in September.  This was after YMM  had chased  them for payment of their success fee. Mr 
and Mrs N hadnt chased YMM for any further  assistance up to this point. 
Ive seen YMM then called the lender to ask them when that form should be with Mr and Mrs 
N before  e-mailing  them explaining it should  be delivered by 20 November. But, I think the e-
mail address YMM used  was incorrect as there seems to be a spelling mistake  so I dont 
think Mr and Mrs N received  this. Even  if the e-mail wasnt received, I think  YMM acted  on 
Mr and Mrs Ns information and assisted  them  as Id expect as their representative.
Ive seen YMM chased the lender for another update  on 31 January  2019 where  the lender 
confirmed the form was received on 31 December 2018. They also confirmed the payment 
had been processed.
So, I think YMM have  in fact assisted Mr and Mrs N during their efforts  to have another 
acceptance form sent out. Although  they didnt request the form on Mr and Mrs Ns behalf, 
their advice resulted  in a new form being received. They  chased  the lender  when  Mr and Mrs 
N explained they were having difficulties receiving another  as Id expect.
So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold YMM responsible for any delays caused by the 
lender not sending the form or Mr and Mrs N not sending the form back. So, I dont think 
they need to do anything  further in relation to this part of the complaint.
Fee information
Ive looked at the fee information YMM included in their terms and compared them  to the 
regulators expectations at the time. The regulator required companies to provide fee 
examples that cover  the following scenarios:
-All compensation is paid as cash
-Compensation includes a cash settlement and a future loan instalment reduction
-Compensation is used to offset arrears a consumer  has on a credit or loan.
YMMs terms  dont  provide all of these  working examples, so dont comply  with the 
regulators requirements. I also dont  think the fee information that is included is set out 
clearly within  the terms. The fee percentage is explained in the definitions section of the 
terms but Id expect the fee to be explained in a separate section entirely.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs N were made reasonably aware  of what the fees for a 
successful claim  would be. This doesnt affect  the fact that Mr and Mrs N signed the terms 
and letter of authority agreeing to the fee. It also doesnt affect the fact YMM completed the 
work leading  to the successful refund. So, YMM are still entitled  to charge the full fee. But, I 
think they should pay Mr and Mrs N £50 to recognise the fee information they provided fell 
below the standard Id expect.
Ref: DRN73435563my decision
For the reasons  explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Your  Money  Management Ltd 
must pay £50 to recognise the trouble and upset Mr N experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2018.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7343556