K821x#15complaint
Mrs E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs E took out in May 2004.
The PPI was sold to Mrs E by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt respond so the complaint  has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint and I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy document  I think wouldve  been in use at the time of the sale.  It was 
a requirement within  this policy for Mrs E to be working a minimum of 16 hours per week if 
she wanted to claim  under the accident, sickness and unemployment  benefits.  These  were  
the main benefits  of the policy.
I think this term given  in the policy wouldve mattered to Mrs E as shes told us she was not 
working at the time of the sale. Mrs E has been clear  to our service  that this was the case but 
at some point there was some conflicting  information  about this that was provided to FICL. 
So our service has gone back and clarified with Mrs E what her employment status was at 
the time of sale. She has again  reiterated  that she was not employed and provided further 
information about this detailing her circumstances (she says she was employed after the 
date of sale).  So on balance after reading her latest submission, I think I can rely on what 
she has said. And I think its unlikely Mrs E would have much  documentary evidence of her 
employment status from such a long time ago. 
This means  Mrs E was most likely  not able to claim under  the accident, sickness  or 
unemployment sections  of the policy, which were  the main benefits. And if Mrs E had 
known this, I dont  think she wouldve bought  the policy. I havent seen enough to suggest  
she was given clear  information  on this. So, I think Mrs E has lost out because of what  FICL 
did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs E in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs E would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN70544032So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs E owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs E would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs E would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs E 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs E paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs E 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs E what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   
Mrs E a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7054403