K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 1997. Mr T says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr T recalls applying  for the credit card and being sold the PPI during a meeting in a 
branch. Barclays say the PPI was sold to Mr T during a telephone conversation after the 
credit card account  was set up.
Ive seen a copy  of the original application for the credit card. The application form is of a 
type that would have  been mailed to Mr T for him to complete and return to Barclays. 
The application form has Mr Ts name and address printed on it but all other areas have 
been completed by hand. So Im satisfied that Mr T applied  for the credit card by post.      
I note the application  is dated  8 March 1997.
The credit  card application form contains  no mention of PPI so the PPI could not have 
been added  at the same time as Mr T completed  the application for the credit card.
The credit  card account was opened  on 17 March 1997, but the PPI policy was not sold 
to Mr T until 2 April 1997. This means that Mr T was sold the PPI after the credit  card 
application had been approved and the account  opened.
So the card was issued to Mr T without PPI. But he wouldve needed to call Barclays to 
activate it. Its reasonable to think Barclays wouldve asked him whether he wanted PPI 
during that telephone call. And as he had already received the card without PPI I think  
hed have known  he didnt have to buy it. So taking  everything  Ive seen into account        
I think it is most likely  Barclays  made it clear that Mr T didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this after so 
many years.   
Barclays has said it would have recommended the PPI to Mr T. In that case it had to 
check that the PPI was right for him and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example Mr T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover.  He was also eligible for the cover so he could have made  a 
claim on the policy if hed needed  to.
Mr Ts employer wouldve paid him a good level of sick pay if he became too unwell to 
work. But the PPI policy  could have paid Mr T a monthly benefit in addition  to any sick 
pay. And it could  have  paid the benefit for up to 12 months which is likely longer than   
Mr Ts full sick pay wouldve lasted. So I still think Mr T couldve found the policy  useful if 
he became too unwell to work,  particularly  if he couldnt work  for a prolonged period. 
Ref: DRN73090822Mr T told us he had some savings and other resources he could rely on but has not been 
able to give us any details of these. But the PPI would mean that Mr T didnt have to use 
his savings to pay his credit card if he became  too unwell or lost his job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
In summary  I think its most likely  that Barclays made Mr T aware  the PPI was optional and 
he chose to buy it. I think the policy was right for him, and I dont think  any clearer 
information about the policy wouldve caused Mr T to change his mind and not take the 
policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont make any award against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7309082