K822xcomplaint
Mr Fs complaint is about a claim he made  on his home insurance policy for subsidence 
damage to his home in 2018.  He is unhappy  with the delays  in dealing with the investigation 
of the claim and that it was declined. 
The policy is underwritten by Aviva  Insurance Limited and it is responsible for dealing with 
Mr Fs claim and this complaint.
background 
In August  2018  Mr F contacted Aviva because cracks had appeared in the walls of the 
extension to his bungalow. Aviva sent out a firm of loss adjusters  to inspect the damage. It 
found that the pattern  and type of cracking  suggested that the damage had resulted from 
subsidence of the site. It said the most likely  cause  of the subsidence was the shrinkage of 
underlying soils due to seasonal variations in moisture  content,  which  will have been 
exacerbated by the moisture extracted by nearby vegetation. It was detailed  that there were 
two trees  and a hedge  close enough to have an effect on the moisture levels of the soil 
beneath the foundations.  
The loss adjuster ordered some investigations  into the ground conditions under Mr Fs 
home. These were  done in September 2018. It was shown that Mr Fs home was built on 
shrinkable clay and that clay was dehydrated. This analysis was based  on samples taken at 
0.8m and 1.6m below ground level. The dehydration of the clay meant  it had reduced in 
volume and caused  the property to move  downwards. Tree and shrub  roots were also found 
in samples taken between 0.8m and 2m below ground level.  The report  also detailed  the 
type and size of the foundations; a strip foundation of 0.8m depth.
It was not until December 2018 that Aviva communicated its findings  and decision to Mr F. It 
declined the claim. It said industry guidelines at the time the extension  was built (in early 
2015) required  it to have foundations of at least  0.9m  deep  given  the type of soil present  and 
if the trees and shrubs in the vicinity were taken account of, the foundation depth should 
have been increased to 1.6m. 
Aviva said that its engineer was of the opinion that had the extension  been built with 
foundations of the correct depth the damage would  not have occurred. As the foundations 
were shallower than 0.9m, it said the claim was defeated by the faulty design and poor 
workmanship exclusion.
Mr F was not happy with that decision and raised  concerns with Aviva.  It rejected the 
complaint as it was satisfied its decision  to decline the claim was correct.
Mr F had his own investigation into the foundations  conducted, including  photographic 
evidence, which showed the foundations were deeper than the 0.9m Aviva had referred to 
being required. He informed Aviva  of this and raised  concerns  about inconsistencies in the 
ground conditions  report. Aviva  didnt ask Mr F for a copy  of the new evidence he had told it 
he had, didnt comment on the inconsistencies Mr F believed he had found and told him he 
would need to contact this service  if he wanted to pursue the matter further. So Mr F referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Fs complaint and proposed  that it be upheld.  She 
wasnt persuaded that the foundations being  shallower than building  regulations  required 
Ref: DRN72456122was material to the damage caused  to Mr Fs home. This was because the ground 
investigations had found tree roots down to 2m, far deeper than the foundations  had needed  
to be. So she was satisfied the ground  beneath the foundations would have been 
desiccated, whether they were 0.8m or 0.9m deep.  Therefore,  she recommended that Aviva  
reconsider the claim without applying the exclusion it had.
Aviva didnt accept the investigators conclusion. It pointed out the extension  was only four 
years old when it became  damaged. It also highlighted that although  there were roots, the 
ground was only desiccated down to 1.6m. As such, Aviva  maintained  that had the 
foundations been built adequately, the property  wouldnt  have been damaged. 
As agreement couldnt be reached between the parties, the complaint was passed to me for 
consideration. 
relevant building regulations
Building regulations  requires  that the building shall be constructed so that ground movement 
caused by- (a) swelling,  shrinking or freezing of the subsoil  will not impair the stability of 
any part of the building.
In clay soils subject to volume change on drying  (shrinkable clays, with Modified Plasticity  
Index greater than or equal to 10%) , strip foundations should  be taken to a depth where 
anticipated ground movements will not impair the stability of any part of the building  taking 
due consideration of the influence of vegetation  and trees on the ground. The depth to the 
underside of foundations  on clay soils should  not be less than 0.75m on low shrinkage  clay 
soils, 0.9m  on medium shrinkage clays soils and 1.0m on high shrinkage clay soils,  although  
these depths may need to be increased  in order to transfer the loading  onto satisfactory  
ground, or where  there are trees nearby.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 24 January  2020.  In that decision I set out 
my conclusion and reasons for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt.
Aviva  has said that it considers the foundations for Mr Fs extension were inadequate. There 
is a dispute about the depth of the foundations in this case   Aviva says they are 0.8m  deep 
and Mr F says his inspection show them to be over 0.9m deep.  Building regulations  state 
that for the type of clay Mr Fs home  is built on the foundations should be a minimum of 0.9m  
deep. So the 100mm of foundation depth could,  in theory, make a difference in the outcome 
of this complaint.  However, taking all of the evidence in this case into account, I dont think it 
does. I will explain  why.
As detailed  above,  whilst there is a minimum foundation depth required  under  building 
regulations for Mr Fs extension which, if his investigations are right,  the foundations comply 
with, that isnt the end to the matter. Consideration also needs to be given to any other 
influencing factors on the site. In the case of shrinkable clay that includes trees and shrubs  
that are nearby.  In 2014 when the extension was built,  assessment should have been done 
of the amount of water the two nearby trees and hedge would need once they were mature. 
The effect of that water  consumption on the underlying soil then needed to be factored into 
the design of the foundations.  Whilst  the hedge, if kept at its existing height might not need 
more water as time progressed, it is likely  the two trees  would. 
Aviva, using  commonly accepted industry  guidance, has calculated the foundations needed 
to be 1.6m  deep  to cope with the effect of the trees and hedges. It hasnt provided a copy of 
Ref: DRN72456123its calculation, but given there were two trees and a large hedge within a metre  or two of the 
side of the extension, I am inclined to accept  that a significantly deeper foundation depth 
would have been needed. That said, Aviva  should  provide a copy of its assessment and 
calculation in response to this provisional decision.
Our investigator found that the depth  of the foundation would not have been relevant  
because there were roots at 2m below ground  level. Aviva  in response said that the 
desiccation only went 1.6m down. I cant agree with either of these statements.
The ground investigations tested the moisture content of the soil at 0.8m  and 1.6m. Both 
samples were desiccated.  No deeper  samples were tested, so it is inaccurate to say the 
desiccation only reached down to the depth  the foundation should  have  been  dug. I also find 
it unlikely that, given there were roots down to 2m, and possibly deeper,  the soil below 1.6m  
was not desiccated albeit we dont  know to what degree.
I have considered the fact that there were roots in the soil sample from 0.8m  depth  to the 
end of the sample taken at 2m. Our investigator  considered that the presence of roots 
beneath the correct depth the foundations should  have reached means that the property  
would still have subsided.  Avivas engineer disagreed with this conclusion. 
Buildings are designed to cope with a certain amount of ground  movement because ground 
conditions will vary throughout the year. During  the summer soils will have a lower  water 
content and possibly shrink a little and during the winter water  content  will increase causing 
the soil to recover to its full volume  this is called cyclical movement and doesnt normally  
cause damage.  It is only when the degree  of movement exceeds the buildings  ability to cope 
that damage becomes apparent.
In this case it has been evidenced there were tree and shrub roots from 0.8m  down that 
were removing water from the soil. If all (or most) of those roots were below the foundations, 
there could  be a significant amount  of dehydrated soil, resulting in movement, beneath the 
foundations. The deeper the foundation  was built, the less soil there would be beneath it 
being influenced by the roots.  Avivas engineer has said that he doesnt think there  would 
have been movement if the much  deeper  foundations  had been  built. None of the evidence  I 
have seen shows the engineers conclusion is wrong.
Overall, I can only conclude  that the foundations  on Mr Fs extension  dont appear to have 
been designed to deal with the effect of the trees  and hedge that were close to it, which they 
should have been. This would be considered poor design. I am also persuaded that the poor 
design did allow damage to occur  that would otherwise not have. As such,  I dont consider 
Aviva inappropriately applied the exclusion for poor workmanship or faulty  design  to defeat 
the claim. 
Aviva didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Mr F didnt  accept my conclusions. He said some  of the information about vegetation was 
incorrect and he considers the insurer  already had it in mind to decline the claim early in the 
process of assessing  it. 
In addition, Mr F has said that the foundation  depth documented by Aviva  is incorrect  it is 
actually 200mm deeper than reported. He thinks Aviva should be made  to investigate this 
matter further and dig a deeper hole to investigate the foundations.  Furthermore,  he believes 
the foundation depth needed was miscalculated  by Aviva because  his extension is timber  
Ref: DRN72456124framed and has a lighter construction roof. He has calculated the necessary foundation 
depth himself using NHBC guidelines and he believes  the foundations  are adequate. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including Mr Fs 
recent submission,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
When considering  complaints  such as this one where the matters are technical,  we place a 
heavy reliance on the expert evidence available to us. The geotechnical investigations 
involved a trial pit 1m deep being  dug beside the foundation of Mr Fs extension.  This means 
the trial pit was deeper than Mr F is saying he believes his foundations to be. So I dont 
consider a deeper trial pit would allow anything new to be discovered.  I see no reason to 
discount the findings of these investigations  and if Mr F believes they are wrong,  it would be 
for him to provide  expert evidence to evidence  that. 
I have also noted  what Mr F has said about the construction of the extension  and the vicinity 
of vegetation to it. Again, evidence would need to be provided showing the factors  used  by 
Aviva in its calculation  were wrong. None has been provided. In addition,  even if I were to 
accept Mr Fs calculation  was correct, his conclusion that the foundations are sufficiently 
deep is based on them being deeper than the evidence currently available shows them  to 
be.
I know this will disappoint Mr F, but his further  submissions  have  not persuaded me to 
change my conclusions.  I am satisfied  the evidence provided shows that Aviva  was not 
wrong to apply the exclusion for poor design/workmanship to defeat  Mr Fs claim.
my decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 13 
April 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7245612