K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending  Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr W was given a single  loan by ELL in April 2008.  He borrowed £750 and agreed to repay  
the loan in twelve monthly instalments.  Mr W does appear to have faced some problems 
making his repayments,  but his loan was fully repaid with help from a relative in July 2008.
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that ELL 
had been wrong  to agree to lend to Mr W. So she didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Best practice at the time ELL gave this loan to Mr W suggested it should carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice  
this meant  that ELL had to ensure  that making  the repayments wouldnt cause Mr W undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN71271662the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Mr W.
ELL gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how he 
was managing his finances and gathered two months of bank  statements that it appears to 
have carefully reviewed.
Mr W was entering  into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make  monthly  
repayments for a period of a year. So I think it was right that ELL gathered, and 
independently checked, some detailed  information about Mr Ws financial  circumstances  
before it agreed  to lend to him. I therefore  think that the checks I described above were  
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information  that is shown by those checks.  ELL has given  us a 
copy of the results of its credit search.  And although it no longer holds the bank statements 
that Mr W provided, Mr W agreed  we could obtain copies of those statements from his bank. 
Ive looked carefully  at the information  that ELL had available  to consider whether it was 
reasonable for it to give this loan to Mr W.
The credit check results  dont appear to show that Mr W was facing any problems managing 
his money. He had few credit accounts,  and those accounts were  all shown as being up to 
date without any significant repayment problems  in the past. So I think the results  of the 
credit check  might have reassured  the lender about  Mr Ws financial circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr W says that things with his finances were much worse  than I have 
described above. I dont  know from the information I have seen on the credit check  whether 
that was the case. But the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of 
their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might  only see a 
small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised,  or the data 
might not be up to date.  So, this may explain any differences between  the information 
provided by ELLs credit  check and the information Mr W says it should have seen.
Mr W has told us that he was suffering  from a gambling addiction when he asked for this 
loan. I have noted that ELL saw some  relatively significant gambling expenditure when it 
looked at Mr Ws bank  statements. But that expenditure was limited  to a single  occasion  at 
just one venue. It asked Mr W about that expenditure and he explained it had been a 
drunken mistake. In the absence  of any other  clear  evidence  of gambling, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for ELL to believe what Mr W had said. And the bank statements dont show 
any other evidence  of financial problems such as increasing use of an overdraft, heavy 
reliance on other forms of credit, or regular unpaid transactions.
Ref: DRN71271663I appreciate how difficult Mr W says things were for him at that time. But that wasnt  
something that he told ELL about when he asked  for the loan. And I dont think it is 
something that was reasonably shown by the proportionate checks that ELL did. So I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to conclude  that ELL shouldnt  have  given this loan to Mr W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award 
Everyday Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7127166