K821x#15complaint
Mr S is seeking to recover £6,000 from TSB Bank  plc (TSB),  which he lost from his account  
as a result  of a third-party scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because  Mr S unwittingly authorised the payment 
himself  and it could not reasonably have intervened  or done more to try to recoup  the 
money from the receiving  bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this 
complaint for the following reasons:
It is not in dispute  that Mr S authorised the scam  payment  of £6,000.  He was in the 
process of transferring it to his solicitor  and was waiting for an email confirming the 
account details  to which theyd like the funds  paid. On 11 December 2018,  Mr S received  
an email which appeared  to come from his solicitor including  their account details. The 
email appeared  in a chain of others that Mr S had been responding to and appeared to 
come from the solicitor he had been in contact with.
On 14 December 2018, Mr S transferred the money  as per the instructions he was sent in 
the email. He did so via online banking  after paying some funds into his account on 12 
December 2018.  It appears that he set up a new payee to make the payment.
Mr S didnt receive a response from his solicitor.  So, in January 2019 he contacted them 
to enquire if the payment had been  received. Mr Ss solicitors said it had not. It then came 
to light that their email  exchange had been hacked  and Mr Ss solicitor had not sent the 
email containing  the account details. One of the letters  in Mr Ss solicitors email address 
had been changed and the £6,000 payment  had not been paid into the solicitors  account 
 it had been transferred to a money-remittance  provider.  Mr S had fallen victim to a 
sophisticated scam. The email Mr S received  was from a fraudster who had managed  to 
send a fake email  to Mr S  which looked  just like genuine ones sent by his solicitor  and 
which appeared to come  from the same email address  albeit with one letter subtly 
changed.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr S was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment online.  So, 
although he did not intend the money  to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions  of his account, Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice  and what  I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, I 
consider TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN72457732Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions  or other  signs 
that might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other  things).  
This is particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated  fraud  and scams  in 
recent years,  which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps  may include following the Banking 
Protocol where  appropriate.
TSB initially declined  to refund Mr S the £6,000 as it didnt believe it had done anything  
wrong in carrying out his instructions to make the payment. It said there  was nothing 
about the payment itself that shouldve put TSB on notice that Mr S mightve been at risk 
of financial harm.
TSB said it isnt unusual for its customers to pay large credits into their accounts and 
pay them  out again quickly  these large  credits usually have a specific  purpose and 
once paid in, will be quickly utilised for this purpose. And so the activity on Mr Ss 
account wouldnt have  seemed unusual.  TSB said Mr S received regular faster 
payments into his account and so the method  of transfer out, which was also a faster  
payment, wouldnt  have stood out either.  In summary it felt there wasnt anything  
about this activity that wouldve stood  out as unusual for Mr S  if usual  customer  
account activity  was taken into consideration. 
TSB went on to say that the transfer was made online without any direct involvement 
from any of its staff and so there was no way TSB could have known Mr Ss solicitors 
account details  had been changed. And because  of this, TSB could not have been 
expected to have prevented the scam.  But I dont agree with TSB and Id like to 
explain why.
Im satisfied a payment  of £6,000 was unusual for Mr S and uncharacteristic for his 
account - there had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent times. The 
largest transaction that left this account in the 12 months leading  up to the scam, 
amounted to £580. So, this payment was more than 10 times  higher than any other 
payment made from his account in the 12 months  prior to the scam. Mr S also hadnt  
made any faster payments out of the account at all. The transfer is also made to a 
new payee  to a money  remittance service. And so Im satisfied TSB ought fairly and 
reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have done more  here - I think it ought 
to have made enquiries about the purpose  of and the circumstances leading  up to the 
payment before it processed it. Im satisfied that if TSB had contacted  Mr S in this 
particular case,  the scam  would have been  revealed and prevented.  Ill explain why.
Mr S fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  invoice  intercept. And its a 
type of scam Im satisfied TSB ought  to have  been aware of at the time. Had TSB 
Ref: DRN72457733contacted Mr S, he would  most likely have told TSB he was intending  to pay his solicitor 
some funds. But, at this point, being  aware  of the prevalence of this type of scam, its 
common characteristics and the fact that solicitors firms in particular are often targeted, 
TSB wouldve had the opportunity to question  him further.
A particularly  common feature of this type of scam, is that a customer will receive an 
email that appears  to be from the genuine  business they are in contact with. This email 
will contain  either updated payment details or the payment details provided  will have 
been subtly changed - unbeknown to the customer,  in order to redirect  the payment to a 
fraudulent account.
This is a common scam with very particular  characteristics, and Im satisfied TSB ought  
fairly and reasonably to have asked Mr S how the payment details had been communicated  
to him. Mr S wouldve told the bank theyd been  sent to him by his solicitor, by email.  TSB 
could then have  educated Mr S about  this type of scam and its key characteristics. It 
couldve asked Mr S if there was anything  that made this email appear  different to those he 
had received before. At this point, Mr S may have noticed the subtlety changed email 
address. But more crucially, it could  have informed Mr S that his money was being directed 
to a money remittance service rather than a business banking account - as you would 
expect from a UK based solicitors firm. This is a clear  indicator that something  wasnt quite 
right here and TSB couldve told Mr S that this was unusual and he may be at risk of falling 
victim to a scam. 
TSB could  have asked  Mr S to check before continuing with the transfer - it couldve 
advised Mr S to contact  his solicitors, using an established contact number, to confirm  the 
account details  were correct. Had TSB done so, Im persuaded that all of the above would 
likely have produced  some doubt in Mr Ss mind that the payment details may not be 
legitimate, and he wouldve contacted his solicitor before proceeding with the payment. After 
all, this was a significant amount of money and Mr S may not have  been  aware  previously 
that this type of scam was even  possible. Im persuaded  that once informed of this, he 
would have taken  some steps  to verify  the account  details provided to him  had Mr S done 
so, Im persuaded  that the scam  would  have been prevented  and no loss occurred.
In summary,  Im persuaded  TSB ought fairly and reasonably  to have encouraged Mr S to 
confirm the account details  hed been  sent. His circumstances had the hallmarks of a 
well-known scam. And TSB should have explained the risks of scams involving the 
interception, altering and hacking of emails which would have prompted further action from 
him. In other words, if TSB had carried out further  or better  questioning  in line with a banks 
duty of care,  it seems probable that Mr S would have contacted his solicitor just to make 
sure everything was as it should be. At this point,  the scam  would have  come  to light. The 
fraud would have failed; and Mr S would not have lost £6,000.
However, by the time the scam  came to light, there were no funds remaining in the 
beneficiary account. Given that all of the funds had already been removed by the 
time TSB were  made aware of the scam, TSB could not recover any more of Mr Ss 
money. 
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have  made  no difference  because the recipient 
Ref: DRN72457734banks confirmed that the scammers withdrew all the money before Mr S notified TSB of his 
concerns.
I have also considered whether Mr S should bear some responsibility for his loss. However, 
it is clear that up to and including  the time of authorising the payment, he was still totally in 
the dark and simply did not appreciate  what he was doing  he thought he was making a 
legitimate payment to a business he had been in regular contact with. I am satisfied  there 
was no contributory  negligence on this occasion, Mr S was the unwitting and blameless 
victim of a clever fraudster. The bank  was the professional in financial matters;  Mr S was a 
layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr S for 
the loss suffered without any reduction, together with interest to compensate  him for being 
deprived of the money he lost. I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money  
from Mr S, he wouldve  used it for its intended purpose,  to pay his solicitor, and so interest 
should be calculated  at a rate of 8% simple per annum.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against TSB Bank plc and direct  it to:
refund  Mr S the £6,000 lost as part of the scam;  and
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the payment left 
the account to the date of settlement*;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
*TSB  may be required by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs to deduct  tax from the interest.  If it does, and if Mr 
S requests  it, TSB should  provide him with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, so he may 
reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7245773