K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a hire purchase  agreement  with PSA Finance UK Limited was mis-sold 
to him and that hes been overcharged interest.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance that he 
signed in March 2018. He complained  to PSA Finance later that month about the amount of 
interest that was payable  under the agreement. He wasnt satisfied  with its response so 
complained to this service. He says that PSA Finance: has overcharged interest on his 
agreement and has breached the contract; hasnt offered a reasonable explanation  of the 
interest calculation; and has breached its duty to fully explain the finance  provided and has 
mis-sold the agreement to him.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that PSA Finance  had provided Mr B with an adequate explanation of how the interest was 
calculated and that the amortisation schedule that it had provided was correct.
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
PSA Finance  hasnt offered a reasonable explanation of how the interest  on his loan 
is calculated;
it infringed his right to cancel the agreement within the 14 day cooling off period; and
this service hasnt acted impartially as its reinforced the calculation  process offered 
by PSA Finance which is flawed and its attempted an interpretation of the calculation  
supplied by PSA Finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B signed  the hire purchase agreement in March 2018. Immediately above his signature  it 
says:
This is a Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
And by signing the agreement  he confirmed  that hed been  given  a pre-contract information 
document and a complete  copy of the agreement.
The agreement set out the cash price  of the car of £20,970, the total charge for credit of 
£4,284.98, the total amount payable of £25,254.98, the duration of the agreement of 48 
months and the interest rate which was 3.56% (equivalent to 6.9%  APR). The agreement 
also said that Mr B was to make  47 monthly repayments of £310.34 and a final payment of 
£10,669.
Mr B complained to PSA Finance later that month about the interest payable under the 
agreement. He said that the total amount  of interest should only be £2,893.86. It said that 
the interest had been calculated correctly and in accordance with the applicable regulations, 
Ref: DRN70798122it provided the formula that is used for such calculations and it provided the amortisation 
schedule for Mr Bs agreement.
PSA Finance said that it appreciated:  the complexity of the interest rate calculations  
required by the regulations ; and I consider that it responded reasonably to Mr Bs request 
for an explanation of the interest  calculation.
The calculations arent straightforward and are dealt with by regulations.  PSA Finance has 
provided Mr B with an explanation of the calculation, the formula  that its required to use and 
the amortisation schedule. Having looked  at all of those, Im not persuaded that PSA 
Finance has calculated the interest  incorrectly. 
The calculations that Mr B has provided  do not apply the 6.9% APR interest rate correctly  
and seem to have been made on the basis of simple interest. But Mr B agreed to make the 
monthly payments  that are set out in the agreement. And Im not persuaded that hes 
provided enough evidence to show that those payments have been calculated  incorrectly.
Mr B says that PSA Finance has infringed  his right to cancel the agreement in the cooling-off  
period. The right to withdraw from it is set out in the agreement. It requires notice to be given  
in writing and for the credit to be repaid.  Mr Bs letter to PSA Finance didnt say that he 
wanted to withdraw  from the agreement and Ive seen  no other evidence to show  that he 
gave the required  notice to withdraw  from the agreement.
I dont consider that the agreement was mis-sold  to Mr B or that PSA Finance has acted  
incorrectly in connection with the interest  that hes been charged under the agreement. So I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require PSA Finance to change the 
agreement, to refund any interest  to Mr B, to pay him any compensation or to take any other  
action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7079812