K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of a limited company (A) that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(Natwest) closed its bank accounts and online banking service  without notice. 
background
A is a microenterprise with Mr H as its sole director. A had a business  loan, current  account 
and overdraft with Natwest. On 24 January 2018, Natwest  wrote to A to say that the 
overdraft had expired  and, following  an annual  review, wasnt going to be renewed so the 
outstanding balance needed  to be repaid  by 24 February. The account  had been transferred 
to its Specialised Business Management department  because  itd been  regularly  overdrawn 
and had exceeded the overdraft limit at times. 
Natwest wrote to A again on 7 February and sent formal demand letters on 14 March and 26 
March. During this time, As address was updated on the banks systems. This meant  that 
the first two letters were  sent to a different address and only the final demand was sent to 
As address at that time.
Natwest didnt hear back  from A and couldnt reach Mr H by phone.  On 5 April 2018 it moved 
all of As accounts to its debt recoveries department. The bank account was suspended, 
except for repayments of the balance, and online  banking access was cancelled. 
Mr H says he only found out about  the situation  when he called Natwest  on 24 April to ask 
why As online banking wasnt working.  He complains  that Natwest sent letters to the wrong 
address so he didnt  receive them. He says that Natwest closed the account because a loan 
interest payment  had been missed  but the interest payment had since  been  made  and the 
full payment was only missed because A had to enforce a client debt. Because  of this, Mr H 
says Natwest failed  to take As circumstances into account or act sympathetically  towards it. 
He says that the situation meant the companys tax filings took longer and cost more than 
they would  have done usually. Also, because A didnt have a bank account, projects couldnt 
go ahead  and this cost the business  money. Mr H is particularly unhappy because he says 
hes also had problems  with Natwest sending letters to the wrong address  on his personal  
account and statements have been  lost. 
Natwest only upheld one part of Mr Hs complaint, paying £30 compensation for the trouble 
and upset he faced  when he called the bank to ask about As accounts  and was passed 
around different  departments. Natwest didnt agree that it had done anything  wrong  when it 
closed the account or the online banking access. The bank  said it wasnt  willing to reinstate 
As bank  accounts  or online banking, but arranged for A to receive copy statements by post 
to help with the tax return. 
Mr H, on behalf of A, referred  the matter  to our service for an independent view. Hes said he 
wants A to be able to continue using the accounts, with a reduced overdraft limit of £1750. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr H asked for a final 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78445192I considered whether Natwest acted fairly  when  it cancelled  the overdraft in January 2018. 
Natwest havent been able to provide a copy of As overdraft agreement but I can see that 
the business overdraft fact sheet clearly mentions an annual review  process where  the bank 
decides whether  to offer the overdraft for another year. From this and the other evidence, Im 
satisfied that the bank  had the discretion to cancel  the overdraft limit when it did. 
I know Mr H is frustrated that Natwest did this without considering the challenges A had 
faced and the efforts he was making  to overcome them.  I sympathise  with As position and 
hes right to say that banks should  act positively  and sympathetically towards customers  in 
financial difficulties. But I also cant see that he contacted Natwest  to explain As 
circumstances or ask for flexibility. And the forecasts  given to Natwest a few months  earlier,  
when A applied for its business loan, projected a healthy financial position. I dont think it 
would be fair to expect  Natwest  to be sympathetic  about a situation it didnt know about. 
Indeed, the first letters it sent A said the bank would  try to be supportive  but it needed to 
make contact with the company to discuss its circumstances. So its unfortunate that A didnt  
receive the letters or the phone calls.
Natwest thinks it took reasonable  efforts  to contact A by letter and phone  before it 
transferred the account to its recoveries team. Mr H says he didnt receive the letters.  
Neither Mr H nor Natwest have been  able to explain clearly how and why the first letters 
were sent to a different  address for A, or how Natwests systems were updated to the right 
address in February 2018. I can see that A updated its address at Companies House in 
November 2017   from the address that had been recorded  with Natwest  when A took out its 
business loan in May 2017 - but Natwests systems werent updated until February 2018. On 
the balance of probability, I think that A didnt update Natwest promptly when it changed  
offices. 
In any case, Im satisfied  that the final demand  letter was sent to the right address and this 
letter explained the situation  clearly,  along with what A would need to do to avoid further 
action. Mr H says he didnt receive it but I dont think the bank had reason to know that this 
letter or the earlier letters hadnt been received. And I can see that the bank made several 
attempts to call Mr H, but one of the recorded phone numbers was for a conference call line 
and the other was a number that wasnt answered  and didnt have a voicemail. In the 
circumstances, I think  that Natwest took reasonable efforts to contact A before transferring 
its accounts to the debt recoveries department.  
I know that Mr H will be disappointed, but Im satisfied that Natwest was entitled to close As 
accounts and did so after taking reasonable efforts to contact him and discuss the 
companys circumstances. Im not going to ask Natwest to do anything more  here.  
I can also see that Mr H is unhappy  with how Natwest has handled  similar problems on his 
personal account and he might  be frustrated that I havent addressed  them in my decision. 
Im not able to consider these points  because this complaint is brought  by A, but Mr H might 
be eligible to bring a separate complaint about these  issues  in his own name.
Ref: DRN78445193my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
A to accept  or reject  my decision before 11 February 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7844519