K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Cofunds  Limited  caused  delays  when  she tried to make an ISA 
transfer. She feels the delays led her to incur  a loss. (Her husband, Mr S, has made a 
related complaint thats been dealt with separately).
background
Mrs S instigated the transfer  in April 2018  via a broker.  Despite repeatedly  chasing  the 
various parties the process remained unfinished  in July 2018,  so she cancelled the request 
and subsequently moved the money to a different provider.
Mrs S complained to Cofunds, which accepted that it had failed to communicate with her 
effectively during the course of the process. It offered her £150 for the trouble and upset this 
had caused. It also noted, as a separate issue, that it had failed to set up a direct debit for 
her account  so offered to waive some  platform  charges. 
Mrs S wasnt  satisfied  with this response and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator initially found Cofunds  offer to be fair but Mrs S argued  that shed also incurred 
a financial loss due to the delay in her being  able to re-invest the money. 
The investigator acknowledged this but concluded that it was difficult  to be certain precisely 
what Mrs S wouldve done and also that other parties  the broker, Mrs S existing  provider  
had been involved, so it difficult  to apportion  blame. He suggested that as a compromise  
Mrs S be compensated with an additional £150, based broadly  upon the return the money 
had been achieving prior to the transfer.
Neither party accepted this. Cofunds  didnt agree to the extra  payment as it felt its offer was 
already sufficient, particularly as it felt responsibility for the delays lay in part with the other 
businesses involved in the transfer.  Mrs S was strongly of the view that Cofunds was solely  
responsible and offered figures  based  on where shed subsequently invested with a different 
provider in order to support  her view that a higher amount of compensation was warranted. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Cofunds has accepted that its handling of the transfer was not as it shouldve  been. It agrees 
that it shouldve  actively contacted Mrs S or her broker when there appeared to be an issue 
with the process.  So, as its accepted  that a mistake was made, I need only to address the 
matter of what represents fair compensation for that mistake. 
Often in situations  like these, where theres been a delay in making  a transfer that in turn 
leads to a delay in making  an investment, its a reasonably straightforward matter  to 
determine the position that the complainant  wouldve  been  in but for the delay. But in this 
case, its not so easy. 
Ref: DRN78583172We have an indication of what  Mrs S would otherwise  have done  in terms of investing,  as 
she did re-invest when she eventually transferred to a different provider. But determining 
precisely when that might  have happened, particularly as there were other parties involved 
who may have been responsible for at least some delay, is very difficult  in this case.
As such,  I think the compromise put forward by the investigator is fair one. I note Cofunds  
concerns that it wasnt solely responsible for the delays, but the additional £150 suggested 
by the investigator  is based upon the rate of return the money  was earning before the 
transfer. And importantly  its not the whole  of that amount, but a proportion  which  goes 
some way towards addressing the issue of potentially shared responsibility.
I appreciate that neither party will feel this is a wholly satisfactory  outcome to the complaint. 
But the Financial  Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service  and I decide 
the outcome of complaints by reference to what  is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case, which Im satisfied  Ive done here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct 
Cofunds Limited to pay Mrs S a total of £300,  to include  any payments already made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
James Harris  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7858317