K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his claim under  a home maintenance policy. He wants 
matters put right.
background 
Mr S had a home maintenance  policy  with RSA, which covered maintenance or repairs 
needed to the heating  system, plumbing  and electrics in the property, including the boiler. 
Mr Ss boiler was installed in 2006  and needed  to be replaced in 2018. Mr S said the 
insurance policy said that if the boiler  needed to be replaced within 12 years  of installation, 
RSA would install it for free (with a cap of £2,500 towards the cost). These were the terms 
and conditions when  the policy was first taken out in 2012. Mr S replaced his boiler (at a cost 
of about £3,600) and asked RSA to contribute towards the cost.  
RSA refused. It said that its engineers  carried out the annual  service in April 2018 and 
reported a list of defects  and failed  parts, caused  by the age of the boiler.  RSA also said that 
there was an issue with the flue. The boiler was marked as at risk and the manufacturer  
was asked by RSA to arrange a repair. The manufacturer  couldnt help, so RSA sent an 
engineer, and found that due to the state of the boiler, the issue with the flue and the need  
for scaffolding, the total costs meant  that the boiler  was beyond economical  repair.  RSA said 
Mr S didnt accept this decision, and was relying on the literature provided  at the start of the 
relationship with the previous insurer. RSA explained  its terms and conditions  said that if the 
boiler was over ten years old (such as Mr S), it wasnt eligible for replacement. It said the 
current terms and conditions were  notified  to Mr S when he renewed in December  2017.
Mr S complained to us. He felt that if RSAs engineers had done  a better job at the annual  
service, the fault with the original boiler  wouldve been found earlier and been repaired. Mr S 
also said that if insurers were allowed to change the terms and conditions over the years,  he 
thought it was sharp practice. 
The adjudicators view was that the terms and conditions of the policy  in place when the 
boiler needed replacement excluded Mr S boiler from replacement cover  as it was more  
than ten years old; the original terms and conditions no longer applied. 
But the adjudicator didnt  think  RSA had done enough to draw Mr S attention to the 
significant change  to his insurance  policy. While  the renewal letter  told consumers to check 
the terms and conditions carefully,  and the policy schedule said Mr S wasnt  entitled to boiler  
replacement cover, the adjudicator said more  shouldve  been done to make the change clear 
to Mr S. He accepted  that Mr S wouldve  not renewed if hed known of the change,  but noted 
the other benefits  of the policy which were  available to Mr S. The adjudicator said it was fair 
and reasonable for RSA not to pay for the replacement of the boiler, but it should pay £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by not bringing the changes sufficiently to 
Mr S attention.
Mr S disagreed. He wanted £2,500 compensation as thats what he felt he was entitled to 
under the insurance policy. RSA accepted the adjudicators view. The adjudicator  said that 
the terms and conditions of the policy changed  when RSA took over and this was permitted.
Ref: DRN76680562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that his contract was with the engineers, not the insurer. That isnt entirely 
accurate as a matter  of law. As is made  clear  within the policy,  the contract  is between  Mr S 
and the insurer,  regardless of the branding of the policy. The identity of the insurer changed  
over time (which  isnt unusual), and RSA took over in 2017. While  Mr S is relying on the 
initial terms and conditions of a policy with a different insurer from 2012,  insurers are able to 
update and change the terms  and conditions of a policy when it is renewed, though they are 
expected to make the changes clear to consumers. In this case, RSA was entitled  to change 
the terms and conditions, and apply those  terms and conditions to claims under the new 
policy.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that RSA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  Under the terms and 
conditions of the policy in place when  the boiler  needed replacement,  Mr S wasnt  entitled to 
a free replacement (or a contribution to costs).  So I cant say RSA has rejected the claim 
unfairly or unreasonably and doesnt need  to pay for the replacement  of the boiler.  I also 
note that the annual  service wasnt part of the insurance contract.
But as I said earlier, RSA was required to bring the change to Mr S attention so he could 
decide if the policy still met his needs.  In December 2017, RSA says it sent a renewal letter  
to Mr S, attaching the new terms and conditions and telling him to read them carefully. Mr S 
hasnt denied receiving  this letter and I think its more likely than not that it was sent (RSA  
not being responsible  for delivery of post). The policy schedule also told Mr S the age of his 
boiler and that it wasnt eligible for replacement cover.
I think RSA shouldve done more to bring the significant change to Mr S attention.  The letter  
couldve been more  specific about  the change,  though  I accept its fair and reasonable to 
expect consumers to read the terms and conditions. I note that Mr S and his wife are 
vulnerable consumers from the evidence available to me and clearly valued the boiler 
replacement cover highly as they cancelled  the policy  after Mr S was told that his claim for 
the costs of the replacement wouldnt be paid by RSA.
But the policy offered a number of other benefits;  it didnt just offer boiler replacement cover. 
And RSA did tell Mr S that there had been  changes and to check  the policy was still suitable. 
In the circumstances of this case,  I think only compensation  for trouble and upset  caused  by 
the failure to be more  specific about  the changes to the policy  is fair and reasonable. Money 
never truly compensates for trouble and upset. I can only award  compensation for the failure 
by RSA identified  by this service,  not for the whole situation. I think  £100 is fair and 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN76680563my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc 
should pay Mr S £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 October  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7668056