K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Instant Cash Loans Limited (trading as Payday Express)  lent her 
money that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Payday Express gave Miss S three loans between September 2013 and January 2014.
 
Before agreeing to lend each time,  Payday Express asked Miss S for details of her income 
and outgoings,  including  housing costs, credit  commitments  and food.
Miss S declared her net monthly income  to be £800 and outgoings of £50 for loan 1 and 
£100 for loans  2 and 3.
Miss S says the loans were unaffordable  and that she was borrowing from other lenders. 
She says she wasnt creditworthy and had a default  on her credit  file. Miss S wants  Payday  
Express to refund the interest and charges that shes paid,  remove  the loans from her credit 
file and write off any outstanding balance.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Ss complaint be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
Payday Express checks went far enough  before agreeing loans one and two.
The adjudicator thought  that Payday Express shouldve  asked  about  Miss Ss other  short 
term lending commitments  before  agreeing loan three. However, even if Payday Express 
had done this, the adjudicator thought that based  on Miss Ss credit report, loan three 
wouldve still appeared affordable.
Miss S disagrees with the adjudicators recommendation and has sent her bank statements 
from the time showing her financial position.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payday Express was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to carry out checks to decide  
whether Miss S could afford to pay the loans  back. These checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount to be repaid, the length of the agreement  and 
any borrowing history.  But there  wasnt a set list of checks  it had to do.
loans one and two
Both loans  were for £200. The maximum repayment on each loan represented a fairly small 
proportion of Miss Ss declared monthly  disposable  income. As it was early on in Miss Ss 
lending history with Payday  Express I think it wouldve been  reasonable of Payday Express  
to agree to lend based on her income  alone. 
Payday Express went further than this and asked Miss S to give it details of her monthly 
expenses. Based on the results, it looked as though  Miss S could afford  to repay  loans one 
and two.
Ref: DRN70385132loan three
Miss S repaid loan two but she was late in making  some of the repayments. There  was a 
short gap and then Miss S asked to borrow £200 again.  
By now, Miss S had been borrowing regularly and had struggled to repay her previous loan. I 
think that Payday  Express shouldve carried  out some more checks  than it did. I consider it 
wouldve been proportionate to expect  Payday  Express  to ask about Miss Ss other short 
term lending commitments  before  agreeing loan three. 
Just because I dont  consider  a lender carried out adequate checks  doesnt necessarily 
mean that I must uphold the complaint.  I would  need to be satisfied that what I consider to 
have been proportionate  checks wouldve shown Payday Express that Miss S couldnt afford 
to repay  the loans  in a sustainable way  that is without  borrowing further.
Even if Payday  Express had asked Miss S about  her short  term credit  commitments  as well 
as her other  regular outgoings, I dont think it wouldve changed  the decision to lend. This is 
because I cant see any other outstanding  short term loans on Miss Ss credit report  around 
the time of loan three.  Although she did have other short term lending it was settled before 
this loan was applied for.
Based on the information that Miss S gave  to Payday Express,  it appeared that she could  
afford to repay this loan from her disposable income. I cant  say that Payday  Express  was 
wrong to agree loan three.
Miss S explains that there was a default  on her credit file and I can see that this was 
recorded in March 2013 for around  £300. That shouldnt by itself mean  that the loan 
shouldnt have been given. I think that the checks Payday Express did by asking Miss S 
about her outgoings to check she could  afford  the loan were enough. Miss Ss credit file 
showed that she was successfully repaying other credit.
I dont doubt that Miss S was struggling  and the level of income and outgoings  she had 
declared was not a true reflection of her situation.  But based on the information  I think  it was 
reasonable for Payday  Express to have asked for I cant  say it was wrong to lend.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7038513