K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc dealt with her when she 
was a victim  of fraud.   
background
In February 2019  someone claiming  to be Miss F contacted  NatWest.  They  arranged  for her 
address to be changed in the banks records  and the following day ordered  a new card and 
PIN; both were sent to the new address.
NatWest sent Miss F a text message to tell her a new card had been ordered. She contacted 
the bank to say that she hadnt requested one. The card wasnt  stopped  however and was 
later used to withdraw  £1,400 from Miss Fs account. Miss F contacted the bank again but 
was unable to pass security. She had to go to a branch  with identification. She was then able 
to explain what had happened to the banks fraud  team,  which arranged for a refund to be 
made soon  afterwards. 
The bank acknowledged that it should have  stopped  the replacement card when Miss F said 
that she hadnt ordered it. It agreed to pay her in total a further  £150  (in addition to the 
refund) in recognition that and because it hadnt asked enough security questions  on one 
occasion when  she called. 
Miss F didnt think that went  far enough however.  She felt that calls had been badly handled, that 
shed been passed around  departments  and that she hadnt  been listened to. She also felt that 
the bank had failed to respond properly to her request that she not be contacted by telephone. 
She referred  her complaint to us and one of our investigators considered it. He agreed that 
there had been  some  failings in the way the bank  had handled things but thought that its 
offer of £150 was fair in the circumstances.  Miss F said that she thought a payment of £1,500  
would be fair, together with lost earnings. She asked that an ombudsman review  the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Its not clear how a fraudster got hold of enough  information to persuade the bank  to change 
the address on Miss Fs account. But, when a new card and PIN were ordered,  it sent a text 
message to Miss F. That should have provided protection  against  what  had happened; it 
should have enabled Miss F to prevent the new card being used. But, because  the bank 
didnt act when  Miss F said she hadnt ordered  the card or PIN, she was put to extra  
inconvenience  because she had to call the bank and go into a branch with identification 
documents. She also had to deal with the stress of having money  taken from her account. 
Its right that she should be compensated for that.
The bank also acknowledged  that it failed to ask a security question  that it should  have put to 
Miss F. Whilst of course that had no direct  effect (since it was Miss F on the call),  I can see 
why it might have made her feel that her account  wasnt as secure as it should  have been. 
Miss F says too that NatWest didnt  make necessary adjustments when  she said she didnt 
want to deal with it on the telephone. I dont agree with that however; it provided telephone 
details for Miss F to use if she wanted  to, but it provided other  options  as well. 
Ref: DRN74285332Its clear that the bank  could have handled  this better than it did, and its acknowledged that. 
I think however that its offer of £150  (in addition to the £1,400 it refunded),  whilst  perhaps at 
the lower end of what Id expect, is fair in the circumstances. I can see that Miss F has said 
she thinks NatWest should  also compensate  her for loss of earnings, but Im afraid  Im not 
persuaded that the banks  actions  have caused  her to lose out on earnings or that it would 
be fair to include such an amount  an in any award.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7428533