K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is about investment advice received from an adviser who was a member 
of the Sesame Limited (Sesame) network. She says the advice was unsuitable, that the 
recommended investments were neglected (or mismanaged) and that the investments 
underperformed.
background
Mrs Ws complaint  referred to recommendations from the adviser from around 2003 
onwards. Sesame says the adviser was part of its network between 5 October  2000  and 29 
December 2006  and that it holds  no responsibility  for his actions outside this period. It also 
says that, upon  tracing the recommendations he made to Mrs W when  he was a part of its 
network, it established the following  recommended investments:
£63,000 (and a monthly contribution of £670) invested in a Skandia (now Old Mutual  
Wealth (OMW))  Investment  Bond  (IB) on 12 January 2004.
£77,000 invested in a Sterling (now Zurich (Z1)) IB on 29 November 2004.
£83,000 invested in another Sterling (now  Zurich (Z2)) IB on 26 July 2006.
Sesame upheld Mrs Ws complaints about the OMW  IB and the Z1 IB, it concluded that 
there were unsuitable for her medium/high risk profile because  they were  too high in terms of 
risk and had no elements  of medium risk components  to balance their profiles.  It conducted 
a redress calculation based on the Private Investors Income Total  Return (the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock  
Market Income Total Return  Index)) benchmark. 
Sesame set end dates of 31 December 2006 (for the OMW  IB) and 28 November 2007 (for 
the Z1 IB) for the calculation because the IBs were revised (with fund switches) by the 
adviser on these dates after he was no longer part of its network. Its calculation results were  
that, as of the end dates, the actual values of the IBs exceeded their values based on the 
benchmark, so it concluded  that no compensation for financial loss (based on the 
benchmark) was due. However, it offered Mrs W £200 for the trouble and upset caused  to 
her by the unsuitable  recommendations of the IBs.
Sesame does not consider that the Z2 IB was unsuitable for Mrs W. It notes that the matter  
of suitability of this IB is distinct  from its performance; that no performance  guarantee was 
given for it; that the IB matched her medium/high risk profile; and that it achieved growth.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He considered that Sesames redress calculation is consistent with this services 
approach towards  redress; that its £200 offer is fair; that the Z2 IB was suitable for broadly 
the same  reasons given by Sesame (and that the IB was sufficiently diversified with cash  
holdings that were probably  around 15% in each of the two main  sub funds and was suitable  
to her medium/high risk profile); and that the additional compensation sought by Mrs W is 
not warranted.
Mrs W strongly disagrees with this outcome. In the main, her position is that:
The idea that £200 is the only redress due to her from her complaint is insulting.
The focus of her complaint is the underperformance of the IBs from 2007  onwards; 
the adviser neglected them from that year; by 2007 more  investments had been 
Ref: DRN75962362made under his advice (or management); he recommended a transfer of around half 
of her total investments to a third party firm in 2013,  but left the IBs as they were  
despite them  remaining under his advice  (or management); he continued to neglect  
the IBs thereafter  and they are presently worth less than they were in 2007; but, in 
contrast, the investments transferred to the third party firm (to which  the adviser 
moved after leaving Sesames network) were not as neglected and they made  gains.
It is wrong for our investigation to focus only on Sesames involvement in the matter.  
It ought to be widened to consider all the relevant parties involved in her investments 
from 2007 to date and to establish responsibility  for the underperformance of the IBs 
(or her investments).
Another investigator assumed conduct of the complaint and explained that this service could 
only address it to the extent that it relates to Sesame. Mrs W retained  her position and the 
matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responsibility for Mrs Ws complaint
I understand the comprehensive treatment that Mrs W seeks  for her complaint. However, 
each complaint addressed within this service is treated to the extent that it relates  to the 
complaints respondent.  The respondent in the present complaint is Sesame. 
I do not suggest Mrs W is wrong to seek a complete  picture  of how her investments have 
been advised or managed  from 2007  to date, but that is a matter beyond the remit of the 
present complaint. 
I have consulted the regulators records and the individual  adviser  that features in Mrs Ws 
case ceased being a part of Sesames  network from 29 December 2006.  It is neither 
reasonable nor fair for Sesame to be held responsible for his actions thereafter.  In addition, 
there would appear  to be no legal or regulatory  basis upon which Sesame is responsible  for 
his actions thereafter. 
This decision is limited to addressing Sesames role in Mrs Ws complaint.
The OMW and Z1 IBs
Mrs Ws complaint  about these IBs has been  upheld by Sesame and it agrees that they were 
unsuitable for her.
Sesames use of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index as a benchmark  
is consistent with the approach taken in this service with regards to calculating redress  for 
the sort of investor/risk profile Mrs W had. 
The benchmark is based on a mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes,  
including UK equities  and government bonds.  It is not suggested that these are the sorts of 
investments Mrs W should or would  have made  with suitable advice. Instead, and in the 
absence of evidence  about precisely which (suitable)  investments she would have made if 
she did not invest in both IBs, the benchmark  is used  as a reasonable compromise that 
Ref: DRN75962363broadly reflects  the sort of return she would have  achieved from investments suited to her 
medium/high investor and risk profile.  
With regards to the end dates  used  by Sesame, I consider that they are fair and reasonable. 
A firms  responsibility for unsuitable advice can continue beyond the point that the relevant 
adviser leaves the firm. However,  where   as in Mrs Ws case   the relevant investments  
have stopped being serviced by a firm (in this case, Sesames network) and have thereafter  
been revised and switched,  the firms continuing responsibility normally  ends. 
The idea is that a review of suitability is expected  when an investment is revised and/or 
switched. If it is determined  to be unsuitable thereafter, the adviser or firm that conducted the 
investment revision  and/or switch  will usually be responsible for such unsuitability from the 
point of revision/switch.
Available evidence  is that the above  two IBs were revised (with switches)  at the times noted 
by Sesame and responsibility for their suitability (or otherwise) passed away from Sesame at 
those times,  hence application of the revision/switch dates as the end dates for its redress  
responsibility.
I appreciate Mrs Ws dissatisfaction that the redress calculations  produced  no actual 
financial redress for her. However, the exercise  is not defined  by a need  to compensate her 
at any cost, it is defined  by application of the investment performance and benchmark 
comparison  the outcome  naturally  emerges  from that comparison. Beyond  this exercise, 
this service does not usually consider  matters  of performance in isolation and, in the 
absence of a performance  guarantee(s), I have not seen anything  in Mrs Ws complaint  to 
prompt departure from this approach.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that Sesame has addressed the complaint about the 
OMW and Z1 IBs fairly.
The Z2 IB
As the adjudicator explained,  reference  to the probable cash  holding elements within this IB 
is not precise. In the absence of evidence  about the IBs contents during the relevant period 
 and given the passage  of around 15 years  from when  it was recommended   I agree with 
the investigators use of wider evidence that suggests what  its contents probably  were at the 
time. 
Cash holdings are usually  considered  to be relatively low in terms of risk. With wider 
evidence suggesting  that this IB  which was mainly based on property investments  
probably had around 15% in cash holdings in each of its two main  sub funds, it is not 
unreasonable to conclude  that this cash element had the effect  of giving the IB sufficient 
balance to match Mrs Ws medium/high investor  risk profile.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that the Z2 IB was unsuitable for Mrs W. I wish 
to note that I have  considered evidence of what could  be described as her and her late 
husbands relatively modest incomes around the relevant time. However, they had a 
considerable amount of invested  capital around the time and, importantly, she does not 
appear to dispute  that she sought  to take a medium/high risk approach towards  the IB 
investments. 
Trouble and Upset
Ref: DRN75962364I am not persuaded that Sesame should pay more  than the £200  it has determined. £200  is 
broadly consistent  with the sort of award,  for trouble and upset, this service would make  in 
circumstances akin to those in Mrs Ws complaint. It is a payment to reflect the upset caused  
to her by being recommended the two unsuitable IBs  not to address  what she considers to 
be her financial loss from the investments. The matter of financial loss has been  separately 
addressed on the basis  of the benchmark  comparison  as explained  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7596236