K820x#14complaint
Mr E, who is represented by his wife, Mrs E, complains that Black Horse Limited refused to 
cover the cost of repairs, pay for a hire car, or pay compensation.
background
In November 2017 Mr E acquired a second hand  car with a hire purchase funding provided  
by Black Horse. The car was over seven years  old and had done some  77,000  miles. In 
February he heard a knocking noise and the car was repaired by the dealer under warranty. 
In April there was further knocking noise and he took it in for repair before it was due a MOT.
The garage said it would cost in the region  of £1,200  to repair and it wasnt  covered by the 
warranty. In due course the dealer  offered a goodwill payment of £250. Mr E took the matter 
to Black Horse and submitted a video taken by the dealer. It commissioned an independent 
report. This said that there was no evidence  the fault was present at the point of sale and so 
Black Horse  declined to cover the cost of repairs.
Mr E complained to Black Horse and said he had been  sold a faulty car, the dealer had 
provided poor service  and he had incurred further costs  due to the delays  in dealing with his 
claim. It said that the car had passed  a MOT some six months  before  it was acquired by Mr 
E and some six months  later after it had over 10,000  miles it suffered corrosion on the sills 
near the suspension mounting.  It also said that it wasnt responsible for the level of service  
provided by the dealer.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. Mrs E told us that subsequently the car 
had suffered an electrical failure and it had been traded in. This had left Mr E in financial 
difficulties. 
The investigator noted the independent  engineer had said: the deformation  of the off side 
rear suspension  trailing arm is most likely as a result of incorrect jacking or raising of the 
vehicle with a two post ramp all the other reported issues are consistent with the end of life 
problems as expected with a vehicle of this age and type In addition he had concluded 
that it could not be established that the faults had been present at the point of sale.
She concluded that she couldnt hold Black  Horse responsible for the cost of the repair.  She 
also said that she could  only consider  the complaint against Black Horse  and not the issues  
Mrs E had raised about the behaviour of the dealer or the sale of the breakdown  cover. She 
noted Mrs E had sent Black Horse a video showing the problem, but she said it was fair of 
the bank to seek an independent  report.  Mrs E didnt agree and asked that the matter  be 
referred to an ombudsman to consider all the aspects of the complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN79930932The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse  is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I would add that I can only consider the complaint against Black Horse. It is not responsible 
for the failings, if any, of the dealer or the sale of the sale for the extended  warranty. The key 
issue is whether the car had the fault at the point of sale. The independent expert doesnt 
think it did and I note that the car did some 10,000 miles in the first six months  Mr E had it. 
It was over seven years  old and the fault which arose was one which the engineer  
considered was due to wear and tear. Such wear and tear is to be expected in a car of this 
age. If it had failed  say after 1,000 miles after purchase I could  see that it might be argued  
that there  was a fault present at the point of sale. But given Mr E was able to drive it for 
some 10,000 miles this supports the engineers report.
As for the issue of the bank obtaining  an independent report I consider this to be reasonable. 
The video from the garage didnt address the key question as to whether the fault was 
present at the point of sale. It merely identified the fault.
I have noted that it suffered an electrical failure subsequently, but as the car has been sold I 
am unable  to say if that was due to an issue that was present when the car was acquired by 
Mr E. On balance I dont consider there is sufficient evidence  to allow  me to safely conclude  
that Black  Horse has done anything wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
4 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7993093