K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that they have to pay a higher monthly premium on their whole of life 
policy because of an error made by Scottish Widows Limited. 
Theyre being assisted  by their son, Mr V2.   
background
Mr and Mrs V took out a whole of life policy, which they were advised would cost £40 a 
month. Upon receiving their paperwork they discovered Mr V had the incorrect date of birth. 
The business accepted that it was an error.  Mr V2 says Mr and Mrs V were told this wouldnt 
affect their policy. 
But without any further communication with them the business collected a much higher 
premium. The business later notified Mr and Mrs V that the correct premium theyd have to 
pay would  be £65, due to the underwriters  working  out the correct premium  in light of Mr Vs 
correct date of birth which is five years  older.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. In 
summary he said:
The business had made an error by using the wrong date of birth for Mr V. 
To put things right Mr and Mrs V would need  to be put in the position  they would 
have been in, had the business used the correct date of birth.  In this case this would 
mean paying £65 a month for their policy. 
It wouldnt be fair or reasonable to force  the business to provide the same policy for 
£40 a month. 
The business offer to pay £250  compensation for the trouble and upset plus a refund 
of premiums was fair and reasonable.
Mr V2 disagreed with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mr V2 says, I think £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
business error, and an offer to refund the premiums, is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Vs strength of feeling  about this matter.   
Mr V2 has provided detailed submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mr and Mrs V wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
Ref: DRN71376662The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr V2 and the business, and reach what I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Im unable to safely say exactly what was (or wasnt)  said by the adviser at the time Mr and 
Mrs V pointed out the error. I appreciate if they were told the incorrect date of birth wasnt  
going to affect  their premium, it was probably  because the adviser  thought it was a 
typographical error and Mr and Mrs V had already been accepted  by the insurer.  I dont think  
they were told anything to deliberately mislead  them.   
But because the error involved Mr Vs date of birth, on balance there was a chance  
particularly because the difference in age was five years, rather than five days  or months  - 
that the initial premium  was probably going to be higher. So if Mr and Mrs V were given this 
assurance as described by them, even in good  faith, the business should have known better. 
It gave them  a false expectation, and unwittingly endorsed their existing belief that they only 
had to pay £40 a month for the policy. 
But in reality given  the underwriters position it seems unlikely that they would have got the 
policy for anything less than £65 using  their correct details. In other words, they were 
unlikely to get the same level of cover with the business for £40 a month. 
Im satisfied this situation is likely to have  caused Mr and Mrs V some  trouble and upset,  and 
the business is right to offer compensation. In the circumstances I think  the offer to pay 
£250, and a refund of the premiums if they choose to get cover elsewhere,  is broadly fair 
and reasonable.  
I think the business quite rightly  offered  to pay Mr and Mrs V compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. They had an expectation of the likely initial cost, which  was incorrect, due 
to the business  use of the incorrect date of birth. 
Im mindful of what Mr V2 says, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask the 
business to provide the same policy for £40 a month, on the basis of this error, which was 
spotted reasonably  early  on, and resolved reasonably swiftly. Im also not persuaded that 
this means Mr and Mr V lost out financially by having to pay the correct premium.    
I appreciate Mr and Mrs V will be unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear.  But on the face 
of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint  and give them  what they want.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer by Scottish Widows Limited  is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN71376663Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137666