K820x#14Complaint
Ms C, who is represented by her son, Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc pressurised 
her into taking out a loan.
Background
In July 2015 Ms C took out a personal loan for 4,776.22. The APR was 29.9% and it was 
repayable over 60 months with payments of £145.63. Mr C says the bank told his mother, 
who was in her late 70s, that she had to take out a loan from it to pay off her credit card 
account. The outstanding balance of £2,660.95  was paid off by Mr C and his wife in October  
2018.
The bank rejected Mr Cs complaint  and said Ms C had signed  the agreement  and she had 
the option to withdraw if she so wished. Mr C brought his mothers complaint to this service 
where it was considered  by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
The bank advised this service that Ms C had taken  out personal  loans on a regular basis  
from 2011 to 2015.  It said the loan taken out in July 2015 was for debt consolidation to clear  
an existing loan and her credit card account.  The records show  that £1,008  was used to 
clear her credit card debt and the balance  to clear and existing loan. It said she would have  
been aware of the terms and conditions of personal loans and her right to withdraw.  
Our investigator established the loan was taken out on a non-advised basis.  He said that it 
would have been Ms Cs decision as to whether she was happy to proceed with the loan.  He 
believed the monthly  payments were set to meet Ms Cs need  at the time. He said the bank  
wasnt obliged to offer alternative options.  He appreciated  Ms C felt forced to take out the 
loan, but there was no evidence to support this.
Mr C didnt agree and reiterated that his mother had been told she must take out the loan to 
pay offer her credit card debt. She had been pressurised and didnt have  the choice our 
investigator had suggested. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again and from a different perspective.  He said that 
looking at Ms Cs finances at the time taking  out the loan was not an unreasonable decision. 
Mr C didnt agree and said the complaint  wasnt whether  the loan was suitable,  but the fact 
she had been  told to take out the loan. He said his mother  confirmed that this followed a 
phone call from the bank.  The bank said it couldnt  find any call recordings from 2015. Mr C 
also wondered  if the loan had insurance against non-payment. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms Cs recollection  of taking out the loan. I can see it was done in her local 
branch and was taken  out on a non-advised basis. That would suggest it was done  at her 
request. However,  I note she says she only took out the loan because she was told she had 
to clear her credit card account. I have looked at this account and I note that it had a credit 
limit of £1,000 and her balance brought forward from 29 June 2015 was £1,003.35.
Ref: DRN75244192This may have prompted her to take out the loan. It is also possible the bank  contacted her 
to ensure she was aware that she had exceeded her limit. However, there is a degree of 
speculation since I have  seen no documentary evidence as to what  happened.  It may well 
be that the bank  reminded  Ms C that she needed to bring her balance  below  the agreed 
limit, but that doesnt mean  that it dictated that she take out one of its personal loans.
Unsurprisingly, given the time which has elapsed the bank has not retained the recording of 
the call.
I can see that Ms C had a history  of borrowing and this was her fifth loan in four years.  That 
would, suggest  she had some understanding of borrowing and some experience of personal 
loans offered by her bank. Furthermore, it is not unreasonable  that she would borrow from 
the bank where  she held other accounts  rather than look elsewhere. So, while it is possible 
the bank prompted her to take out a loan, which as the investigator has pointed out wasnt  
an unreasonable decision,  I cannot  say that it unduly pressurised her to do so. Finally,  I 
would add that I have seen no evidence  of any insurance tied to the loan. 
I appreciate Mr C would  be disappointed by my decision, but I do not consider I can uphold 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 
1 May 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7524419