K822xcomplaint
Mrs E is unhappy about how Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) handled her claim, how they 
communicated with her and with the amount she was offered in settlement of her claim.
background 
Mrs E had travel insurance  with IPA to cover  her for a trip between 28 May and 1 June 2018. 
She travelled to Spain with her family, but on the day she was due to travel home, she had a 
fall and broke her left hip and wrist. Mrs E and her husband remained in Spain while the rest 
of the family travelled home. Back in the UK Mrs Es daughter  reported  the accident  to IPA 
and dealt with the claim  on her behalf.
Mrs E had surgery in Spain which was covered by her European Health Insurance Card  
(EHIC). IPA arranged flights and transportation back to the UK, for her and her husband, 
once it was confirmed  that she was medically  fit to travel home.
Mrs E is unhappy with how her claim was handled by IPA. She says there  were  difficulties 
returning the completed claim forms to IPA, as Mr E didnt have access to a mobile phone or 
an email address. She says this resulted in a four-day delay before the claim process  was 
started. In this time Mr E had no hotel accommodation and had to sleep in a hospital  chair.
When hotel accommodation was arranged for Mr E, initially IPA booked him into a hotel near 
to the wrong hospital, despite  having  the correct  hospital details. And Mrs E says Mr E had 
to move hotel every  two days as, despite  knowing she required a hip replacement, IPA 
would only book him a room  for two days at a time. 
Mrs E is also unhappy about  the sum IPA have offered her in settlement of her claim. She 
raised a complaint with IPA who reviewed the case and accepted they hadnt paid Mrs E the 
full amount she was entitled to, but they maintained that some of the items she claimed for 
werent covered  by her policy. They agreed to make a further payment to cover the 
outstanding items, including hotel  accommodation  on 1 June 2018, the night of the accident. 
Mrs E says she was told that IPA would cover her food. But IPA said she was only covered 
for the same level of accommodation as shed  booked, and as this didnt include her meals, 
she wasnt entitled to claim  for them. 
Mrs E then complained to our service. Before  our investigator considered  the case, IPA 
made an offer of £150  to resolve the complaint,  which Mrs E didnt accept. 
Our investigator considered the case  and said the amounts  Mrs E thought were outstanding 
related to catering costs and an amount paid for extra baggage. She was satisfied that these 
items werent covered by Mrs Es policy. Mrs E had also said that she didnt think  IPA should  
have applied  her policy excess  as she had used her EHIC card and they hadnt had to pay 
any medical costs. Our investigator didnt agree that the excess  had been wrongly applied.
But she accepted  that IPA hadnt provided  the service they should have done, as theyd 
been delays and some  errors and she thought they could have communicated better  with 
Mrs E. So, she recommended  IPA pay Mrs E £300  for the trouble and upset shed suffered.
Mrs E didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN71598722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that having  an accident  just before she was due to return  from holiday, and having 
to have surgery abroad, rather  than returning home with her family would have been  very 
distressing for Mrs E. But I need to consider  the following: 
Whether IPA have paid Mrs E all shes entitled  to in settlement of her claim.
The level of service  IPA provided  Mrs E, including  how they communicated  with her.
IPA accepted that in assessing  Mrs Es claim they hadnt paid her all the money that was 
due to her. They made a further payment of £148.44  in respect  of a medical consultation, 
medication, phone calls and taxis. And they paid £69 in respect  of the hotel shed booked  for
1 June 2018. 
Mrs E believes she is still owed  money in respect of food expenses  and an excess  baggage 
charge and she also believes IPA shouldnt have  applied her policy excess.
Mrs Es policy provides cover for medical  expenses in Europe  that arent covered by the 
reciprocal arrangements in place within the EU with an EHIC. Mrs Es medical expenses 
were met under this arrangement, but this doesnt mean a policy excess  shouldnt have 
been applied.  Shed made a claim under the policy which wasnt  limited  to her medical 
expenses and so Im satisfied the policy excess was payable.
The policy covered Mrs E for reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation 
expenses incurred, up to the standard or your original booking (for example full or half board, 
all inclusive,  bed and breakfast, self catering or room only), if it is medically necessary for 
you to stay beyond  your scheduled return date.  This cover  extended  to Mr E who remained 
with his wife in Spain. Mrs E had been  staying in an apartment, so her original booking  didnt  
cover meals.  Ms E on her behalf has said that she was told these expenses would be met 
once the medical  claim had been  approved. These  expenses werent part of the medical  
claim and Im satisfied the additional expenses for food arent  covered by the policy. And the 
policy doesnt provide cover  for excess baggage.
IPA were advised of the claim on 1 June 2018 by Ms E. On 2 June she called  them to advise 
that her mother had been admitted to hospital  with a broken hip. There  were  some difficulties 
in Mr E sending his wifes medical report to IPA, but I cant  hold IPA responsible  for these. 
When making a claim a customer is required to send all supporting  evidence,  including 
medical reports, to IPA at their own expense. 
When received, the document provided by the hospital was in Spanish,  and had to be 
translated before IPA could  start to review  the claim and confirm  cover.  Once translated the 
document wasnt a medical report and this had to be requested  from the hospital. A medical 
report was received on 4 June  2018 and translated the same day. IPA then called Ms E to 
confirm the claim was covered and accommodation would be arranged for her father.  Before 
they could start to deal with the claim,  IPA had to confirm the claim was covered  and once 
they had the medical report, this was done the same day, so I dont think there was any 
unnecessary delay. I can understand that Ms E would  have  been  anxious until cover was 
confirmed but IPA were  entitled to validate the claim.
Ref: DRN71598723When they booked  a hotel for Mr E IPA did initially make a mistake,  as they one they booked  
was close to the wrong hospital. This must  have  been upsetting, particularly as Mr E would 
have been worried  about his wife. But this was resolved and an hotel near to the hospital 
booked for him. On 10 June 2018 Ms E advised IPA that shed spoken to the hospital  and 
been told her mother would be fit to fly home on 15 June 2018. She wanted her fathers  
accommodation extended to this date.  
From the information IPA have provided  I can see that they immediately contacted  the 
hospital to try and get confirmation  of when Mrs E would be fit to fly on 15 June 2018. During 
this time Ms E was calling  the hospital to try and get information. She was also calling IPA to 
get confirmation that her fathers accommodation  would be extended, and her mothers 
repatriation was being arranged. Im satisfied  having  listened  to the call recordings provided, 
that IPA were actively pursuing information  and trying to make the necessary arrangements. 
But I do think they could  have communicated better with Ms E. Particularly,  as she was in 
the UK trying to confirm arrangements for her parents, who were still in Spain, and when 
they were all anxious about her mothers condition.
As this happened in June, during a busy holiday period, IPA had difficulty  getting 
confirmation from the hotel that Mr Es accommodation could be extended,  and that 
Mrs E could be booked in for the night before she travelled  home. I dont think IPA were 
responsible for these  difficulties but they could have communicated  better with Ms E so she 
could keep her parents  updated. 
Mr and Mrs Es accommodation needed to be extended a further night because a late 
checkout couldnt be arranged. Im satisfied  IPA were doing all they could to arrange  this, but 
again they could have  kept Ms E updated,  so she could advise her parents this was being 
arranged.
Im also satisfied that IPA were taking active steps to arrange Mr and Mrs Es flight and 
transfer home. Including  arranging  for a medical  escort to fly out from the UK to meet them 
and accompany Mrs E home.
So, apart from the mistake with the booking of Mr Es initial hotel  Im satisfied IPA werent 
responsible for any delays  in dealing with Mrs Es claim. But I do think they could have  
communicated better  with Ms E, so she could  update her parents, at a difficult time,  when 
understandably theyd all have been  worried about  Mrs Es health.  And to compensate  
Mrs E for the trouble  and upset she experienced as a result of this I require them  to pay her 
£300 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I uphold  Mrs Es complaint  against 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA. And to put things right I require them  to pay Mrs E £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  experienced, inclusive of the £150  theyve  
already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Ref: DRN71598724Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7159872