K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave him
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr C took out three loans  with UBF and details of these are shown below. The loans were all
repayable by three monthly instalments and have  all been  repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount Number of repayments  
and repayment  amount
1. 15/9/2016 £100 2 monthly payments of 
£45 and one payment  of 
£43.88
2. 10/12/2016 £300 2 monthly payments of 
£140.10 and one monthly 
payment of £136.74
3. 1/5/2017 £500 2 monthly payments of 
£246.92 and one monthly 
payment of £240.73
Mr C said that the loans trapped him in a debt spiral  with repayments  taking so much of his
wages that he had to borrow again to cover his next months expenses.  Mr C said that his
credit report  would have  shown numerous loans  he had already had. There were occasions
when he had up to ten loans at the same  time.
UBF said that each  of Mr Cs applications were affordable at the point of application taking
into account the income and expenditure information  Mr C had provided, and the credit
searches it had performed.
UBF also told this service  that its credit check includes  reports on new account openings,
registered defaults, County Court  Judgements,  and significant changes  to existing accounts,
such as overdue payments, deferrals, extensions and the like. It also assesses the income
and overall indebtedness of a customer,  including their unsecured and secured debt, which  
allows it to confirm their ability to service existing  debt,  as well as the new loan application.  It 
also checks short term lending information  which includes loans which  have only just been 
approved.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She noted that Mr C
had told UBF that he had an income of £1,875 and expenditure  of £1,200 to £1,300. She
said that this information  suggested  that Mr C could sustainably make  the repayments  he
needed to make on the loans. And she didnt  think it wouldve been  proportionate for UBF to
ask Mr C for additional information to show the lending was unaffordable. She also noted
that the loans  were  repaid  early.
Ref: DRN75381682Mr C responded to say that the loans  hadnt been repaid early.  He said that his bank
statements would show that the loans had been paid on the contractual  dates.  Mr C said that
when his contractual payments had finished, hed taken another loan right away to pay other
payday lenders  for the loans hed taken to pay UBFs loans. Mr C said that a simple check
would have shown  how many loans he had at the time plus how much it was going to cost
him at the end of the month. And the fact that the lending  was becoming back to back and
the amounts were  increasing each time showed  he needed more and more  just to cover  the
costs each month due to the amount of interest he would then need  to pay.
The adjudicator responded to say that shed reviewed Mr Cs bank statements and noted
that his repayments were  made on the contractual dates. But she also said that her
outcome remained  the same as the monthly instalment amounts were relatively low in
proportion to Mr Cs declared  income  of £1,875.  And she thought  it was fair for UBF to rely
on the information Mr C had declared  about  his income and expenses. She hadnt seen
anything that shouldve prompted UBF to carry out further checks,  such as verifying the
information Mr C had provided.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to UBF on 8 March 2019. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that UBF was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to make sure 
Mr C could afford to repay each  of the loans  before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to 
be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr C was borrowing, the length  of the
agreements and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks UBF had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr C borrowed from UBF. Its
regulations require lenders to take "reasonable  steps to assess  the customers  ability to
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences."
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue
difficulty, and that this meant borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was repayable by three monthly  instalments of around £45. Id thought about
whether UBFs checks were proportionate before Loan 1. UBF told us that before lending  to
Mr C, it had asked him about his income and outgoings. Mr C had declared a monthly
income of £1,875 and living costs of £1,300. His outgoings consisted  of food of £100, utilities 
of £250, travel of £100, store and credit card payments of £500, mortgage  payments of £300
and other  outgoings of £50. So Mr Cs disposable  income appeared to be £575 and I could
see that the loan repayment amounts for Loan  1 were relatively modest compared to Mr Cs
declared disposable income.
But Id also noted  that UBF had carried out a credit check and it had provided this service 
with the results of that check.  I noted  that the check showed that Mr Cs mortgage payment 
was £278 more than hed declared. The check also showed a payday  loan for £604 to be 
repaid in a single payment.  In  addition, the check showed other loan repayments totalling 
£399 to be made at the same time as Loan 1 as well as credit  card repayments. I thought 
the results of its credit check  might  have suggested  to UBF that Mr C would have insufficient 
Ref: DRN75381683disposable income to repay Loan 1 sustainably. So in view of the results of its credit  check, I 
thought UBF ought  to have gathered a more comprehensive view of Mr Cs circumstances 
and sought some independent verification of these. I couldnt  see that it did this.
Loan 2
Mr C borrowed  Loan 2 around 12 days after hed repaid Loan 1. Loan 2 had increased to
£300 and was repayable  by three monthly instalments of around  £140.
Mr C had again declared a monthly income of £1,875 and his living costs had decreased  to
£1,200. The difference  in living costs was attributable to reduced credit  and store  card
payments of £400.  So Mr Cs disposable  income  appeared to be £675  and I thought this 
might have suggested to UBF that the loan repayment amounts for Loan 2 were affordable
compared to Mr Cs declared disposable  income.
But Id also seen UBFs credit check before Loan  2. Id noted that the check showed  that 
Mr Cs mortgage payment was still £278  more than hed declared. The check appeared to 
show two payday  loans for £186  and £203  to be repaid in a single payment around  the same  
time as Loan  2. In addition, the check showed  other loan repayments totalling  £890 to be
made around the same time as Loan 2 as well as credit card repayments. Id thought the 
results of its credit check might have  again suggested to UBF that Mr C would have 
insufficient disposable income to repay  Loan 2 sustainably. So in view of the results of its 
credit check,  I thought  UBF ought to have  again  independently reviewed the true state of 
Mr Cs finances before giving him this loan. I couldnt see that it did this.
Loan 3
Mr C borrowed  Loan 3 around two months  after hed repaid Loan 2. Loan 3 had increased  to
£500 and was repayable  by three monthly instalments of around  £240.
Mr C had again declared a disposable income of £675 which  again would have appeared
sufficient for Mr C to repay  the repayment amounts  for Loan 3.
But Id again  seen UBFs credit check before Loan  3. Id noted that the check  showed that 
Mr Cs mortgage payment was still £278  more than hed declared. The check appeared to 
show three payday loans for £1,024, £151  and £248  to be repaid  in a single payment around  
the same  time as Loan  3. In addition, the check  showed other  loan repayments totalling  
£284 to be made around the same  time as Loan 3 as well as credit  card repayments. I 
thought the results of its credit check might  have again suggested to UBF that Mr C would 
have insufficient  disposable income  to repay Loan 3 sustainably. So in view of the results of 
its credit  check, I thought  UBF should have again independently checked Mr Cs financial 
situation before giving Loan 3 to him.
Although I didnt think the checks UBF did for Loans 1 to 3 were  sufficient,  that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Cs complaint about  these  should succeed.  I also needed to see whether
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown UBF that Mr C couldnt
sustainably afford the loans. I thought  UBF should  have been  independently  checking  what
Mr C was earning and spending each month.  So Id tried to do this by looking at Mr Cs
bank statements at the time of these loans. The bank statements might not have shown UBF
everything it wouldve  seen by carrying out proportionate checks. But I thought they were the
best indication  of Mr Cs ability  to afford the loans at the time they were  approved.  So I didnt
think it was unreasonable to rely on these.
Ref: DRN75381684Loan 1
Id checked Mr Cs bank  statement  for the month  before Loan 1 to see what  better checks
would have suggested to UBF. Had it done  so UBF would have seen that Mr C was earning
a little less than hed declared, around  £1,735. But, it also would have become aware that
Mr C was gambling heavily, spending over £3,000 on gambling.  And to support this
gambling expenditure, he had taken short term loans that month  totalling  £700. His regular
expenditure was around £1,400. So, if UBF had carried out what I considered to be
proportionate checks before Loan 1, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that
Loan 1 wasnt  sustainable.
Loan 2
Id checked Mr Cs bank  statement  for the month  before Loan 2 to see what  better checks
would have suggested to UBF. Had it done  so UBF would have seen that Mr C was earning
less than declared, around  £1,619.  But, it also would have seen that Mr C was continuing to
gamble heavily, spending over £2,800 on gambling.  And to support this gambling
expenditure, he had taken  short  term loans  that month totalling £650.  His regular
expenditure was around £2,100. So, if UBF had carried out what I considered to be
proportionate checks before Loan 2, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that
Loan 2 wasnt  sustainable.
Loan 3
In the month before Loan  3, I could see that Mr Cs financial position  worsened. His monthly
income was around  £1,637. But his gambling expenditure was almost  £7,000.  And I could 
see that in the month before Loan  3, Mr C had taken  short term lending of £3,700 and his 
regular expenditure appeared to be around £1,250. So, if UBF had carried  out what I 
considered to be proportionate  checks before Loan  3, I thought  it was likely that it would 
have concluded  that Loan 3 wasnt sustainable.
In summary  I didnt think UBF had done enough checks  for any of the loans. I thought 
proportionate checks would have shown UBF the state of Mr Cs finances and that he 
couldnt afford to sustainably repay  the loans. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or UBF my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Uncle  Buck Finance LLP, trading  as 
Uncle Buck,  to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr C paid on Loans 1 to 3;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;  and
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  1 to 3 from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Mr C responded to say that he was happy with my provisional decision and had nothing  else 
to add.
Ref: DRN75381685UBF disagreed. It noted that the mortgage  Id referred to was a joint mortgage  and so it was 
reasonable that Mr C had disclosed  only his proportion  of the repayments. If the mortgage 
payment was £578, it was likely that the repayments would be split between the borrowers. 
So Mr C paid £300 and the joint borrower paid £278.
UBF also said that its credit report suggested  that Mr C hadnt taken out any short term 
loans in the previous six months and that he didnt have an outstanding short term loan 
balance. So the £604 balance Id referred  to might  not have been a short term loan.
UBF also noted that Id referred to credit card commitments. But it said that Mr C had 
included credit commitments in the expenditure amount hed declared to UBF. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note UBFs comments about  Mr Cs mortgage  payments. I wasnt  aware the mortgage was 
a joint mortgage.  As UBF says that the mortgage  was a joint mortgage, I accept that if Mr C 
had declared that he was paying £300  for his mortgage, then it was likely to be the case that 
he was responsible for just £300  of the joint mortgage repayment.
With regard to UBFs comments about the short term loan of £604 Id seen on UBFs credit 
check before  Loan 1, I note that this was taken out on 5 September 2016.  The check  notes 
that the next repayment amount was £604. So I disagree with UBFs statement that its credit 
report suggested that Mr C hadnt taken out any short term loans  in the previous six months.
I note that the credit  check also showed other loan repayments.  Other  short term loans were 
also shown on UBFs credit checks before Loans 2 and 3 as stated above.
With regard to UBFs comments about credit card commitments, I was aware  that Mr C had 
declared credit card commitments within  his declared expenditure to UBF. 
But I think that even  if the additional mortgage  payment of £278 and any credit card 
repayments not declared by Mr C were disregarded,  it was still clear from UBFs credit 
checks that Mr C had other credit commitments to repay which exceeded  his declared 
disposable income for each of the loans. So, as stated above,  I think  UBF should have  
independently checked Mr Cs financial situation before giving him the loans. And if it had 
done so, I think  it was likely that it would have  concluded that the loans werent sustainable.
So overall, I am satisfied  that the proposed resolution in my provisional decision is fair in all 
the circumstances, and I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle Buck, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr C paid on Loans 1 to 3;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;  and
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  1 to 3 from Mr Cs credit  file.
Ref: DRN75381686*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before  28   April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7538168