K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that the vehicle she acquired on finance supplied by Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality. She wants  to reject it and end the agreement.
background
Miss N is represented in this complaint by her partner, Mr K. But for ease  of reading Ill 
mostly refer to her.
Miss N tells us she acquired  the vehicle in May 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as S. She 
says she complained to Santander in October  2018 about several issues  which included 
faulty brake discs;   high  fuel consumption;  a rough  idle; vibrations; clicking  sounds  with the 
clutch; issues with the steering wheel buttons  and a loose auxiliary  connection.
She says the vehicle  was inspected, faults  were found and repairs were  authorised.  She 
says these were done in November 2018  but she wasnt provided with a courtesy vehicle. 
Miss N now says that more issues have  arisen, including  a fault with the clutch,  and some  of 
the previous repairs  have  failed. So she wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Santander told us it had arranged, in November  2018, for the vehicle to be independently 
inspected by A, a company. And - as A had identified faults  which it said were present at the 
point of supply  - Santander  told us it had arranged for repairs to be carried out. T said the 
repair work had been  undertaken by C, a company.
It said in addition to paying for repairs it had compensated Miss N with the equivalent of two 
monthly payments  and £500 towards  associated costs.
Santander said that Miss N had made  a further  complaint in January 2019 about  the vehicle 
going into limp mode. And it had again had the vehicle examined by A. It said A had found 
no faults. Subsequently, when Miss N complained that the vehicle had failed its MOT in 
May 2019 due to brake faults, Santander said there was nothing  to show these were faults 
which had been  present  at the point  of supply or as a result of failed repairs.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that As report 
from February 2019 had shown  the vehicle to be free from faults. But when Miss N reported 
the vehicle had failed its MOT in May 2019, she issued a second view. Again she didnt 
uphold the complaint and said it was up to Miss N to show  the latest faults were present at 
the point of supply or the result of a failed repair.
Miss N didnt agree with the outcome and said the faults repaired in May were  the same as 
the original faults.  And she wanted to reject the vehicle as she didnt have to accept a 
second repair. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman  has been  
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78427732Im sorry  Miss N has experienced some problems with this vehicle. Unfortunately  things  
sometimes go wrong and this is all the more likely with older, high-mileage  vehicles such  as 
the vehicle in this case.
Miss Ns conditional  sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement - similar to 
hire purchase - and our service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. Santander 
supplied the vehicle and its therefore responsible  for a complaint about  the quality of the 
vehicle. Whilst I dont  apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account. And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015 (CRA).
Briefly summarised, this states that in order to conform  to contract, goods should be of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And satisfactory quality is defined  as being what  a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. This takes into account  aspects  such  
as the age, mileage  and overall condition of the vehicle at the time of supply.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is to say, I decide what  is the most 
likely explanation to account for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, we listen  
to what the parties  tell us, and we look to documentary  and other evidence  to help us reach 
a decision. Finally, and importantly,  we look at what is fair and reasonable.
When Miss N contacted Santander  in early October 2018 her complaint related to 
problems including  the brakes seizing  up; the vehicle allegedly being  sold without a valid 
MOT certificate  and the fact that no courtesy car would be provided during the time any 
necessary repairs were carried out. And further  faults were  mentioned  in a form dated 8 
October which also referred to problems  with the clutch; a rough idle; fuel consumption and 
issues with the steering  wheel controls.  
In October  2018 the vehicle was inspected  by A. It found  that faults were present and 
concluded:
The vehicle requires  new rear brake  discs,  pads, possible handbrake cable or calliper.
Further checking into the misfire to confirm what repairs are required. Repair or
replacement of the auxiliary socket. Repairs  to the misfire.
It said that on a balance of probabilities it considered that the faults  were  present or 
developing at the point of supply. The report also stated it found no noticeable faults with the 
clutch or fuel consumption  but said further road testing might  be required.
In November, Santander arranged for repairs to be carried  out by C, a company. The invoice 
shows that rear brake discs and pads were replaced and the brake  calliper was de-seized.  In 
addition the vehicle was given a health check and a fuel filter was replaced.
In early January  2019, Miss N again contacted  Santander  to report further faults and said the 
vehicle kept going into limp mode. Santander  arranged for A to conduct a further inspection  
of the vehicle. This took place on 8 February  2019.  As report said it initially  found  three  fault 
codes which  were cleared  and the vehicle was then road tested. It reported the engine  idle 
was at first erratic but then returned to normal. And that there was no excessive smoke.
The report  stated:
Ref: DRN78427733CONCLUSION
We can conclude at the time of our inspection no reported faults were evident.
The vehicle was in my opinion generally  in keeping with its age and recorded mileage no
defects were noted during the test requiring attention. The vehicles performance,
breaking, suspension and handling  all appeared to be acceptable  for the make  and
model. The vehicle  showed no evidence of excessive  noise, excessive  smoke  emissions
or other defects at the time of our inspection. We were unable  to reproduce  the reported
defects.
Since then Miss N has reported further problems with the vehicle and in May 2019  I can see 
it failed its MOT. The reasons given  for the failure were faults with the parking brake. Miss N 
had the vehicle repaired by C and it passed an MOT on 5 June 2019. I should add that the 
MOT history showed  there was a valid MOT  certificate  in force  at the time the vehicle was 
supplied to Miss N.
The repair invoice, from C, shows the work  carried out included work related to a recall (Hill 
Start assist). And that a handbrake  and calliper had been replaced. Miss N does not seem to 
have been charged for this work.
When Miss N acquired the vehicle  it was about eight  years old with a recorded  mileage  of 
72, 636 miles. In November 2018,  As inspection found the vehicle to have faults - primarily 
in relation to issues  with the brakes. As a general rule, issues  with brakes on older vehicles 
are more likely  to arise from expected wear and tear. And with a vehicle of this age and 
mileage Id expect serviceable  parts would require  replacing from time to time.  Brakes  are 
particularly susceptible to the manner of driving,  terrain and the general use to which  the 
vehicle is subjected. But here - and crucially - A found that the faults  with the brakes had 
been present  at the point  of supply. As a result of this finding Santander correctly  accepted  it 
was responsible for the repairs.
When A again inspected the vehicle in February 2019 it found  no faults to be present. And it 
said the vehicle  was performing in line with expectations, having regard to its age and 
recorded mileage.
Although the vehicle  failed an MOT  in May 2019 over issues  with the parking brake, I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence to show that the faults identified at this time were present at 
the point of supply. The vehicle is recorded  on the day of its MOT  failure as having  covered 
83,989 miles. This means it has travelled  over 11,000 miles since it was supplied  to Miss N.
Ive not seen any information that shows the faults  which caused the MOT failure  were  
present at the point of supply. The independent  inspection showed the vehicle to be free of 
faults in February  2019. The brake  faults which led to the MOT failure occurred  more  than 
six months after the November repairs, in which time the vehicle had travelled another  5,000 
miles. I think  it unlikely the vehicle  could have travelled this far if the faults had been present 
from the time it was supplied to Miss N or if the November repairs  had failed.
So whilst it might be tempting to assume  the cause of the latest failure was the same as that 
found in October  - or the result of failed repairs - I dont think  theres sufficient evidence to 
draw such  a conclusion.
Ref: DRN78427734In summary,  although the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied it was later 
repaired. And in February 2019  it was found to be without faults  and therefore  to conform  to 
contract at that time.
As 12 months have  passed since supply - and in order to uphold her complaint - its for 
Miss N to show  that the vehicle has faults  and that these were present at the point of supply  
or were caused by the repairs failing. 
Although I accept at the time of the MOT the brakes were faulty, Ive not seen any 
information relating  to the most recent  faults to show these were present at the point of 
supply or the result  of the repairs from November  2018 having failed.
As a result of the impaired use of the vehicle experienced by Miss N, Santander  
compensated her with the equivalent of two monthly  payments and an additional £500. I 
think this was fair and reasonable.  And whilst C is not a party to this complaint it seems it 
hasnt charged her for the latest repairs. I dont see thats necessarily an admission of fault, 
as its equally consistent with a business  seeking to extend goodwill to a customer.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss N, Im not upholding this 
complaint
Finally, Im aware  Miss N has raised further  issues during the course of the complaint that 
dont appear to have  been  made  to Santander  in the original  complaint.  These  relate to the 
alleged fronting  of the finance agreement; a dispute about whether her old vehicle had 
been sold for scrap or part-exchanged and her latest  vehicle not coming with a full service  
history.
I cant see Ive been provided with information  about these issues  and if Miss N wishes  to 
take them up with Santander it will need a separate complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7842773