K822xcomplaint 
Mr H says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about 32 short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr H between June 2015 and 
July 2018. The amounts  lent were  between £50 and £950 and Mr Hs borrowing history is 
shown in the appendix at the end of this decision.
Sunny initially offered  to uphold loans 1 to 3 so our adjudicator didnt assess  whether those 
loans should have been given. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  it was unreasonable for Sunny to have given Mr H loan 4. But 
our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint from loan 5 onwards  as he thought the loans 
shouldnt have been given. 
Sunny disagreed. It made  several points about Mr Hs borrowing and withdrew its offer for 
loans 1 to 3. But it did offer to uphold the complaint from loan 19 onwards. It offered to 
refund interest  and charges  plus 8% interest  and remove any negative  information about 
those loans from Mr Hs credit  records. 
Our adjudicator passed the offer onto Mr Hs representative. Mr H didnt agree with the offer 
but didnt make any further comment for my consideration.  As the complaint remains  
unresolved, it has been  passed to me for decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN74508982refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  
I note Sunny originally  made an offer for loans  1 to 3 but subsequently  withdrew  it when it 
made its offer to uphold from loan 19 onwards. The adjudicator hadnt previously 
commented on loans  1 to 3 because  an offer had already been made but did conclude  he 
hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Sunny to have provided loan 4 to Mr H. 
In response to Sunnys offer, Mr H rejected  it but didnt make any comment  on Sunny not 
upholding loans  1 to 3 which it had done  previously. So I can only conclude  that Mr H didnt 
disagree with the amended outcome.  
Ive considered loans 1 to 4, and like the adjudicator  there isnt any reason for me to 
conclude that loans 1 to 4 shouldnt have been  given.  As Ive said above, at the beginning of 
a lending relationship I dont think its unreasonable for the checks to be less thorough. And 
as it was early on in the lending relationship Sunny  was also entitled to rely on the 
information given  to it by Mr H. And the loan repayments didnt take up a significant portion 
of Mr Hs income so taking all of this into consideration  I dont think Sunny was wrong to 
have provided  loans 1  4.   
In response to the adjudicator, Sunny said there should be break in the chain of lending  
between loans 15 and 16. I note the break  between lending  was just under six months, but I 
dont think, in this case, this break is significant  enough to break  this chain of lending. I think 
the number of loans taken  by loan 15, 15 loans  in as many months, and the fact that Mr H 
returned for a significantly greater sum means  that it wouldnt be reasonable for Sunny to 
have believed that there was more than one chain  of borrowing. So for the purpose of this 
decision Ive kept this as one chain  of lending. 
Ref: DRN74508983But as our adjudicator  explained, a proportionate check  for loan 5 would most likely have 
shown that Mr H;
was having  problems managing his money that Sunny knew or out to reasonably  
have known. 
Mr H was carrying out many  betting transactions and while I note Sunnys comment  
that it was not for it to say how Mr H should use his borrowing, but this should have 
flagged up to Sunny that it was questionable whether Mr H could sustainably  make 
the repayments. 
At loan 5 Sunny should already have known  Mr H was making  regular payments to 
Stepchange, so clearly had a history  of problems with managing his money. And he 
was borrowing from elsewhere.
So Sunny should have  been put on notice  that Mr H wasnt able to manage  his borrowing, 
and this should have indicated to Sunny  that Mr H was unlikely to have been able to 
sustainably repay  loan 5 and any future loans. So Mr H lost out as a result. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
9. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr H was not managing  to repay  their 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken  out six loans within three months.  So Sunny ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loans - or other loans he had elsewhere - was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Hs first loan was for £100 and all further loans until loan 6 were for £200.  At  this 
point Sunny ought to have known that Mr H was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. And I say this despite  
Mr H repaying  some  loans early. But this only indicates Mr Hs irregular  financial  
position.
Mr H had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
Ref: DRN74508984I think that Mr H lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Hs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loan 5, and loans  6 to 32, and 
Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 5  32;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  from loans 5  9 from Mr Hs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 9 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan 9 and onwards should be removed  
from Mr Hs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74508985Appendix of loans
Ref: DRN7450898