K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about advice given by Buzzacott Financial Services  Limited (Buzzacott) 
to transfer his deferred benefits in the Digital Pension Plan to a section 32 policy  with AXA 
Sun Life.  
background
Buzzacotts advice was given in 1994. Theres been  much debate about whether Mr Ws 
complaint has been made in time. I issued a further provisional decision on 26 March  2019. 
For the reasons  I set out I said that Mr Ws complaint  hadnt  been made too late. But I went 
on to consider the merits, that is whether the complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
the merits of Mr Ws complaint
I can only apologise again to the parties for the length of time this complaint has been with 
us. For most of that time the focus  has been on whether the complaint is one that we can 
consider. The issues about whether Mr Ws complaint has been  made  in time are complex 
and finely balanced.   
We usually wont look into the merits of the complaint  (that is if it should be upheld or not) 
until weve come  to a settled view about  jurisdiction. 
But in this case, as Mr W and Buzzacott are aware,  before Buzzacott argued the complaint 
had been made too late, Id issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. 
Id taken actuarial  advice  as to whether the critical yield Buzzacott had quoted (having 
obtained a quotation analysis or transfer value  analysis) in its initial  advice to Mr W was 
right, given that it didnt take into account  the fact that Mr W could have  taken unreduced 
benefits from the Digital Pension Plan at age 60. 
Our actuary  carried out a FVT (Financial  Viability Test). The FVT is an actuarial calculation 
of the rate of return on the transfer  value to provide benefits of equal  of equal value to those 
the occupational pension  scheme (here the Digital Pension Plan) would  have provided.  
To explain, during the industrywide Pension  Review,  the FVT was used to assess whether 
the transfer was viable.  The regulator  set down maximum growth rates that a competent  
adviser could reasonably  assume to be achievable.  The maximum rates depended on when 
the transfer took place and the remaining  term to retirement. If the FVT showed  the rate of 
growth required to match  the benefits  given up was higher than the maximum rate set by the 
regulator then the transfer failed the FVT. In that case the advice to transfer was presumed 
to be unsuitable.  
Our actuary  calculated the required return on the transfer value  paid by the Digital Pension 
Plan to age 60 would be 11.1% pa. That was considerably higher than the 8.54% pa quoted  
by Buzzacott  to match (at age 65) the value of the benefits Mr W would be giving up in the 
Digital Pension Plan. That meant the transfer failed the FVT on the basis that the regulators 
maximum permitted  yield - 10.6%  pa (based on complete  years  to age 60)  was exceeded. 
So, based  on our actuarys calculations, the transfer advice given to Mr W failed the FVT by 
some considerable margin. And the FVT showed  the growth rate needed to equal  the 
benefits given  up. In my view there  needed  to be a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement would provide better  benefits   there would  be little point in transferring just to 
Ref: DRN76405612get the same benefits. Id said the transfer  value would need to grow by more  say an extra 
1% - for the transfer to be worthwhile. I didnt think it was reasonable to assume  that level of 
growth would  be achieved: Buzzacott should have realised  Mr W was likely to be worse  off 
in retirement if he transferred and so shouldnt have  recommended  the transfer.   
In the interests  of fairness  and completeness,  weve now revisited the calculations. We 
instructed independent  experts to calculate the FVT.  Ive enclosed  the calculations,  which  
are complex. 
This time the result  was different: at age 60 the critical yield is 9.38% and 8.18% at age 65. 
That means, in both cases, the FVT is a pass. Those rates  compare favourably with the 
regulators maximum permitted rates  10.6% at age 60 and 10.8% at age 65.  
There are two reasons  why the critical yield as determined by our actuary earlier was higher 
than the new calculation.  
First, it seems that the figures for the GMP Mr W had accrued have changed following 
further information from the DSS. This would  have a small effect on the critical yield.
But the bigger issue  is around the increases in payment  of the pension  from the Digital  
Pension Plan. Our actuary had assumed  that in 1994 the Digital  Pension  Plan was providing 
guaranteed pension increases on benefits  in excess of the GMP once  in payment. And that 
the excess over GMP benefits would  increase  at a rate of RPI (subject  to a maximum of 
5%). For guaranteed increases at this level the regulator stated that in 2004 an assumed 
future pension increase  rate of 4.5%  should be used.
But, whilst pensions in payment had been  increased by the Digital Pension Plan prior to the 
transfer, this was on a discretionary  basis. So the increases on the benefits in excess  of the 
GMP werent guaranteed to apply in the future. The regulator had set down a method to 
allow for discretionary pension increases  under the Pension Review. This assumes that 
theres an increasing risk that these increases wouldnt be paid in the future.  
Using the method  set down by the regulator the independent experts have determined that 
in 1994 the appropriate  rate of pension increase to be allowed  was 1.53%. This can be seen 
on Page  18 of the computer output.  Applying  that lower rate of increases to benefits over the 
GMP once in payment  means the required growth  rate for the transfer value to match the 
benefits given  up in the Digital Pension  Plan falls significantly.   
Im satisfied the new calculation is correct.  So the transfer wouldnt have failed the FVT, 
even taking into account Mr W could  have taken unreduced benefits  at age 60. The revised 
FVT means that I would  no longer uphold the complaint on the basis provisionally indicated 
 that Mr W was likely to be worse off if he transferred. Instead it now seems there was a 
reasonable prospect hed be better off.  
Passing the FVT doesnt, of itself, mean  the transfer was suitable. That will also depend on 
the individuals circumstances at the time and taking into account factors  such as appetite for 
risk and capacity for loss. Wed also look at whether the advice was clear and not 
misleading.  And wed take into account any other relevant circumstances  for example, the 
note of the meeting on 20 June 1994 records  that Mr W particularly wanted to transfer out of 
the Digital Pension Plan in  view of the reductions made to pensioners benefits and that the 
transfer value  would  be reduced  if the transfer  was delayed.  I note Hill Martin  identified the 
situation with the Digital Pension Plan as a relevant consideration in assessing the suitability 
Ref: DRN76405613of the advice to transfer, and I agree that would  be a relevant consideration that could tend 
to show the advice was suitable. 
And where,  as here, the advice was given some  time ago, wed judge  it against the industry  
standards and what we consider to have been good practice at the time. And we cant  take 
into account that investment conditions throughout the period of Mr Ws investment havent  
been as favourable as expected. 
The advice may not have  been as detailed as wed expect now. But in 1994 there  was no 
requirement for a suitability letter. Further,  the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules  (COBS 
19.1.6(G)(2)) now say theres  a presumption that a transfer out of a defined  benefit final 
salary scheme will be unsuitable. A firm must be able to demonstrate that such  a transfer is 
in the clients best interests.  But that wasnt the starting point in 1994. 
The FIMBRA (Financial Intermediaries,  Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association)  rules 
included the following:  
4.4.4 Subject to the following provisions of this Rule 4.4, in the case of a transaction relating 
to a life policy or a pension contract  or collective investments,  a member shall not 
recommend such a transaction nor arrange or effect such  a transaction on behalf of a client  
 unless the member believes, having  exercised reasonable care in forming its belief, that 
no transaction in any other such investment of which the member is or ought  reasonably  to 
be aware, and which  would be available from the same  or a different source, would be likely 
to secure the objectives of the client more advantageously than the transaction  
recommended, arranged or effected  by the member;
So the key test was whether transferring out of the Digital Pension Plan was likely to secure  
Mr Ws objectives more advantageously  than would be the case if he didnt transfer.  
Based on what Ive said about the likelihood of Mr W being better off if he transferred I think  
that test was met.  
In saying that I recognise that some advisers at the time would have advised against  
transferring, particularly in view of Mr Ws length  of service (some sixteen years)  and 
especially if he didnt have any other pension provision (aside from his state benefits). But 
the revised FVT indicates there was a reasonable prospect hed be better off if he 
transferred. And he still had time to make further pension provision. Mr Ws told us that by 
the time the transfer went ahead (at the end of June 1994)  hed been  with his new employer 
since October 1993 and he joined their pension scheme.  
From what  Ive seen my provisional  view is now that I dont think  Mr Ws circumstances were 
such that he should have been advised  against  transferring. 
On that basis I now dont think Id be able to say Buzzacotts advice was unsuitable, even 
though Mr W may have lost out financially as a result.   That means that my current  view is 
that I wouldnt uphold  the complaint, even though I think its been made in time.   
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr W and Buzzacott replied. Buzzacott said it was limiting its response to what Id said 
about jurisdiction.  Buzzacotts main points were:
Ref: DRN76405614The test under DISP  2.8.2R (2) (b) was the equivalent of section 14A of the 
Limitation Act. In Haward & Ors v Fawcetts (a firm) [2006]  UKHL 9 the court said the 
degree of required  knowledge was enough  for it to be reasonable to begin to 
investigate further. 
That test was met no later than when Mr W decided to begin to investigate further 
by seeking advice from different financial advisers  in 2004. He could have instead 
complained to Buzzacott and, if he wasnt satisfied, to this service or taken court 
action. There was nothing he didnt know then that meant  he was unable  to complain. 
He decided against because he thought the complaint  lacked merit. Sufficient 
knowledge doesnt mean  knowing a claim is likely to succeed. And, once the three 
year time period starts,  it cant be stopped (only suspended as result  of a pension  
review under DISP  2.8.5R).
Nothing relevant  occurred  in the three years before  Mr W complained  in 2010. He 
didnt learn anything new. Even if TPAS told him (and different to what the firm hed 
consulted in 2004 had said) that a claim was likely to succeed  thats immaterial.
If a complainant approaches an expert and is given inadequate advice which means  
they dont bring an otherwise meritorious  complaint within  the three year period they 
may be able to rely on exceptional  circumstances  - see DISP 2.8.2(3). But that 
doesnt help Mr W: given  the revised  FVT calculation the advice in 2004 was good. 
Mr W wrote  on 24 April 2019. He was pleased  Id said we could consider the complaint. But 
he had a number  of questions about  what Id said about the merits and the new FVT. I wrote  
to Mr W on 15 May 2019 clarifying the issues hed raised. He emailed us on 26 June 2019. 
He said that for nine years Buzzacott had argued vehemently that we didnt  have 
jurisdiction to consider  his complaint  but now, given the new FVT calculation, was content 
that the complaint could be considered as it wasnt going to be upheld. He said hed found it 
difficult to reconcile the two FVT calculations. But, if I was convinced the new calculation 
absolved Buzzacott of any mis-selling, he had no further comments.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Again Id like to apologise to both parties 
for the time taken to deal with this complaint. 
Ive considered whats been said in response to my further provisional decision. Contrary  to 
what Mr Ws said, Buzzacott isnt happy that the complaint can be considered   Buzzacott 
continues to argue very strongly  that the complaint  has been made too late. 
As Ive said before that issue  is very finely balanced. This case  has raised complex and 
finely balanced jurisdiction issues resulting  in wide ranging and detailed arguments. 
Ive considered Buzzacotts most recent  arguments. I dont agree that section 14A of the 
Limitation Act is directly analogous  to DISP 2.8.2R (2) which is the provision  Im required to 
apply in deciding  if a complaint has been made in time. For the reasons Ive explained 
elsewhere and at some length, I still think that Mr Ws complaint hasnt been made too late 
and we can consider  it.
But, that said, my view, and in the absence of any further arguments as to the merits, 
remains as set out above. That means,  although  I think we can consider the complaint,  Im 
not going to uphold it.  
Ref: DRN76405615Ive noted what  Mr Ws said about the two FVT calculations. The initial FVT undertaken by 
our actuary indicated that the growth  rate (critical yield)  required to match  the benefits Mr W 
had given up in the Digital Pension Plan and taking  into account he could retire at age 60 
without reduction for early  payment was considerably higher than Buzzacott had indicated  
11.1% against  8.54%  quoted by Buzzacott.  
But, as Ive explained above,  our actuary  had assumed that in 1994  the Digital Pension Plan 
was providing guaranteed pension increases on benefits in excess of the GMP once in 
payment. But, although  pensions in payment  had been increased  prior to the transfer, this 
had been on a discretionary basis and so future increases werent  guaranteed.  Applying the 
appropriate lower  rate of increases to benefits (in excess of the GMP)  in payment reduced 
the required growth rate significantly  it was less than the regulators maximum permitted 
yield. That meant that, at the time,  there was a reasonable prospect that Mr W would be 
better off by transferring. And, considering  his personal and financial circumstances at the 
time, I didnt  think he should  have  been  advised against transferring. For the reasons I set 
out in my further  provisional decision and recapped above I didnt think  the advice to transfer 
was unsuitable.   
Thats still my view.  On that basis I dont  think the complaint can be upheld. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7640561