K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about the salvage fee Markerstudy  Insurance  Company Limited 
deducted from a total loss settlement  it paid her when she claimed under her car insurance 
policy. 
background
Mrs H bought a car insurance policy with the insurer, Markerstudy. In February 2019 she 
damaged her car and made a claim.  Markerstudy said Mrs Hs car wasnt  economical to 
repair. So it declared  her car a total loss and categorised the write off as N which means 
non-structural damage. 
In March 2019 Mrs H called to ask Markerstudy if she could retain her car. It said she could  
 but that it would deduct 33% of the total loss settlement as its salvage  fee. It said this is 
what it would  have  received from the salvage  agent  if Mrs H didnt keep her car. 
Markerstudy emailed Mrs H a letter confirming the salvage fee as discussed. But it 
incorrectly quoted  the salvage fee as the excess sum of £250. The correct salvage  fee  as 
the agent had told Mrs H  was £1,122. This was 33% of the total loss settlement of £3,400.
Mrs H complained to Markerstudy.  It apologised   but said the higher salvage fee was 
correct.
In April 2019 Markerstudy said it would reduce the salvage fee to 26% - and paid Mrs H 
£100 compensation for the confusion it caused by its letter. 
Mrs H remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at her complaint. She wanted Markerstudy to 
reduce the salvage fee to £250.
Our investigator explained that when things  go wrong, we look at what  an insurer did to put 
things right. This doesnt  mean that an insurer has to stand by its error.  As Markerstudy had 
reduced the salvage fee to 26% and paid Mrs H £100 compensation  along with a total loss 
settlement which  was more than the average of the main motor trade guides  she thought  
Markerstudy had done enough to resolve  Mrs Hs complaint.  
Mrs H didnt agree. She doesnt believe the amount Markerstudy has deducted  reflects  the 
true salvage  fee. She said she contacted the salvage agent and they gave her a price  of 
£250. 
So Mrs H would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
When an insurer allows a consumer to retain  the salvage it will usually deduct what it would 
have received when disposing  of the salvage.  Insurers can have favourable  commercial  
arrangements with salvage  agents.  This means  that its possible for an insurer to achieve a 
more favourable return for salvage than a consumer might get for the same vehicle. 
Ref: DRN72043782Any commercial arrangement an insurer has with a salvage agent is deemed  as business 
sensitive. And so we cant share this information with the consumer. But we can ask the 
insurer to provide us with evidence of the agreement it has - so that we can be satisfied its 
acted reasonably. 
Its a general principle of insurance that when  an insurer  pays  out for a total loss, it gets to 
retain the damaged item if its available or if its stolen and recovered. 
The reason  for this is that we have  to decide whats fair and reasonable overall and it 
wouldnt be fair for an insurer to lose out as a result  of the consumer keeping their car.
In this case, Markerstudy wrote to Mrs H on 1 March  2019 and incorrectly  said the salvage 
fee would  be £250. However, in a call on 4 March 2019, Markerstudy  said that the salvage 
fee would  be £1,122.  The agent explained  that the deduction equated  to 33% of the total 
loss settlement and this was the amount Markerstudy would  have received from the salvage 
agent. The agent also explained  that the deduction  is a percentage depending on the 
category and value  of the vehicle. 
The agent  agreed to email  Mrs H a breakdown  of the settlement, excess  and salvage fee. 
Markerstudy sent an additional letter on the same day to Mrs H quoting  the correct salvage 
fee. Mrs H complained to Markerstudy.
Markerstudy has provided us with evidence to show that it would have received £1,122 if 
Mrs H hadnt retained  her car under its commercial agreement with the salvage company. 
Markerstudy did cause Mrs H some confusion by sending its letter confirming a salvage fee 
of £250. This was an error. But its shown that the original salvage fee it intended  to deduct 
was an amount it would  have  otherwise  received. 
When things go wrong,  we generally think  the insurer should put the customer back  in the 
position they would have  been  had it not made  the mistake. We dont necessarily think that 
the outcome should be to stand by the error - but we think an insurer  should compensate  a 
customer if its error has caused distress and inconvenience. 
To say sorry for the confusion it caused over a period of three days, Markerstudy  apologised 
to Mrs H. And it offered  to reduce the salvage fee to 26% and pay Mrs H £100 
compensation. 
So in this case, I think Markerstudy dealt with Mrs Hs complaint in a reasonable way. I 
understand Mrs H will be disappointed  with my decision. But this means  I dont think  it needs 
to reduce the salvage fee to £250.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN72043783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7204378