K820x#14complaint
Mr H had a motor insurance policy underwritten by Zenith  Insurance  plc when his car was 
damaged by another vehicle. He says Zeniths service was poor, and caused delays.
 
background
Mr H says he had stopped at a junction in a side road when the other  driver made a sharp  
right turn into it from the main road. Mr H says his van damaged the rear corner  of Mr Hs car 
on the drivers side. Mr H told Zenith  about the incident on 15 October 2018. He said he 
didnt want to claim on his policy as the other driver was wholly at fault. He gave Zenith 
contact details for two witnesses. In December 2018  Mr H complained to Zenith about its 
delay in contacting the witnesses and in resolving  the matter  in his favour.  
Zenith replied to Mr Hs complaint in January 2019.  It said it had put his version of events to 
the other insurer, but it wouldnt  accept full liability. The other driver said Mr H was to blame 
for the accident.  Zenith  said only one of Mr Hs witnesses had provided a statement. It 
apologised to Mr H for the offence caused  by a letter it had sent to him asking for further 
details of the witnesses. It had queried whether they were independent. Mr H took that to be 
a query  about  his honesty or that of the witnesses. Zenith offered Mr H £75 compensation 
for the upset caused by its letter, but it didnt accept that it had caused delays.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint. He thought  Zenith had pursued the 
other insurer about liability for the accident and hadnt caused  undue delay. And he thought 
Zenith had offered reasonable  compensation for the upset caused  to Mr H by its letter. 
Mr H said Zenith was deliberately avoiding negotiations  with the other  insurer on liability. He 
thought Zenith hoped hed give up and pay for the damage himself  or make a claim on his 
policy. Mr H said he didnt want to do that as hed lose his no claims discount (NCD). As 
there was no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Mr H wants Zenith to pay for the repairs to his car. Zenith has told him its happy to do so, 
but Mr H must first make  a claim on his policy. As Mr H wont  do that, I think its reasonable 
for Zenith not to pay for the repairs. 
Within two weeks of being  told about  the accident,  Zenith had contacted the other  insurer  on 
Mr Hs behalf. It put forward Mr Hs account of the incident and held the other driver fully at 
fault. The other insurer offered a 50:50 split on liability,  but that wasnt  what  Mr H wanted.
The other insurers response was outside  Zeniths  control. Zenith couldnt take any further 
action because Mr H hadnt made  a claim  on his policy.  Zenith  had no costs to try to recoup 
from the other insurer.  
Mr H wasnt happy that Zenith didnt  contact his witnesses earlier.  I can see that it wrote to 
the witness it had an address  for on 10 December 2018. It also tried to call both witnesses 
on 13 December 2018. The witness  Zenith spoke to said she thought the other  driver was 
wholly at fault.  Zenith sent her statement to the other insurer. It looks as though  there was a 
delay in that insurer responding. When it did respond, it said that as the witness  knew Mr H, 
Ref: DRN79105952she wasnt independent.  Thats what Zenith had expected, as its the way a court  would view 
the situation. The other insurer didnt  change its stance on liability. 
I think Zenith could have contacted Mr Hs witnesses earlier than it did, but I dont think that 
would have made any difference to the outcome. The other insurer wasnt prepared to move 
on the 50:50 offer it had made. I dont think there was anything else Zenith could do unless 
Mr H made  a claim on his policy. Zeniths notes  show that it tried to explain to Mr H that if he 
made a claim, Zenith would repair his car. Mr H would then have to pay his policy excess, 
but 50% of that would be refunded by the other  insurer. 
I understand why Mr H doesnt want to claim on his policy,  as hes adamant the accident 
wasnt his fault.  So he doesnt want to pay any of the policy  excess  or lose his NCD. But he 
cant claim on the other drivers policy, as the other  driver doesnt accept full liability.  So the 
only alternatives to making a claim on his own policy are for Mr H to pay for the repairs and / 
or to start legal  proceedings himself. 
I dont think Mr H can show that Zenith has caused undue  delay. And although he thinks its 
avoiding getting  the other  insurer to accept full liability, I dont think  thats the case.  From 
what Ive seen, Zenith has done all it can do. It cant force the other insurer to accept full 
liability. If Mr H had made a claim - and Zenith thought it could argue his case  successfully in 
court  no doubt  it would  consider doing so. But Zenith still has no claim from Mr H to 
pursue, so it hasnt had to decide how best to handle it. 
I think Zenith acted reasonably in paying  Mr H £75 for the upset caused to him by its letter  
about his witnesses. As I dont think it has acted unreasonably in relation to any other issue, 
I cant uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I must ask Mr H to accept or reject my 
decision before  13 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7910595