K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs I say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Is circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr and Mrs Is representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Is. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Is complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mr and Mrs I 
about the commission it received - so BoS doesnt need to pay back  any of the commission 
Mr and Mrs I paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has paid back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI, so I dont think it needs  to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs I didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out. I say this because while BoS no longer has the paperwork from Mr and Mrs 
Is sale, it has referred us to examples, which it says is representative of what  Mr and 
Mrs I wouldve seen when they took out their mortgage and PPI. And this shows  that a 
consumer wouldve understood they had a choice about PPI and they wouldve had to 
agree to take it out.
Ref: DRN78607892So in the absence of anything to persuade  me that Mr and Mrs I saw something very 
different when they took out their policy, I think its likely they chose to take it out and did 
so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs I, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Is circumstances at the time, shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example  Mr I as the 
person covered by the policy  was eligible for the cover and although they had some 
existing means, they seem to have still had a need  for cover.  In reaching this conclusion  
Im mindful that the policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  for each claim, which  is 
longer than Mr I would have received full sick pay for. His statutory  redundancy 
entitlement was also less than 24 months income.  
There was also nothing  about Mr Is employment or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And while Mr I was in good health,   in any event the exclusion 
for existing  medical  conditions didnt apply to Mr and Mrs I because  they took out the 
policy at the same time as their mortgage.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs I about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs I as I concluded 
above or too dissimilar  to what  they reasonably thought they were buying  from the 
information they was/were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems  like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Is circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs I would have still taken out PPI. 
The policy was sufficiently  close to what they thought they were getting and I think  the policy  
could provide a useful  benefit in a difficult  time, given their circumstances at the time. And in 
those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely  than not that they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Is representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  BoS should  
have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Is representative has not said how these  points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Is individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
Ref: DRN78607893I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Is particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs I.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs  to 
do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Is representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs I should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  BoS failed to tell Mr and Mrs I about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs I wouldnt have taken  
out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Is PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Is case  
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN78607894I dont think BoS needed  to tell Mr and Mrs I about the commission. So it follows  that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mr and Mrs 
I unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs I back any of the commission they paid for 
the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give Mr and Mrs I back some of the cost of the PPI and 
has compensated Mr and Mrs I as if it had treated them  unfairly. So I dont think  it needs to 
do anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Is complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs I paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs I. BoS should  now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs I if it hasnt  done  so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7860789