K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs J used to hold with The Mortgage  Business 
Plc (TMB).  They re-mortgaged in 2017  to another lender  within the same business group, on 
a lower rate. Mr and Mrs J believe TMB  should  have helped  them  do this much  earlier,  
arguably in 2013.  Theyre  looking for redress in excess of £170,000,  to compensate  them for 
the extra interest theyve paid since 2013.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs J when my 
decision is published.
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage was already with TMB when it became a closed lender in 2008; 
thats a lender that no longer provides new mortgages or new deals for existing borrowers. In 
2013, Mr and Mrs J asked  TMB  about  a new rate and were told it couldnt  help them.  TMB 
suggested they apply directly to another lender in the same business group  which  Ill call H 
- or approach an independent broker to arrange a re-mortgage.
Mr and Mrs J applied through a broker for a mortgage with a different  lender altogether,  
which Ill call C. This hit problems because of adverse information TMB had recorded on 
their credit files about their mortgage payment history.  Mr and Mrs J brought  a complaint  to 
us about that, and one of my ombudsman  colleagues  upheld it in part. 
Briefly, she concluded  that the credit file information was incorrect and should be amended,  
and that TMB should pay Mr and Mrs J £900  compensation. But she wasnt convinced  that 
the incorrect information was the sole reason for their difficulty  in getting a new mortgage.
Mr and Mrs J made  a fresh complaint to TMB in 2017 and this time were referred to a 
specialist department which helped them arrange  a re-mortgage to another in-group lender 
that Ill call B. This went through in September 2017,  and Mrs and Mrs J have reduced their 
monthly instalments  substantially. However, they believe they should  have been allowed to 
do this in 2013. 
Our investigator didnt  think TMB  had failed to do what it could do to help Mr and Mrs J in 
2013. She explained that the specialist facility that helped  them  in 2017 hadnt existed in 
2013, and the options it suggested at the time had been correct.  The investigator also 
explained that she couldnt  revisit the conclusions reached by the ombudsman in the 2015 
complaint about  the information  TMB  had put on Mr and Mrs Js credit  file.
 
Mr and Mrs J asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They dont  accept 
that there  should  be a distinction between TMB  and the other  mortgage  lenders in the Lloyds 
Banking Group. They believe the Group  as a whole is at fault.
Ref: DRN78656302my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
I mention the latter because  theres  been  an extensive  dialogue  between  Mr and Mrs J and 
the investigator about the identity of the business being complained about. So that theres  no 
further ambiguity,  our rules only allow us to consider a complaint brought  against  a financial 
business if its a business covered by our scheme.  Where several  businesses  are owned by 
the same  wider business group, it is the individual businesses  and not the wider group - 
that are covered  by our scheme. 
Applying that rule to the case at hand,  TMB is owned by Lloyds Banking Group, but it is TMB 
that is covered  by our scheme. Its also TMB that provided the financial service  from which  
the complaint  has arisen. I take Mr Js point about  TMB ceasing  to employ staff directly; that 
simply means that staff employed elsewhere in the group  carried  out account administration  
on behalf of TMB  effectively as its agent. 
If Mr and Mrs J want the scope of their complaint to included alleged acts and omissions by 
H or B (or indeed Lloyds  Banking Group itself at the higher level) then our service might not 
be the most  appropriate  forum for them. Ill come  back to that point in due course
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs J. Ive reached  broadly the same  conclusions as the investigator.
The starting point  is that no borrower is entitled  to a lower rate; lenders have to consider 
context and individual circumstances in all cases,  and follow the rules and standard practice 
of the time. The way in which closed lenders are expected to help their customers  has 
evolved substantially  over time, as the regulator  of mortgage business has introduced new 
rules aimed at reducing the number of borrowers  trapped  on an uncompetitive rate. 
Its those new rules  that allowed TMB to help Mr and Mrs J move lenders in 2017.  The same  
duty and expectation hadnt  existed in 2013. Assessed against  the requirements of the time, 
TMBs response in 2013 wasnt unfair  or unreasonable.
Whilst I appreciate how frustrated Mr and Mrs J must have felt by the events between 2013 
and 2017, I cant  consider  the impact those  events may have had on their efforts to get a 
better rate here. Mr and Mrs J brought that complaint to us before, and it was decided  at the 
time by a fellow ombudsman. It would  be quite inappropriate for me to revisit and 
second- guess what another ombudsman has already decided.
Mr and Mrs J dont have to accept  my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
TMB will be bound by my final decision.  Subject to any time limits  or other  restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr and Mrs Js right to take legal action against  TMB   or indeed Lloyds 
Ref: DRN78656303Banking Group generally if they wish - over the subject matter of this complaint wont have 
been prejudiced by our consideration of their complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7865630