K820x#14Complaint
Mr X complains that Embark  Services Limited (Embark) failed to carry out due diligence 
when he started a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP) in 2010. He thinks Embark 
shouldnt have accepted his application as it was submitted by a non-UK based adviser and 
shouldnt have allowed  unregulated investments to be made within his SIPP.
Background
In 2010, Mr X was residing in Switzerland.  He held around £500,000 within  a UK company 
defined contribution pension scheme. Following advice from a Swiss firm of financial 
advisers  Ill call it Firm A in this decision Mr X transferred his pension  into a SIPP  with 
Embark. The pension monies were invested in an offshore investment bond with Royal 
Skandia. This bond was then used as a vehicle  to invest  in various funds over a period of 
around four years. The investments included two student accommodation funds that appear  
to have been unregulated  collective investment schemes (UCIS) and other investments in 
funds with Castlestone  that were  also unregulated  in the UK.
The investments in the student accommodation funds were suspended in 2013 and it 
appears that Mr X has suffered losses. Mr X then changed advisers in 2014  to a UK based 
regulated firm. 
Mr X complains that Embark  has treated  him unfairly and is responsible for the losses he 
has suffered as a result  of the investments  made in the SIPP.  He said Embark shouldnt  
have accepted the application for the SIPP as Firm A wasnt authorised to give financial  
advice and later went  into liquidation in 2012.  He says that Firm A re-registered in the 
Seychelles at that point.  
Mr X also says that Embark failed to carry out appropriate  due diligence on the investments 
made in the SIPP  and had failed to prevent large fees being paid out. 
Embark doesnt accept that it is responsible  for Mr Xs losses.  It says it carried out 
enhanced checks on Firm A in 2010 and had no concerns  about  the company.  It says it 
carried out appropriate due diligence on the investments by reference to the regulators 
guidance and rules at the time.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and didnt think it should succeed. He 
thought Embark had carried  out adequate  due diligence on Firm A before accepting the 
application. And he noted there was no requirement for a SIPP  provider to check the 
suitability of advice  given to an individual. 
Mr X didnt agree. In summary, he said:
Embark had obligations to carry out due diligence  on Firm A and the investments in 
the SIPP.
He said he found out in 2014 that Embark  had made a decision to no longer deal with 
Firm A. It should have  refused to accept introductions from Firm A from the outset.
He also didnt think the adjudicator had considered the transactions within the SIPP  
which led to him investing in UCIS  funds after the sale of these to individuals had 
been banned by the then regulator,  the Financial Services  Authority (FSA).  As 
Ref: DRN79162092Embark countersigned all purchase orders, it must be held responsible for these 
investments.
He also noted  that Embark  had admitted it didnt know Firm A had gone into 
liquidation in 2012. Embark should have stopped dealing  with Firm A after this point, 
in which  case he wouldnt have been exposed to the UCIS funds, some of which 
were made after this time. 
The turnover of his pension portfolio was £1.4m  in three and a half years.  In many  
cases the funds  were held for less than a year, and two of the funds held for less 
than four months. He now understands that Firm As mode of operation was to use a 
SIPP to obtain  large up-front  commissions and then churn the portfolio  to generate 
extra fees. 
Embark also provided some additional comments: 
It agreed with the adjudicators view of the complaint and didnt think this should 
change or be looked  at again.
The position in relation to the exercise of due diligence has to be judged  at the time 
of Mr Xs original investment, and not in relation to any later changes  in regulation. 
It had undertaken  enhanced due diligence because Mr Xs financial adviser  wasnt  
regulated by the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority. The measures it 
took represented best practice at the time. 
There was nothing  unusual about Mr X, as a resident in Switzerland, appointing a 
Swiss-based adviser. 
Embarks duties  to carry out due diligence in respect of the investments were limited  
to ensuring that they could legitimately be held in the SIPP and it checked HMRC 
guidelines to ensure  the investments were permissible.
Each time Mr X wanted to change  his investments in the SIPP, instructions were 
received from his adviser. In general, where  further investment instructions are 
received the vetting  process is the same as that applied to new investments. That is, 
checks are carried out to ensure they can be held in a SIPP.  
The matter  was then passed to me for review. On 9 December 2019 I issued a provisional 
decision in which I explained  why I wasnt planning  to uphold Mr Xs complaint. In summary,  
I said:
As a preliminary issue, I was satisfied that it was right that Mr Xs complaint should 
be subject to a final decision  and shouldnt have been closed after the adjudicators 
assessment.
As a SIPP operator, Embark had regulatory duties and obligations  to treat Mr X fairly. 
In the circumstances of this case,  this meant that Embark  needed  to carry out due 
diligence on both Firm A and the investments held in Mr Xs SIPP.
I was satisfied that Embark carried out appropriate due diligence  on Firm A at the 
time of Mr Xs application in 2010 and that it was fair to accept his introduction  by 
Ref: DRN79162093Firm A even though  it was not a UK regulated firm. I explained that Firm A didnt 
need to be authorised in the UK to give Mr X advice in Switzerland.
Embark ought to have  carried out ongoing and periodic due diligence on Firm A. Had 
it done so, I think it would have (or ought to have) identified  that Firm A had gone into 
liquidation in 2012 and was operating  as a Seychelles registered  company from that 
point onwards. But, despite this, I didnt think this failure had had a material  impact  as 
Embark could still fairly accept instructions from Firm A even though it had re-
registered. 
Embark ought to have  carried out independent due diligence  on all the investments  
that were to be held in Mr Xs SIPP. Although there was no evidence that it had done 
this, I didnt think there was reason to believe that carrying  out checks at the relevant 
time would  have revealed grounds  to refuse to accept these investments. Most of the 
investments were in standard funds and there was nothing about  the UCIS  
investments which should have raised  cause for alarm.
Mr X had signed all the investment instruction forms confirming his agreement  to pay 
fees and commissions  to Firm A from the SIPP. I thought  Embark could fairly 
proceed on the basis that Mr X agreed to payment of the fees and that any complaint 
about this might  be better directed to Firm A or Royal Skandia.
Embark didnt have anything further  to add. But Mr X has made further submissions for my 
consideration which can be summarised  as follows:
Mr X said that he had not known that Firm A had gone  into liquidation until 2014.  It 
was only then that he realised that there  might  be an issue  with Firm A and 
discovered that large fees and commissions had been  taken and that some  of the 
UCIS funds had been suspended.
Embark stopped accepting instructions from Firm A in 2014.  This was clear  evidence 
that it too recognised that there was a problem with that firm. Mr X (and our service) 
had a right to know why Embark  changed its mind in 2014 and why this decision to 
refuse instructions  from Firm A wasnt taken from the outset  in 2010.
Mr X had no recourse against  Firm A which was no longer trading  or against Royal 
Skandia  who refused to deal with him. My decision would mean that an overseas 
advice firm using this type of arrangement would leave consumers without any 
avenue for compensation.
Castlestone had been subject to a raid by the then UK regulator and many UK 
investment platforms including Royal Skandia (in the UK) stopped  accepting  funds 
managed by Castlestone. This should have been a red flag to Embark.
There was no evidence that Embarks due diligence on Firm A was enhanced or 
that it had verified the documents that had been  provided by Firm A. 
My findings
Embark hasnt substantively responded to my provisional findings but, for the avoidance of 
doubt, I remain of the view that it is right that I issue a final decision and that Mr Xs 
complaint shouldnt have been  closed after the adjudicators  assessment.  
Ref: DRN79162094Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Xs 
complaint  essentially for the same reasons  set out in my provisional decision.  Ill explain 
this below.
In accordance with my duty under section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA), I must determine  this complaint  by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case .  When considering what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  Im required to take into account  relevant 
considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance and 
standards; and codes  of practice.  Im also required to take into account,  where  appropriate, 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the time. 
I consider the following  to be relevant  considerations in this complaint.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance  to my decision on whats
fair and reasonable in this case.  The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, 
are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
In British Bankers  Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services Authority & 
Anor, Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
Ref: DRN79162095In the recent decision of Berkeley Burke Sipp Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman 
Service Limited [2018] EWHC 2878  (Admin) (30 October 2018), Jacobs J said of section  228 
FSMA:
Under that section,  it is for the Ombudsman  to decide what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the case.  Here, [the ombudsman who issued the decision in 
the case that was the subject of judicial review] paid regard (as DISP  3.6.4R requires  
him to do) to the relevant regulators rules, namely Principles 2 and 6. The decision 
as to how those  Principles apply "in all the circumstances of the case" must  be a 
matter for him.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
time. They provide  the overarching framework for regulation and must always be complied 
with by businesses.  As such, I need  to have regard to them  when deciding  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Rule 2.1.1 COBS is also relevant and says that:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
This is a rule that was consulted on by the regulator  and provides a high level standard  that 
all firms must adhere to when transacting business with any consumer 
The FSA and the FCA have made  a number  of publications which remind SIPP operators of 
their obligations  and set out how they might  achieve the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. 
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2009 (the 2009 report).
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2012 (the 2012 report).
A guide for Self-Invested Personal  Pensions  (SIPP) operators published by the FCA in 
October 2013 (the 2013 guidance). 
A letter from the FCAs Director of Supervision sent to the CEOs of all SIPP  operators  in 
July 2014 (the 2014 Dear CEO letter).
I think these too are relevant considerations in this complaint. I have considered them  in both 
determining what the regulator expected of firms and also in determining  what amounted to 
good industry practice. 
Ive quoted selected parts publications  below which I think are of particular relevance. But to 
be clear,  Ive considered  them in their entirety. 
The 2009  report  included  the following:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are 
Ref: DRN79162096obliged to ensure  the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS  purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes  clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP  operators to 
continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves and their clients,  with 
reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures  and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify  possible  instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable  SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting  the member  to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover,  while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent  that they had not identified obvious potential instances  of 
poor advice  and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts  and 
circumstances of individual  cases,  we may take enforcement action against  SIPP  
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate  risk 
management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed  and suggestions  we have made  to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated  by the FSA, that they have  the 
appropriate permissions  to give the advice  they are providing to the firms  
clients, and that they do not appear  on the FSA website listing  warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.  
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced  the business.  This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate  clarification, e.g. from the client  or their 
adviser, if it is concerned  about  the suitability  of what was recommended.
Ref: DRN79162097Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving  advice. While  SIPP operators are not responsible  for 
advice, having  this information would  enhance  the firms understanding  of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable  SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility  for their investment  decisions and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such  business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the 
reasons for this.
The 2012  report  included  the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business, states a firm must conduct  its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Some SIPP operators were unable to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate 
due diligence  on the investments held by their members  or the introducers  who use 
their schemes, to identify  potential risks to their members  or to the firms  itself.  In 
some firms this was made worse  by an over-reliance on third parties  to conduct due 
diligence on behalf of the operator. In some cases  this has resulted in taxable 
investments being  inadvertently held, and monies  invested in potentially fraudulent 
investments.
The 2013  guidance included the following:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These  are not new or 
amended requirements,  but a reminder  of regulatory  responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2)  is clear that a member  of a pension  
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer  under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
Examples of good practice we observed  during our work with SIPP  operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that introducers  that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions  to give the advice  they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals  or cancelled  
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does  not appear 
on the website  listings for un-authorised business  warnings.

Ref: DRN79162098Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP  
business it administers.  Examples of good  practice  we have identified include: 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain  appropriate and sufficient  due diligence (for example,  checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate  for 
personal pension  schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
 ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
 periodically  reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme
 having  checks which may include, but are not limited to
 ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and skills 
to introduce different types of business to the firm, and undertaking additional  checks  
such as viewing Companies House records, identifying connected parties  and visiting 
introducers;
 ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses  or relies on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
 good practices we have  identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks,  or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept  to either deal with introducers  or accept investments, and 
 ensuring these benchmarks clearly  identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business,  or to undertake  further investigations  such  as 
instances of potential pension liberation,  investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments  and non-standard  investments  that have not been approved 
by the firm 
The 2014  Dear CEO  letter  provides another reminder that the Principles apply  and is an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles. The Annex to the 
letter included the following:
Due diligence on non-standard investment business
Ref: DRN79162099Principle 2 of the FCA's  Principles for Business requires  all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  SIPP operators should ensure that they 
conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence, for example, assessing 
that assets allowed into a scheme are appropriate for a pension scheme. Our 
thematic review found that most SIPP operators failed to undertake adequate due 
diligence on high-risk, speculative and nonstandard  investments despite being  aware  
of the Financial Sen/ices Authority (FSA)  guidance  originally published in 2012 which  
clarified our expectations of firm conduct. 
Our review assessed due diligence processes in these five key areas:
 correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment 
ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of 
assets is through a reputable arrangement,  and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
 ensuring that an investment can be independently  valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently,  and
 ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous  
investors have received  income if expected, or that any investment  providers  
are credit worthy etc.) 
Please note that the due diligence necessary  for individual investments  may vary 
depending on the circumstances, and the five areas highlighted above are not 
exhaustive.
We found that most firms  do not have the expertise or resources to assess  this type 
of business, but were  still allowing transactions  to go ahead. This increases the risk 
that a pension scheme may become a vehicle for high risk and speculative 
investments that are not secure assets,  many  of which could  be scams. It is not 
acceptable for firms to put consumers at risk this way.
Although our thematic  review focussed on non-standard investments, it is important 
to note that guidance on due diligence applies to all investments.
Findings from our review  included firms  failing  to: 
 understand the nature of an investment, especially contracts for rights to 
future income, and sale and repurchase agreements
 check  that money was being paid to legitimate businesses, and
 to independently verify that assets were real and secure, or that investment 
schemes operated  as claimed
We found that, typically, firms had difficulty completing due diligence  for non-
standard overseas investment schemes  where firms did not have access to local 
qualified legal professionals or accountants. Also, since the last review  of SIPP 
Ref: DRN791620910operators, we noted an increase in the number of opaque investment structures,  
such as special purpose vehicles and limited  companies, created to pool investment 
monies and finance  other businesses. 
Firms had difficulty  establishing where  money was being sent,  and whether 
underlying investment propositions were  genuine.  
We also found that many SIPP operators  accepted  investments  into their schemes 
without adequate consideration of how investments could be valued  or realised.
Finally, we found many firms continuing  to rely on marketing and promotional 
material produced  by investment providers as part of due diligence processes, 
despite previous  guidance  highlighting the need for independent assessment of 
investments.
The documents Ive set out above  highlight a range of nonexhaustive  examples of what  the 
FCA considered to be good  industry  practice for SIPP operators to adopt  to safeguard their 
customers interests and illustrative of what SIPP operators  could do to meet their 
obligations under  the Principles. 
I appreciate that the 2009 and 2012  reports and the 2014 Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance whilst the 2013 guidance  is formal guidance.  But this doesnt  mean  their 
importance should be underestimated in my determination of what  is fair and reasonable. 
They provide  a reminder that the Principles apply and give examples  of the kinds  of things a 
SIPP operator might  do to ensure it is treating its customer  fairly and produce the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles. In that respect,  the publications which set out the regulators  
expectations of what SIPP  operators  should  be doing  also go some way to indicate what  I 
consider amounts to good industry  practice.
I know that Embark says it should be judged by the regulatory  position  at the time it 
accepted Mr Xs application. But its important  to point out that although some of the 
publications Ive listed above were made after the events subject to complaint, the Principles 
that underpin  them  existed throughout.  So, a business must always  conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence  (Principle  2) and take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems 
(Principle 3) and pay due regard to the interests  of its clients and treat them fairly (Principle  
6). 
As Mr X has said, it is also clear from the text of the publications that the regulator  expected  
SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good practices into the conduct  of 
their business already.  So, whilst  the regulators comments suggest some industry 
participants understanding  of how the standards shaped what  was expected of SIPP 
operators changed over time, its clear the standards themselves did not change  and applied 
at the time of the events  Mr X has complained about.
In any event, this doesnt  mean that in considering  what is fair and reasonable, I will only 
consider Embarks actions with these publications  in mind. The reports,  letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive guidance. They did not say the suggestions  given were  the limit of 
what a SIPP  operator  should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should 
be done to meet such regulatory obligations  is dependent on the circumstances. It was for a 
business to decide for itself how to meet its regulatory obligations  it should  not have been 
reliant on the regulator to tell it what to do. 
Ref: DRN791620911Having said all of the above, I reiterate the starting point is that Im required to make a 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
did Embark act fairly and reasonably by accepting  Mr Xs introduction by Firm A?
Mr Xs business was introduced to Embark by Firm A in 2010. At the time, Embarks  general 
policy was to not accept business from financial advisers outside the UK and it later stopped 
accepting all such introductions in 2014  on a blanket  basis.  It says it took the latter  step 
because it became difficult to verify the regulatory  status of overseas firms.  However, it 
appears that the general policy was subject  to some exceptions  in 2010 and that Embark did 
accept some referrals and instructions up until 2014.
I understand why Mr X might think that Embark should have adopted a blanket  refusal  in 
2010. But, I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable for me to uphold  this complaint on 
that basis. The policy that was put in place by Embark was a matter that I consider to be 
within its legitimate commercial discretion. There was (and remains) nothing to say that 
Embark must not accept  referrals from overseas advisers. And it follows  that it was within  
Embarks discretion to make exceptions to that policy in 2010  provided of course  that 
Embark otherwise looked at Mr Xs referral  having  regard to the relevant  considerations Ive 
mentioned above  and conducted adequate due diligence on Firm A. 
Ive therefore  considered  what actions Embark took and the circumstances of the 
introduction. 
There is no dispute that the advice  from Firm A and the referral of Mr X to Embark took place 
in and from Switzerland. So although the pension switch took place in the UK, there was no 
requirement for Firm A to be granted authorisation to provide financial advice by the UK 
regulator. I also agree with Embark that it wouldnt be unusual for a consumer based in 
Switzerland to seek advice from a Swiss  based  adviser. 
Embark says it carried out the following  enhanced  due diligence  before accepting the 
referral. 
It reviewed  the FSA website to ensure that Firm A didnt appear  on the list of 
overseas companies whose business  shouldnt be accepted;
It ensured that Firm A completed a questionnaire  about  its advice  model and 
reviewed Firm As responses  to that questionnaire, ensuring that they were 
satisfactory;
It obtained a copy of Firm As Professional Indemnity Insurance Certificate;
It obtained a copy of Firm As code of conduct;
It confirmed the identity of the individual adviser at Firm A dealing with Mr Xs affairs 
and obtained a copy of his Chartered  Insurance Institute qualification;
It obtained a copy of Firm As insurance details; 
There was a formal  agreement between Embark and Firm A setting out the 
respective obligations  of the parties;  
Ref: DRN791620912It contacted Polyreg, the Swiss  money-laundering regulator, to ensure that Firm A 
was a member.
I know that Mr X thinks that Embark  should have verified  some  of this information 
independently. But Ive not seen  anything to suggest that further checks would have 
revealed that the information provided by Firm A was incorrect. 
There is some confusion  about the Polyreg status of Firm A. Mr X says that, at the time, 
Firm A had a limited  regulated status  for anti-money laundering purposes rather than wider 
regulated status.  Im not clear about  the exact position. But, as part of our investigation, our 
adjudicator asked the Swiss financial regulator (FINMA) about its requirements  for 
businesses offering financial advice including advice about pensions. The regulator told us 
that at the time of the events, there was no requirement for a business  to obtain 
authorisation in order  to give this kind of financial advice. 
We rarely  see cases that involve Swiss financial regulations. So Ive relied  on the information 
that our adjudicator  obtained and, following my provisional decision,  I gave Mr X an 
opportunity to review  this too. Mr X hasnt provided  me with anything to suggest my 
understanding of the Swiss  regulatory position  is wrong. So, Ive concluded that there was 
nothing in the Swiss regulatory system that meant that Firm A shouldnt or couldnt give 
financial advice in these  circumstances.
The certificate from the Chartered  Financial Institute for the adviser at Firm A relates  to an 
Financial Advisers International Qualification. I think  that its fair to say that this is a relevant 
qualification from a reputable organisation.  And I think Embark could be satisfied that from 
what it had seen that the adviser was someone that was competent  in financial matters.
I agree  with Mr X that the description by Embark  of the checks  as enhanced  doesnt  seem 
quite right. These are the kind of checks that I think any SIPP operator should have 
undertaken of an overseas adviser  in these circumstances. But whether they were enhanced  
or not, the key point is that I think the checks were  reasonable  and consistent with Embarks  
duties to conduct its business with due diligence and in Mr Xs best interests. 
So, based  on what it discovered, I dont think Embark had any reasonable cause to decline 
Mr Xs application as submitted through Firm A in 2010. Ive seen no evidence that Embark 
could or should  have  identified that Firm A was involved in inappropriate or fraudulent 
activity. Embark could be satisfied that Firm A wasnt breaching  any regulatory rules  in 
advising Mr X and was a genuine  business  run by individuals  capable of providing  
competent investment advice. 
should Embark have ceased to accept investment instructions from Firm A?
Mr X says that Firm A went into liquidation in November  2012. He says that after this it 
continued doing business in the guise of a new company registered in the Seychelles. Whilst 
I can see from open source material that Firm A did go into liquidation in Switzerland in 
November 2012,  Ive not been provided with evidence  about Firm A being  re-registered. But 
Ive proceeded  on the basis that Mr X is right about the re-registration of Firm A in the 
Seychelles.
Embark wasnt  aware of the liquidation until Mr X brought this to its attention in 2014 when 
he discovered this for himself after receiving some correspondence from the adviser he was 
Ref: DRN791620913dealing with. Mr X says Embark ought  to have known about the fact of the liquidation and 
that facilitating investments (presumably investments made after the liquidation) on the basis  
of instructions from Firm A in these circumstances  was unfair.   
I think its worth pointing  out here that only two of the investments that Mr X is unhappy 
about (the Castlestone  investments made in 2013) were made  after Firm A was re-
registered in the Seychelles).  But Ive considered Mr Xs arguments very carefully. Having 
done so, I dont think these issues highlight grounds for me to uphold this complaint for the 
following reasons.
I accept that Embark should not have relied  solely on the due diligence  it carried out in 2010  
and should have periodically  undertaken due diligence on Firm A in the time that followed. 
This is clear from the 2013 guidance  which Ive mentioned above which says that SIPP  
operators should be:
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme
Periodic due diligence doesnt mean that Embark needed to have conducted due diligence 
every six months or every year. But I think its fair to say that Embark needed to have carried 
out due diligence more than just at the outset  of its relationship with Firm A and I think its 
fair and reasonable to say that it should have  done so again  after 2012. Had Embark carried  
out periodic due diligence, it likely would or ought  to have identified that Firm A had gone  
into liquidation. So I think Embark failed to meet its obligations in this respect. 
However, just because theres been  a failure  to meet  some  obligations  it doesnt 
necessarily follow that I should  uphold the complaint. I have  to look at what would and ought 
to have happened had Embark done everything  it should  have  done.
In the particular circumstances of this complaint and having reference to the relevant 
considerations Ive highlighted  above,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Embark  
should have refused instructions from Firm A after its liquidation and should now be 
responsible for Mr Xs losses. Thats because I dont think there was an obvious risk of 
consumer detriment for the following  reasons:
Even after the liquidation and apparent  re-registration in Seychelles, it appears that 
those operating Firm A were still doing  so from the same office in Switzerland and 
Mr X was dealing with the same advice and administration team.  The  advice was still 
being given from Switzerland to Mr X who was resident  in Switzerland and there  was 
no requirement for Firm A to be regulated in the UK or Switzerland.  So, there was no 
breach of regulatory rules by Firm A. 
Mr X signed all investment instructions and appeared  to have  an established 
relationship with those operating Firm A. So I think its likely that any enquiries that 
Embark would have  made  of Mr X about his relationship with Firm A relating to the 
liquidation would likely have resulted in Mr X informing Embark that he was happy 
with the service being provided. Things  of course  changed when the student 
accommodation funds  were  suspended in 2013  but that had nothing to do with 
Firm As liquidation and re-registration.
Ref: DRN791620914The investments  held within Mr Xs bond were broadly of the same risk profile and 
diversity from the commencement  of the bond  through to the time that Mr X changed 
advisers in 2014. If for example, Mr X, based  on Firm As advice, was proposing to 
radically change  tack and invest the majority  of his funds  in one particular UCIS after 
2012, I might expect Embark to conclude that Mr X was at risk of consumer detriment 
in his dealings  with Firm A and recommend that he seek regulated advice from a UK 
based adviser. But that wasnt  the case here.
Firm As advice to Mr X was being  given  in the context of investments held within  an 
investment bond with Royal  Skandia   generally considered to be a large, reputable  
investment management company. The recommendations  that Firm A was providing 
were for investments that were approved  by Royal Skandia (Ill expand  on this 
below). I think this would reasonably have given Embark some  comfort that Mr X was 
being provided with appropriate  advice relating to the bond on an ongoing basis  and 
that there was no significant risk of consumer  detriment.
So, although  Embark  didnt carry out periodic  due diligence on Firm A and identify that Firm 
A had gone  into liquidation in 2012,  I dont  think its fair and reasonable to say that this 
means that Embark should have refused to accept  investment instructions from Firm A from 
that point onwards and should now be responsible for all of Mr Xs losses as a result. 
did Embark treat Mr X fairly by facilitating the SIPP investments?
Embark says that its due diligence  duty in respect  of the investments made  by Mr X was 
limited to ensuring that they could legitimately  be held in the SIPP  and not a scam  and so it 
focused on these  issues. But that is only partially  in line with the regulations  and what  I think  
was good industry  practice at the time.  As Ive made clear above, SIPP operators have a 
responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business that they administer. SIPP operators 
should undertake  enquiries about  the nature or quality of an investment proposed before 
determining whether to accept  or decline it into its SIPP. 
Theres no evidence that Embark made any independent enquiries  of any of the investments 
made by Mr X in the SIPP. But, despite  this, I dont think in the circumstances of this 
complaint, it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude that it treated Mr X unfairly and 
facilitated investments  that it otherwise should  not have done. My reasons are as follows:
The main investment wrapper was a bond with Royal Skandia. As Ive said above, 
Royal Skandia is considered a large  and reputable investment manager. It was a UK 
regulated business  at the time of the transfer of Mr Xs pension  to Embark in 2010 
and continued  to be so until 2013.  After that time, it remained regulated by the 
Isle of Man Insurance and Pensions  Authority. So, I dont think  there was any reason 
for Embark to have  been concerned about accepting the bond structure that Mr X 
was using.
Similarly, I think Embark could  take comfort from the involvement of Royal Skandia in 
the investment  management process.  All the investments held within the bond  had to 
be ones which were  permitted by Royal Skandia. Im aware that Royal  Skandia  
offered no assurances about the investments, but the terms and conditions  do say 
that the checks would be done  to ensure that investments were acceptable for Isle of 
Man regulatory purposes.
Ref: DRN791620915Most  of the investments held within  the bond were in funds offered and sold by FCA 
regulated investment  companies such as Threadneedle, Miton, Invesco, Odey,  
Lyxor. There is nothing to suggest that such funds were  inappropriate  for a SIPP or 
would otherwise be detrimental to Mr X.   
Mr X is unhappy about the investments in Brandeaux Student  Accommodation, 
International Mansion Student Accommodation and Castlestone funds. He says 
these were UCIS funds  and the investments in them shouldnt have been facilitated  
by Embark  especially after the FCA said in 2013  that these types of investments 
couldnt be sold to ordinary retail investors.
Whilst the FCA did indeed  prohibit  the promotion of UCIS for retail  investors - the ban 
came into effect on 1 January 2014. The investments  that Mr X made in the 
Brandeaux, International Mansion and Castlestone funds all took place before this 
time. And in any event,  its important to make  a distinction between the 
promotion/advice of UCIS and Embarks role in this transaction. Embark  didnt 
promote or advise Mr X about any of the investments in the bond and its role was not 
to ensure that the investments were suitable  for him.
Nevertheless, as Ive said above,  Embark ought  to have  carried  out due diligence on 
all the proposed investments. 
I havent been presented with a lot of evidence about these investments. It appears 
the student accommodation funds  were UCIS and ran into problems in 2013 because  
of liquidity and market conditions.  Theres no evidence to suggest that there  were  
underlying problems with the nature of the investments and how they were being  run 
that Embark would have  uncovered with further  enquiries. There  appear  to have 
been proper management structures  in place and they werent  part of a fraud  or 
scam. And at the time of Mr Xs investments, they were both the subject of wide-
scale investment. 
Although in my provisional decision I said that the Castlestone funds were  likely to be 
UCIS, Im not sure about this. But in any event, given what Ive said above  about 
UCIS generally I dont  think that is significant. The Castlestone funds appear to be 
higher risk and were  unregulated in the UK. But they were being managed by a firm 
which had been  established for over 15 years and which was registered with the 
British Virgin  Islands  Financial Services Commission (BVIFSC). The funds were 
focused on Gold Bullion  and a range of diverse  commodities.  They were liquid and 
widely traded. 
I note that the BVIFSC  did investigate the management companys fees and 
expenses in 2012. And, as Mr X has highlighted to me, the FSA had conducted  a 
search of Castlestone in the UK in 2011.  The latter appears to have been as a result 
of potential regulatory inadequacies.  But Im not aware of any adverse findings which 
followed either of these investigations or that these investigations highlighted an 
obvious risk of consumer  detriment associated with these funds. 
So, although  Mr Xs fund included some higher risk investments Im not persuaded that any 
due diligence  conducted by Embark would  have given it cause to decline to accept them into 
his SIPP  at the relevant times.
did Embark treat Mr X unfairly in respect of the commission and fees paid to Firm A?
Ref: DRN791620916Mr X has also questioned the commission  and fees paid from his fund to Firm A. I 
understand that £37,000 was paid to Firm A by Royal Skandia.  Its likely that Firm A also 
received fees when  he switched funds within the bond. 
I note that Mr X has tried to complain to Royal Skandia about the fees in the past without 
success. Im afraid that I cant comment on this further than I have already done  as neither 
Royal Skandia nor Firm A are businesses within our jurisdiction. 
But I remain  of the view that Embark are not at fault.  The arrangement by which Royal  
Skandia would pay commission and fees was a matter between itself and Firm A. It wasnt 
something in which  Embark was involved and nor was it something  over which Embark had 
any control or say.
Mr X signed  all investment switch  instructions  sent to Embark via Firm A saying that I am 
aware of the fees payable within this investment and that these  fees exist partly to meet 
promotion and distribution expenses of the fund, including commission paid to my fund 
adviser. I think Embark  could take comfort from these signed instructions  that Mr X was fully 
aware of the ongoing fees and costs being deducted  from his investments. 
Embark also sent all statements, correspondence and policy documents about the Skandia 
bond to Firm A as per the terms  and conditions of the SIPP. I think Embark was entitled to 
reasonably conclude that Firm A was passing this information to Mr X. So I dont think  there  
was any failure by Embark to keep Mr X updated about the value of his SIPP.
Overall, I dont  think Embark treated Mr X unfairly  in respect of the commission  and fees 
paid to Firm A. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Xs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7916209