K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mrs Bs home has an annexe downstairs for her parents. Her father  has health issues  and 
cant get upstairs. He can only use the downstairs bathroom. 
Like most people, Mrs B had home buildings insurance that covered damage caused by 
escape of water.
Mrs B also had British Gas HomeCare insurance that covered a number of things  including  
central heating and plumbing and drainage. 
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
plumbing and drainage  company, engineers and others for whose actions I hold that 
insurance company  responsible.
Mrs B called for help with issues  with the drainage from her downstairs bathroom. She 
complained that there was a smell and a leak but British Gas declined to help her for months 
and then left her in a mess.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought it 
possible British Gas could  have identified the leak when it first visited  in February 2018 
rather than eight months later in October  2018.  She said its delays and lack of effort in 
seeking the cause of the leak had caused  upset and frustration. 
She said British Gas caused further unnecessary distress when it gave misinformation about 
why it couldnt  do certain  work. It sent the wrong engineer out on some occasions  which  
further wasted  Mrs Bs time.
The investigator said British Gas had offered a total of £240.00 (sic) for distress and 
inconvenience caused by its service and misinformation. She recommended that British  Gas 
should pay Mrs B  in addition  - a further  £310.00  for distress and inconvenience (a total of 
£550.00).
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs B 
and to British  Gas on 28 October  2019. I summarise my findings:
Where I did find that British Gas fell down was in incorrectly assuming there was a 
leak from the macerator. That meant that time was lost. Mrs B hasnt been able to 
show what damage happened when. But she had to live with damp affecting her 
family for longer than if British Gas had made access to the leak earlier  in 2018.
This caused her inconvenience and distress including concern for her fathers health. 
Ref: DRN70406822The investigator recommended  compensation of £550.00. Thats more than I 
wouldve directed.  But British Gas accepted that figure  so I found it fair and 
reasonable to adopt it. Thats in addition to its payment  of £210.00  in late April or 
May 2018 but not in addition to the cheque  it sent in November 2018 which Mrs B 
told us she hadnt  paid in.
Subject to any further information from Mrs B or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B  in addition to its payment  of £210.00 in late April or May 
2018  a further £550.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs B accepted the provisional decision.
British Gas hasnt  accepted  the provisional decision.  It says,  in summary, that it is unaware 
that it agreed to this figure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home emergency policy  terms
Plumbing and drainage problems often involve  accessing  a leak covered by a floor, celling or 
wall. The policy covered  such making access  as well as certain  repairs. It also covered 
making a surface  level after repairs but not re-surfacing such  as re-tiling. 
The policy excluded showers and their parts. It also excluded macerators.
The policy excluded faults existing since installation.
The policy didnt cover water damage unless British  Gas caused  it. 
Mrs Bs home
Mrs B had a bathroom with a toilet next to another small room with just a toilet.  Each of the 
two toilets had a macerator. The main  function of each macerator was that it took foul water  
from the flushed toilet and macerated  it and pumped it into a waste  pipe narrower than a 
traditional four-inch  diameter soil pipe. 
The fitting of a macerator indicates a lack of space or a lack of fall, or both. 
I accept Mrs Bs statement  that in about 2014  professionals fitted the bathroom  for her 
father. He had a double-sized shower  cubicle with a seat fitted  inside. There was a glass  
shower door on top of part of the shower  tray.
He had a raised  toilet with a bidet fitted. From what Mrs B has said,  the macerator in the 
bathroom was behind some tiling. 
From what  Ive seen, I think the macerator  for the bathroom toilet  also took the water  from 
the shower tray. I know  that some  macerators are designed to do this, subject to an 
Ref: DRN70406823adequate fall from the shower tray to the macerator. Mrs B had a non-return valve between 
the shower tray and the macerator.
What happened
From later photographs showing extensive wet rot, I find it likely that water had started 
leaking before  2018.  
In February 2018  Mrs B called for help with a blocked shower drain. British Gas attended 
and cleared the blockage.
In April 2018 British  Gas attended  again.  It declined to do any work,  saying  the problem 
related to the macerator which wasnt covered under the policy.
Mrs B instructed her own plumber. He replaced the non-return valve at a cost of £180.00. 
Mrs B complained that British Gas shouldve replaced that valve.  In a final response letter on 
4 May 2018  British Gas said it would reimburse  the £180.00 and pay a further £30.00  (a total 
of £210.00).
By September 2018,  leaking water had made  the carpet wet in Mrs Bs fathers bedroom.
British Gas attended again. It again said the problem was the macerator which wasnt 
covered. So again no work was completed. 
On Sunday 28 October 2018  Mrs B says the main bathroom floor flooded, and the carpet in 
the hallway was soaked. She took the boxing  off the pipe work to reveal that it was leaking. 
She contacted British  Gas and it visited again.
The following  Friday British Gas took out the shower  screen  and tray. British  Gas fixed  leaks 
from a T junction and from the non-return valve. 
I accept that British Gas initially said it would re-fit the shower. But I think  the removal of the 
shower showed vey extensive water damage which was bound to involve lengthy drying-  out 
and a claim on the home buildings  policy. 
The buildings insurer said the leak was from the shower trap. But I find that the leaks werent  
from the shower or the macerator but from the intervening pipe.
In a final response letter in November 2018,  British Gas said it was sending  Mrs B a cheque 
for £210.00. That was its second cheque for that amount.
By April 2019 the buildings insurer had paid for repairs  including  a new shower in the 
bathroom.
Consideration and conclusion
Mrs B and her family suffered with damp  and flooding  for some months. And in the end they 
suffered the upheaval of extensive repair  work  in several rooms. She had to make  a claim on 
the building  insurance and bear an excess of, I think, £450.00.
Ref: DRN70406824But all that was caused by a leak that Ive found  had been there before British Gas got 
involved. So I dont  find that British Gas caused the leak, the flooding, the upheaval or the 
need to make the buildings insurance  claim. 
As it turned out, the multiple leaks and the lack of fall to the macerator  showed  that the 
waste pipe had probably had a fault since it was installed  so British  Gas didnt have to 
repair it.
British Gas couldnt have replaced the shower  before the buildings insurer replaced  it and so 
it doesnt need to pay compensation for that.
Where I do find that British Gas fell down was in incorrectly  assuming there was a leak from 
the macerator. That meant that time was lost. Mrs B hasnt been able to show  what damage 
happened when.  But she had to live with damp affecting her family  for longer than if British 
Gas had made access to the leak in September 2018.
I dont doubt that this caused her inconvenience and distress including concern for her 
fathers health. 
The investigator recommended  compensation of £550.00. And thats more than I wouldve 
directed. But British Gas accepted that figure  so I find it fair and reasonable to adopt it. 
Thats in addition to its payment of £210.00 in late April or May 2018  but not in addition  to 
the cheque it sent in November 2018  which Mrs B told us she hadnt paid in.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B  in addition to its payment of £210.00 in 
late April or May 2018  a further £340.00  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7040682