K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies  taken 
out in 1996 and 2003. Mr and Mrs S say Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. They  paid a monthly  amount 
for the policy. Even though this was a joint mortgage, only Mr S was covered by the PPI 
policy. If Mr S made a successful  claim, this policy wouldve  paid out the full cost of the 
monthly repayments for up to 12 months.
The 1996  policy  was cancelled in 2003 and a new PPI policy  was taken in both Mr and    
Mrs Ss name  with Mr S getting  70% of the benefit  and Mrs S getting 30% of the benefit. 
This policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP can be made up of three different elements  a PPI policy,  life cover  and 
critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover can be added or taken  out as the 
consumer wishes. This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy   called 
Mortgage Repayment Cover - which covered accident,  sickness  or involuntary 
unemployment - not the life or critical illness cover.
If theyd made a successful claim on the 2003 policy, it would have  paid out the full cost 
of the monthly repayments  for up to two years.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
1996 sale
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this. I say this because 
Halifax has provided me a copy of the mortgage  application  form completed  at the time as 
well as the separate PPI application completed. So I think Mr and Mrs S would have  known 
that the PPI was separate from the mortgage  and wasnt needed in order to obtain the 
mortgage. 
And Ive also seen that the PPI cover  was only taken out by Mr S only.  This would appear to 
suggest that there was a conversation about  the cover and, following that discussion, a 
choice was made to only cover Mr S.
2003 sale
Ref: DRN75486442Halifax doesnt have  much of the paperwork from the time of sale,  which  isnt surprising 
considering the sale took place over 15 years  ago. So I need to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have  been  asked for 
their consent  to the cover.
So with the limited information  I have available to me I think  its more likely that Mr and Mrs S 
knew the policy was optional and they agreed  to buy it, knowing  they could refuse if they 
didnt want it, even if they dont remember that now. 
both sales
Halifax recommended  both policies to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs Ss repayments for up to 12 months  per claim 
for the 1996 policy and 24 months per claim for the 2003 policy if they became too ill to work, 
or if they became unemployed. 
It wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay or savings they had and for longer than their 
sick pay lasted at a full rate. And it wouldve  paid out on top of any redundancy payment they 
may have  got if they lost their job. And as there couldve  been serious consequences of not 
keeping up repayments  on a debt secured against  their home,  if Mr and Mrs S couldnt work 
or lost her job then the PPI meant their monthly mortgage payments wouldve been  met. And 
any savings they had could be used for other expenses. So I think the PPI policy couldve  
been helpful to them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S for 
the 1996 policy. But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI for the 1996 policy  to 
Mr and Mrs S because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) for the 1996 policy  - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because 
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  for the 1996  policy  - and I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN75486443Halifax doesnt need to refund everything  Mr and Mrs S paid for the 2003 policy.  But Halifax 
has already offered to give Mr and Mrs S back some  of the cost of the PPI and I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr and Mrs S.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said but these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S for the 1996  policy.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for the 1996 policy.  I understand it 
has already done  this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7548644