K820x#14complaint
Ms F is unhappy about various aspects  of her treatment by Cabot Credit Management 
Group Limited (Cabot). 
background
In September  2017 Cabot bought the credit  card debt originally owed by Ms F to MBNA. 
Ms F continues to owe the balance unpaid under this debt. MBNA first lent the money to 
Ms F in 2005. 
Cabot bought the debt from Idem Servicing, to which  company  MBNA had transferred the 
debt in early 2012.  
MBNA had defaulted  the credit card account  in 2011. Via a debt management  company,  
Ms F had a repayment  arrangement  with Idem. This came to an end when the debt 
management company  ceased trading. 
Ms F is unhappy with the steps she says Cabot has taken/not taken in order to set up a new 
repayment plan and with other matters. I deal with the precise terms of the complaint about  
Cabot in more  detail below.
Our investigator  the second to assess the complaint   didnt find fault with how Cabot had 
dealt with Ms F. He concluded, among other  things:
In November 2017 Cabot had posted  to Ms F a notice of assignment of the debt 
from Idem to Cabot.
Cabot had written reasonable letters to Ms F about resuming repayment of the debt.
Cabot could reasonably ask Ms F to complete  an income and expenditure review 
before agreeing to a repayment  plan. 
Ms F didnt accept the investigators  conclusions, nor did she think hed correctly understood 
her complaint. Via her attorney (who is Ms Fs son) she submitted a further summary of her 
complaint. Ms F also said, among  other things:
Shed  never complained about  unfair  treatment.
Cabot had negligently failed to deal with her attorney.
Cabot had negligently failed to keep  proper records.
Cabot had negligently failed to cater for her special needs.
Cabot had negligently failed to supply  her with a copy of the MBNA  credit agreement 
and with copies  of its earlier letters when requested. 
Ms Fs argument is that if Cabot  and Idem   had acted reasonably throughout, she would  
have continued  with her previous repayment  plan uninterrupted. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms F but, for the 
reasons I shall give, I dont uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN79881372Its proved unusually difficult to describe the scope of the complaint to Ms Fs satisfaction. 
Ive considered all the relevant documents in this regard, including the complaint form and 
the emails of Ms F and her attorney where the subject has been covered.  
Ultimately, while its for the consumer  to make their complaint in the terms they see fit, its 
the responsibility of the ombudsman service to discern what  the complaint is about  and then 
to investigate and make findings  on it.
I consider the investigator correctly identified the scope of Ms Fs complaint  in his findings,  
albeit I note Ms F is emphatic that she hasnt complained about unfair treatment. The 
relevant part of the investigators findings reads:
your complaint
Youve said that:
CABOT failed to send  me a Bank Mandate,  to continue my payments, under 
the existing on-going  Agreement that was in place, July 2017, if they had  
acted, from July 2017 onwards, in a responsible, reasonable manner, reading 
my correspondence, doing what  they were requested to do; I would not have 
had to make the complaint; payments  would have been made as before. 
These are their  failings   not mine; all CABOT had to  do, was  read the file, as 
a mandatory, duty of care, send a Bank  mandate, they failed to do  this.
Youve also said that Cabot shouldve been aware of your vulnerability  - You  
stated that:
CABOT as a basic Duty Of Care, could / should have professionally been  
apprised of the situation, and/or, they themselves at CABOT,  should have 
ensured that their firm was fully aware  of the situation on my account, be fully 
aware of all the facts - on a professional level - before their organisation 
contacted me for the first time, by phone or letter.
I was a disabled and vulnerable customer,  it should have alerted them, to the 
fact that under mandatory legislation, I was subject to, as their employees  are 
legally required to know; to all the legal provisions of the: EQUALITY  ACT 
2010  which  incorporates the Disability Discrimination Act in its entirety, with 
updated amendments. They had also been  made fully aware, I was subject to  
a POWER OF ATTORNEY - legally needing - additional assistance with my 
affairs  obviously more  so, if it was in connection with money / legal matters.
Duty Of Care as regards all their financial  dealings, with me - more  so - 
knowing they were dealing with a Disabled  Pensioner - Chronically ill  - and 
Dyslexic.
Youve stated  that Cabot failed  to adhere  to relevant legislations  when dealing 
with you as a vulnerable consumer.
Ref: DRN79881373Youve said that Cabot has misled  the Ombudsman service of what your 
complaint is about.
[End of quotation]
Ive also carefully considered the email of Ms Fs attorney  dated  10 September 2019 and its 
attachments. It should be noted that the initial affordability of the loan wasnt  Cabots 
responsibility, and that issue  doesnt  form part of this decision. 
What Ive done is to consider all the available evidence concerning Cabots dealings with 
Ms F and vice versa,  in order  to decide if Cabot acted reasonably  towards Ms F. 
Acting reasonably  or with reasonable care doesnt  mean a lender (or any other financial 
business) always has to act absolutely perfectly or always as the customer  would wish.  Its 
an objective standard, and the basic question is whether the business  Cabot in this case  
has taken the steps  that were reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Having considered Cabots actions towards Ms F Ive found that they were reasonable and 
could have resulted  in a new repayment  plan being  put in place soon  after Cabot bought the 
debt. Apart from the fact that Cabots initial letters to Ms F, despite  being correctly 
addressed, didnt reach Ms F or come to her attention  for which Cabot cant  be blamed  it 
appears the main  factor preventing a resolution has been Ms Fs unwillingness to complete 
an income and expenditure review. 
But Cabots wish to carry out that review isnt in my view an unreasonable one. Its aim is to 
ensure as far as possible that the debtor can afford  the repayment plan. Thats  a good thing. 
This factor also tends  to weaken Ms Fs points about the attorney, catering better for her 
needs or supplying paperwork. Even  if Cabot  had satisfied  Ms F on those points and/or on 
other points,  the repayment plan would still not have been agreed  or agreed sooner, 
because Ms F wouldnt cooperate regarding the income and expenditure review.
I dont think Cabot should necessarily have been  aware of dealings between Ms F and Idem. 
But in any case,  there  was no repayment plan in place when the debt was transferred to 
Cabot, and Cabot  was acting within its rights when  contacting Ms F, in terms I think  were 
reasonable, to arrange a new plan. 
I dont fault Cabot for how it has dealt with Ms F. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Roger Yeomans
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7988137