K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  of unnecessary legal and valuation fees incurred on their 
applications to The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) for a fixed  rate product and a further 
advance on their mortgage.
background
Mr S is an employee of RBS. Mr and Mrs S bought their house in 2004. Mr S says they 
obtained a staff mortgage from RBS to purchase  it and a first legal charge was taken over 
the property. The copy legal charge supplied to me is undated  but RBS hasnt  disputed  this 
account. Mr S says that since  then he and Mrs S have  taken many fixed  interest products 
managed by facility  documents.
Mr S says that in October 2017 they applied for a fixed rate product and a further advance 
for home improvements. Historically, staff mortgages had been held on a different product 
system. This was no longer available and any change  to their arrangements  meant being 
moved to a new, still internal, product holding platform. 
Mr S says that the key issue surrounding  the complaint is the legal charge. He says RBSs 
online advice hub advises  that to move  mortgages  between the platforms,  you first move the 
mortgage, with no valuation and no legal work required. The property is already charged to 
RBS. You then undertake the further advance and consider  if a valuation is required. This 
would have been acceptable to him.
He says that initially, RBS told Mrs S that no legal work was required.  But later RBS told him 
that he had to supply solicitor  details. He queried this and was informed by email that it 
would be "sorted" once the case was underwritten. But this didnt happen. 
Instead he says RBS treated the transaction as a re-mortgage - from RBS to RBS - 
engaging solicitors to take a first legal  charge  in favour of RBS,  to replace the existing legal 
charge in favour of RBS. He says RBS used these solicitors to repay the initial  mortgage  at 
RBS with a mortgage drawn on RBS, incurring fees in the meantime, and that the solicitors 
had been unable to explain to Mr S why they were engaged in this transaction. 
Mr S says the engagement of external solicitors complicated the process as there were 
delays in their obtaining  redemption figures  and ultimately settling the loan. 
Mr S says his complaint  to RBS about  the cost of instructing of solicitors wasnt upheld.  He 
cant see why as the procedures clearly stated  no legal  work was required. RBS already had 
a first legal charge on the property. 
He says the reason given by RBS was that each  legal charge was associated with terms and 
conditions which couldnt be updated.  Mr S disagreed. He said RBS was saying  that a new 
legal charge had to be taken every time a borrower changed mortgage products.
Mr and Mrs S complained to RBS.  In its response dated 23 January 2018 it listed as follows  
the complaints  made:
1.the valuation  wasnt instructed on 9 November as it should have been;
Ref: DRN720582922.hed been  given differing information  regarding whether RBS could send paperwork by 
email;
3.there were delays in issuing the redemption statement;
4.the general service  hed received  while going through the process;
5.a valuation was required for his mortgage application;
6.the time taken for him to receive the initial paperwork;
7.an error had been made in instructing solicitors to conduct work regarding  legal charges;
8.the £995 product fee;
9.the £102 charged by the solicitors.
RBS agreed with complaints 1-4. It didnt agree with complaints 5-9. 
For the inconvenience caused  by complaints  1-4 RBS credited  Mr and Mrs Ss account with 
£150 compensation. It also credited  £152.47  for the additional interest payable by 
Mr and Mrs S as a result  of the delay in moving  to a lower  interest  rate. In respect of 
complaints 5-9 it said:
5.I note that you are unhappy a valuation was required for your remortgage.  I can confirm 
the correct process has been  followed in this instance. Although  you raise a point that 
your LTV (loan to value) is low, as you are taking out additional  borrowing  to ensure a 
thorough and robust sales process  the underwriter has determined an updated valuation  
is required.
6.Moving on to your complaint surrounding the time taken for you to receive  your 
paperwork, I have  reviewed our systems and confirmed that the correct internal process 
has been followed. Your mortgage adviser  issued  the paperwork correctly  in line with 
their departments  timescales. We cannot  be held responsible for delays in the mail.
7.I cannot agree that we have instructed [solicitors] to conduct work  on legal charges 
incorrectly. I note that you have queried why [solicitors] are required to complete work 
when we already  hold a legal charge. I have liaised  with our legal counsel and they have 
confirmed all legal charges hold an associated terms and conditions (behind the charge). 
These terms and conditions cannot  be updated  and when  you remortgage with us a new 
charge needed  to be raised. Although you may feel this process  is convoluted I can 
assure you it has been followed correctly and for a valid reason.
Ref: DRN720582938.I am unable to agree with your complaint  about the £995 product fee. Regardless of the 
service you have  received I cannot agree this fee is not valid.  The fee is clearly detailed  
in the offer documentation that you have agreed  to. No error has been made in the 
application of this fee.
9.I cannot agree with your complaint surrounding the £102 in charges from [solicitors], as 
confirmed above the legal work instructed by [solicitors] was correct.  If you are 
dissatisfied with the charges accrued any complaint should be directed to them. We are 
not responsible  for fees charged  by a third party.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service. In reply  
RBS provided the advice  from its (internal) legal counsel as follows:
This is our standard  process and not something  that we could waive. We need to do this as 
when the customer  remortgaged with us, they moved onto our current terms and conditions. 
The legal charge which was put into place for the staff house purchase loans does not refer 
to the correct terms and conditions  and therefore needs to be released with a fresh charge 
put into place  which refers to the correct and current terms and conditions.
.the wording of our legal charge  has been approved and registered at the Land Registry.
So each and every  legal  charge which is granted in our favour must be exactly in 
accordance with that approved form otherwise it won't be accepted  by the Land  Registry for 
registration. Further we would never  agree to any variation to the terms of our legal charge 
once it has been  registered at HM Land  Registry,  as given our size, we need to have 
complete consistency  across the mortgage  book. Accordingly  we require a fresh legal 
charge to be put in place so that the legal  charge  refers to the correct  terms and conditions  
for the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr and Mrs Ss complaint be upheld. He referred to the 
advice from RBSs legal counsel and added  that the valuation  fees appeared to have been 
charged owing to the length of time which had passed since a valuation had last been  
carried out. He was satisfied that in order to accurately assess the ability to switch products  
a new valuation was required.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. They  said 
no-one had stated why the existing legal charge - which  they assumed was also Land 
Registry compliant as it was already  registered   wasnt satisfactory for their needs. 
On the basis put forward  by RBS, every historic legal charge would need to be replaced.  
Surely not? The legal  charge they had was compliant or it wouldnt have been registered  
when they originally took out the mortgage in 2004.  RBS hadnt stated what  was wrong with 
the existing legal charge and why it needed  to change.
I took a different view of the complaint to the adjudicator. So I decided to issue  a provisional  
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
Ref: DRN72058294my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive read the copy  supplied by Mr and Mrs S of the 2004 legal charge. Its executed  by both 
parties but undated. Its an all monies  charge securing a covenant to discharge on demand 
the mortgagor's obligations. It makes  no reference to the current (or any) terms and 
conditions of RBS.  Its not specific to a staff loan.
Mr and Mrs S say the terms and conditions  are managed by facility documentation  not the 
legal charge. When they applied in 2017  for a fixed rate product and a further advance for 
home improvements, there was no need  for a new legal  charge or for any involvement by 
solicitors. 
That seems  to me to be right. The legal charge doesnt refer to any terms and conditions, so 
there cant be a requirement  that it be updated  to refer to the correct terms and conditions. 
There would  have been no variation to the terms of the legal charge.
Subsequent to the adjudicators view RBS has further commented:
Overall charges against the property are not held by the individual bank, such  as NatWest  
or RBS. In fact the charge is registered  to the department or branch of the bank that the 
lending was originally  completed with. For example if a customer  applied  for a mortgage with 
the Branch in Bedford, then wanted  to re-mortgage and borrow additional funds completed 
via a telephony application  with the mortgage  lending unit. The charge  would have to be 
updated to show  that the mortgage  lending unit holds that charge.
However Im not persuaded by this either. The question  to which department  or branch a 
legal charge is registered is an internal matter  and has nothing to do with the title. Nor is it 
anywhere recorded on the legal  charge.
RBS also suggests  that the new product and further borrowing couldnt be completed on a 
former staff house purchase loan. That may be right, but Mr and Mrs Ss point, with which I 
agree, is that these  matters fell to be dealt  with by facility documentation.  They  didnt require 
a new legal charge or the instruction of solicitors. 
Accordingly I agree with Mr and Mrs S that the instruction  of solicitors was unnecessary and 
that they shouldnt be liable for the fees of £102.  And in any event, the offer of loan dated 
17 November 2017 says in section 4 that the conveyancing fees for the re-mortgage work 
would be paid by RBS.
However as Mr and Mrs S applied for a fixed rate product and a further advance  for home 
improvements, I cant see any objection to the valuation  fees.  There hadnt been any 
valuation since the original purchase in 2004.
It seems  to me that any delay caused  by RBSs unnecessary insistence on discharging the 
existing legal charge and taking a new one has been covered by the compensation payment 
already made. However I consider that an additional  award  of £250 is appropriate to cover 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs S by RBSs unnecessary complication of the 
process.
Ref: DRN72058295the responses to my provisional  decision
RBS accepted my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs S didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my provisional conclusions  I confirm them  here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs S:
the £102 legal fee;
£250 compensation for their trouble  and upset;
interest on the £102 from the date it was paid by or deducted  from Mr and Mrs S  to the 
date of repayment to them at 8% a year simple.
If RBS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should  also give them  a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7205829