K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that a car that was supplied to them under a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited,  trading  as Close Brothers  Motor  Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr and Mrs G under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers that was electronically signed in May 2018.  The car was nearly  twelve years 
old and had been driven for 77,697 miles.  Mr G complained to Close  Brothers in 
August 2018 about the doors and windows not working  and he said that the dealers 
repairs hadnt fixed the issue and his relationship with the dealer had broken down so he 
wanted to reject the car. Mrs G complained to Close Brothers a week later about other 
issues with the car including  an engine  management warning light,  the car juddering, the 
clutch sticking, the door locks not working  properly  and the windscreen wiper not working. 
She was advised  to stop using the car  and says that they havent  used it since then.
Close Brothers arranged  for the car to be inspected by an independent expert  in 
September 2018 and its mileage was recorded as being 84,074  miles.  It said that 
Mr and Mrs G were entitled  to reject the car because of the dealers failed repair  of the 
window switch pack. But it said that the other faults highlighted in the inspection report would 
need to be rectified  before  the car was returned.  Mr and Mrs G werent  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt feel that it 
was fair or reasonable to ask Mr and Mrs G to fix faults on a car that Close Brothers had 
already agreed  to take back. She said that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt get any benefit from the 
repairs and there was no evidence to suggest that they had caused  the faults which had 
developed within 90 days of the agreement. So she recommended that Close  Brothers 
should arrange for the car to be collected and the agreement terminated and that it should 
refund Mr and Mrs Gs deposit and monthly charges from September 2018 (with interest).
Close Brothers has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
if the car was crashed or damaged prior to a rejection taking place, it wouldnt expect 
the dealer to take the car back with no deductions or repairs taking place;
it has a similar compliant with this service in which rejection is no longer being  
pursued;
a court  would take the evidence  from the highest  qualified professional - and the 
independent expert  has confirmed that the faults werent present at the point of sale 
and have developed when Mr and Mrs G had the car; and
the faults which developed during  the ownership of the customer  arent fair wear and 
tear.
Mrs G has described  the financial difficulties that theyre  experiencing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We consider each complaint on its 
individual merits and although we do take account of applicable law and regulations we also 
Ref: DRN79754462consider the overall situation. So its possible that a court would reach a different outcome to 
the decision that Ive made.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which  
means that the components within the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time  but exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number  of factors. 
Mr G contacted Close Brothers about  faults  with the car in August 2018. And it agreed that 
the car could  be rejected because of those faults. Mrs G also contacted it in August 2018 
about some  other faults with the car. When the car was inspected  by an independent expert 
in September  2018, the expert concluded  that it was unlikely that the faults with the engine 
management light and window switch and a misfire  at idle wouldve been developing when 
the car was supplied  to Mr and Mrs G.
But Mrs G had complained about those faults  only about three months after the car had 
been supplied   and the car had been driven  for 6,377 miles in that time. I dont consider it to 
be likely  that those  faults all developed  at the same time  and I consider it to be more  likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs G discovered  each of those faults at different times but only 
complained to Close Brothers about  them in August 2018. 
I dont consider it to be reasonable for a car to have developed so many  faults  within three 
months of being supplied.  Even  though the car was twelve years old and had been driven  for 
more than 84,000 miles,  I consider that the car wasnt  as durable as it would be reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs G to expect it to be. And for that reason I consider that it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to them.
Close Brothers has already agreed that Mr and Mrs G can reject  the car  but it says that 
they need to repair the other  faults before doing  so. I dont consider that to be fair or 
reasonable. As I consider  that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied to 
Mr and Mrs G, I find that it would  be fair and reasonable for them to reject the car in its 
current condition without  making any repairs to it. 
And I find that it would  be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to end the agreement and 
collect the car. The agreement shows that Mr and Mrs G paid a cash  deposit of £200 for the 
car  and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to refund to them any 
deposit that they paid for the car (with  interest).
Mr and Mrs G say that they were advised  not to use the car any more in mid-August 2018  
when Mrs G phoned Close Brothers  about the faults with the car. And they say that theyve 
not used it since  then. So I find that it would  be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to 
also refund  to them the monthly payments that theyve  made  under the agreement  since  
they were advised  not to use the car (with interest).
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. And I order  
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from 
Mr and Mrs G  both at no cost to them.
Ref: DRN797544632.Refund to Mr and Mrs G any deposit  that they paid for the car. 
3.Refund to Mr and Mrs G the monthly payments  that theyve made under the 
agreement since they were advised  to not use the car in mid-August 2018.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to above.  Close Brothers must give Mr and Mrs G certificates showing how much 
tax its deducted  if they ask it for them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7975446