K822xComplaint
Miss T complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wont refund a number of payments made 
from her current  account she says she didnt make. And that its holding  her responsible for 
a loan she says she didnt take out.
Miss Ts complaint has been brought by her representative. But, for clarity, Ive just referred 
to Miss T in my decision.
Background
I sent Miss T and Barclays a provisional  decision on 1 February 2021 to explain why I felt the 
offer Barclays had made to settle the complaint was fair. An extract  from my provisional 
decision is set out below:
The loan from Barclays
A loan of £5,000 from Barclays was paid into Miss Ts personal account on 1 December 
2016. But Miss T says she didnt  apply for this loan and so shouldnt be held responsible  for 
the subsequent repayments made  towards  it from her account.
Generally, Barclays can hold Miss T liable for a disputed payment  if the evidence  suggests 
its more likely than not that she made it herself or otherwise authorised someone else to 
make it on her account.
Barclays has sent us technical evidence showing the loan of £5,000 was applied for via Miss 
Ts mobile banking on 1 December 2016, using Miss Ts mobile  phone, to be paid into Miss 
Ts personal account and with repayments to be taken  from Miss Ts personal account.  The 
IP address used  for the log-in and application  was also the same as used to log-in to Miss 
Ts mobile banking several  times  in the months  before and after.
But the relevant  regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Barclays  to hold 
Miss T liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more  likely 
than not that Miss T consented  to the loan being taken out.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case.  But 
where the evidence  available  is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Miss T has said that fraudsters had compromised her phone  and suggested  that they could 
mimic the credentials of a mobile phone and IP address to make it appear  differently on 
Barclays records. But Barclays has sent us a detailed  response from its security team 
saying it is confident any compromise like this would  be identified by its security  measures.
Even if what Miss T says is possible without it being  detected by Barclays,  I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest this is what actually happened in this case. And even if this did 
happen, I cant see how the fraudsters wouldve known the log-in  details for Miss Ts mobile 
banking as these  wouldnt have been stored on her phone.
When the funds  from the loan were  paid into Miss Ts personal account,  they also increased 
the balance of the account significantly from around £100 to over £5,000.  A transfer  of 
Ref: DRN72791552£1,000 was then made  to Miss Ts business account and £600 was transferred to an 
external account,  which Miss T hasnt disputed.
Neither of these transfers could have been  made  from the account if the funds from the loan 
hadnt been paid in. And, if she wasnt aware of the loan, I think  its reasonable to expect 
Miss T to have  noticed  the significant increase in the balance  of the account when she 
logged in to make the genuine £600  transfer.
The subsequent activity on the account  is also not the sort of thing wed expect  a thief to do 
after gaining access to someones account.  Generally,  fraudsters will remove as much 
money as possible,  as quickly as possible, in order to avoid the source  of money being cut-
off or them being  detected. But here, the funds from the loan were  removed from the 
account in irregularly timed and sized amounts, several below £10, in between genuine 
payments out of the account and over the following month.
If she wasnt expecting them, I also think its reasonable to expect Miss T to have noticed 
and queried the repayments for the loan leaving her personal account each month.  But 
these werent disputed until nearly 12 months  later.
I appreciate what Miss T has said, that fraudsters will not always  operate in a typical  way 
and may have been trying to cover  their tracks. But based on the evidence I have here, I 
think its more likely  than not that Miss T either took out the loan herself or authorised  
someone else to do so on her account. And so I think  Barclays has acted reasonably  in 
holding her liable for it and not refunding the payments made towards  it.
The remaining  disputed payments
Barclays has sent us evidence showing the remaining  disputed  payments with W and P 
were made using the details from Miss Ts card.
Miss T has said there  was a picture of her card in the photos the fraudsters gained access to 
when they compromised her phone, and that this is how they knew the card details. But, as 
above, while this may be possible, I havent  seen clear evidence that this is what actually 
happened here.
W has sent evidence it was given Miss Ts correct date of birth and mobile phone number 
and that the payments were done from the same  IP address used for genuine activity  on 
Miss Ts account both before and after the disputed payments.  There  were also other 
attempted payments with W using a card that was only sent to Miss T after the disputed 
payments were initially reported.
Miss T has said there  was also a picture  of her driving license in the photos which were 
compromised and that fraudsters can mimic IP addresses to make  it appear as if activity  is 
coming from a different  address  than it actually is. But, again, I havent seen clear evidence  
that this is what likely happened here.
And the disputed payments with both W and P are for varying amounts, spread over a 
number of months in between genuine  transactions and never exhaust the remaining funds 
in the account.  So, as I explained above,  they dont fit the general activity wed expect of 
fraudsters.
Ref: DRN72791553Miss T sent us details of other activity done  in her name and emails sent from her account, 
which she says shows her identity  was stolen and her email account was compromised. But 
I dont think any of this clearly shows it wasnt Miss T who carried  out this activity.
Miss T also relied  on Barclays refunding other transactions  she disputed, and on other 
businesses not holding her responsible for activity done in her name, as evidence  that these 
remaining payments  and the loan should also be refunded. But Barclays  has said the other 
transactions were  refunded due to a lack of evidence, rather  than because it was satisfied 
Miss T hadnt authorised them. And Ive not seen  all the evidence the other  businesses  
relied on or the reasons  for their decisions. So I dont consider  these  to be compelling  
evidence one way or the other.
Miss T also disputed a number of payments from of her personal account to repay  a loan 
taken out with another business.  But any complaint about that loan being taken out 
fraudulently would need to be made  to that business. And I understand the repayments have 
been refunded  by that business too. So Ive not considered these payments further.
I accept that Miss T has made a number  of detailed submissions about  what  could have 
happened and how fraudsters could have gained access  to her details and accounts. And I 
cant say for certain that this isnt what  happened.  But looking at the case as a whole, I think  
its unlikely the fraudsters would have gone  to the lengths necessary to do all the things Miss 
T has suggested in order to make  the types of payments that were  made.  And, based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I think its unlikely this could have all happened  without Miss Ts 
knowledge.
So I think its more likely  than not that Miss T either  took out the loan and made the disputed 
payments herself,  or authorised someone else to do so. And I think Barclays  has acted 
reasonably in not refunding any further  payments to Miss T.
Barclays has offered Miss T £500 compensation for the poor customer  service and 
conflicting information she received both in branch and when speaking  to its fraud team,  and 
for the time taken to resolve her complaint. And I think  this offer is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  these failures caused.
I said Id consider anything further Miss T or Barclays sent in following the provisional  
decision.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays didnt send  anything further  to be considered. Miss T made  several further points 
which I will address below.
As in my provisional decision, Ive not responded individually to every point Miss T and 
Barclays have made,  but I have  considered  everything theyve  sent us and have focused  on 
the issues I think are key to the outcome of the complaint.
Miss T again mentioned that Barclays has refunded  some disputed  transactions but not 
others. But as I said in my provisional  decision, Barclays said those other  transactions  were 
refunded due to a lack of evidence, rather than because it was satisfied  Miss T hadnt 
Ref: DRN72791554authorised them. So I dont think those transactions being refunded  means all the disputed 
payments should  be refunded.
Miss T also questioned the other attempted payments with payment service provider W, and 
sent us evidence that W wasnt  holding her responsible for payments made with it. Ive 
explained the evidence from W shows attempted payments using  a card that was only sent 
to Miss T after the disputed payments were initially reported. And I mentioned  this because I 
cant see how fraudsters wouldve been able to get these  card details. Ive also not seen all 
the evidence W, or any other business,  relied on or the reasons for their decisions. But I 
dont think other businesses not holding Miss T responsible means Barclays  must refund all 
the payments  shes disputed or that evidence from those businesses can no longer be relied 
on.
Miss T again said she didnt check the account  often  and wasnt  particularly aware  of the 
balance of it. But I still think its reasonable to expect her to have noticed the disputed 
payments before she did. And that not reporting  so many payments over such  a long period  
of time suggests Miss T was making  or authorising  them.
And while Miss T also again said fraudsters had gained access  to her email accounts and 
mobile banking,  and had mimicked her IP address, she hasnt sent any further evidence of 
this. So I still dont  agree  that the evidence shes sent us clearly  shows  that these things had 
happened. And, for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I still think  its 
unlikely that fraudsters would have gone  to the lengths necessary to do all the things Miss T 
has suggested in order to make the types  of payments that were made.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I still think the conclusions  I set out in my provisional 
decision are correct. I think its more likely  than not that Miss T either  took out the loan and 
made the disputed  payments herself,  or authorised someone else to do so. So I still think  
Barclays has acted reasonably in not refunding any further payments  to Miss T.
And I still think Barclays offer of £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  its poor customer service caused.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  made an offer to pay £500 to settle  the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should pay Miss T £500,  if it hasnt  already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7279155