K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Acasta European Insurance Company  Limited (Acasta)  has unfairly 
declined an accidental damage insurance claim he made for his sofa.  My references to 
Acasta include its agents.
background
Mr B has a Leather  Care Plan insurance  policy. In September 2018, he made a claim under 
this policy  for an accidental stain to one of his leather sofas.  He said that he fell asleep on it 
one evening, and when he woke up, he was sweating profusely and felt very unwell.  So he 
went to his bed. 
When Mr B woke up the next morning,  he was shocked to find a large stain on the sofa,  in 
the area where his head had been resting  the previous  evening.  Mr B said the stain  hadnt  
been there previously, so he concluded  it mustve happened because  of the sweat from the 
night before. He wanted Acasta  to restore the sofa to its original condition under his policy.
Acasta appointed  a technician to look at the damage in October 2018. The technician visited 
Mr Bs property  and carried out a heat test to assess what mightve caused the issue. This 
showed the presence of oil in the stain,  and the technician  concluded  that the stain  
appeared to be due to a build-up  of external contamination from head oils and perspiration  
and was not consistent with a one off incident  of staining. 
Acasta declined Mr Bs claim on this basis. It referred him to his policy  terms and conditions  
which say that Mr B will be covered  for sudden accidental damage or sudden  accidental 
staining. And that damage due to wear and tear was excluded  under the policy.  As the 
report suggested the stain had happened  over time and was the result  of a build up of 
substance  it didnt think Mr Bs claim was covered. Mr B was unhappy with this and 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and concluded that Acasta had acted fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. He noted that even if the damage had 
occurred due to a one off incident with sweat, the policy  excludes  cover for damage of any 
nature caused  by perspiration, natural hair or body oils. He said sweat can be considered as 
perspiration  so still wouldnt be covered  under the policy. He didnt  uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint. Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint for broadly  the same  reasons as our investigator  
and Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy  allows  him to claim for accidental staining to his leather sofa. Accidental 
staining is defined  in the policy as; The sudden and unforeseen  contact between  products 
and a substance resulting in a stain to the product not otherwise excluded  in the policy. So I 
need to consider, looking at all of the evidence, whether this event meets the criteria  of an 
accidental stain.
Ref: DRN74501692Ive seen the technicians report and photographs  of the stain in question. While I cant know 
for certain  what caused the stain, I have to base my decision on what  I think is most likely to 
have happened, taking  into consideration the information thats available to me.
The technician appointed  by Acasta is an expert  in this area, and Ive found his report to be 
persuasive. And based on what Ive seen, given the intensity and severity of the stain, I think  
its unlikely it happened because of a one off incident. So Im persuaded by the findings  of 
the technicians  report that the stain occurred over time  which means it doesnt meet  the 
policy requirement of being  the result of a sudden contact with a substance. It follows, I 
agree Mr Bs claim  isnt covered under the policy, and so I wont be directing Acasta to pay 
it.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs comments, including what hes said about the policy covering 
stains from bodily fluids, so he thinks sweating  should be covered under  this part of the 
policy. And also what hes said about  the exclusions being  part of the small print.
Ive already explained that I disagree the stain was caused by a one off incident with sweat.  
But for completeness, Ill cover Mr Bs comment about this, as it seems to have been the key 
point for him in this dispute.
Mr Bs policy  says that hell be covered for the sudden and unforeseen contact between 
products and a substance resulting in a stain to the product  as long as its not otherwise 
excluded in the policy. Perspiration,  however, is excluded in the policy,  as has already been  
explained to Mr B. The dictionary defines perspiration as the process of sweating . So even 
if Mr Bs stain was the result of a one off incident with sweating,  Im satisfied the claim still 
wouldnt be covered  under  the policy.
With regards to the policy terms and conditions, I agree that these  are in small print. But in 
large font at the bottom of each page,  it says that the whole  document  can be supplied in 
large print on request, and provides a phone number to contact for this. So Mr B had a 
reasonable opportunity to gain further  clarity,  if he couldnt read the terms and conditions he 
had. So these points  dont change my conclusion  in the circumstances of this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7450169