K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. He is unhappy because a 
personal pension  plan he held with them has been  converted into an annuity without his 
agreement.
background
Mr W held a personal pension plan with Aviva. The terms  of the plan said that it couldnt 
continue beyond age 75. Mr W was 75 in the summer of 2015.
Aviva wrote to Mr W in 2009 with retirement options. These letters  explained that the latest  
retirement date was at age 75. Mr W didnt respond.
Aviva wrote again in February 2015  with retirement  options. This letter  set out that the plan 
would be converted  to an annuity when Mr W reached 75 if no action was taken. Mr W didnt 
respond.
Aviva sent another letter in May 2015 but Mr W didnt respond.
Aviva wrote to Mr W in April 2016 and asked him to make contact but received no response. 
In July 2016 Aviva wrote  and confirmed the plan had been converted into an annuity.
Mr W contacted  Aviva  in November 2018  asking why he had not received an annual 
statement. He was told the plan had been converted to an annuity.  He expressed concern 
about that and asked  how that had happened without his permission. He made  a complaint.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that it would  inform HMRC that Mr W hadnt 
exceeded his lifetime allowance and so adjust the annuity in relation  to tax. But it said that it 
had done nothing wrong, it had followed the terms of the plan which  provided  for conversion 
to an annuity at age 75.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. He said that he had been  receiving medical  
treatment at the time he received these  letters and he had also been inundated with pension 
correspondence. He hadnt thought these letters from Aviva were  specific  to his 
circumstances. He wanted a lump  sum payment so that he could make a payment towards  
his mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Aviva  had done nothing wrong. It 
had taken reasonable steps to inform  Mr W about  his options. It had followed the terms of 
the plan. She noted Mr Ws poor health but explained that the plan rules didnt allow  
extension beyond 75 and this had been  made  reasonably clear.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary,  Aviva could have done more, it didnt contact him 
by phone or send  its correspondence by registered post. He hasnt had the chance  to shop 
around for a better annuity.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN74262382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as the investigator.  I dont uphold this complaint.
There is very little that I can add to what the adjudicator  has already said. Im sorry to hear of 
Mr Ws poor health and can appreciate that this may have impacted on his ability to deal with 
the correspondence he received. But Aviva had informed him of his options as long ago as 
2009. It then wrote  to him on three more occasions before converting the policy  to an 
annuity. The correspondence was all correctly addressed and the letters made clear what  
would happen  if there was no response  before age 75. He didnt  make  any response  at all 
and so I dont  think Aviva was acting  unreasonably  when it converted  the plan. That is what 
the plan terms  provided for and Mr W had been  given sufficient warning in my view.  There is 
no suggestion that Aviva was aware  of any restrictions on Mr Ws ability  to consider  and 
respond to its letters.
I note Mr Ws suggestion  that Aviva could have  done more to contact him. Whilst it may be 
true that it could  have done  more,  I dont think it was acting unreasonably in not doing so. It 
was not obliged to call him. Retirement options  are not straightforward  and need to be set 
out in writing and I think Aviva was entitled to assume that correspondence that was sent 
and received would be read. 
Overall, Im not satisfied  that Aviva has acted  unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. So I 
dont think it would be fair to uphold this complaint. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7426238