K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the service  they received from British  Gas Services Limited  
when their boiler broke down.
background 
Mr and Mrs Os liquid  petroleum  gas (LPG) boiler  broke down in February  2019.  As they had 
homecare cover with British Gas,  they contacted it and arranged for an engineer to visit on 
21 February 2019. 
Mr and Mrs O say the engineer arrived an hour late and told them a part was needed to 
repair the boiler. The part was ordered  and a new appointment was made for the next day to 
fit it. Mr and Mrs O then had a series of engineer appointments and further communication 
with British Gas until the boiler was repaired on 2 March 2019.
Mr and Mrs O are very unhappy with the service British Gas gave  them during this time.  The 
complaint points theyve  made can be summarised  as:
An engineer  didnt attend  as agreed on 22 February 2019. British Gas sent another 
engineer the same  day, but they arrived at a time Mr and Mrs O had already told 
British Gas they wouldnt be in and left the part outside Mr and Mrs Os house.
An engineer  visited as agreed  on 23 February, after Mr and Mrs O contacted  British  
Gas because the original booking disappeared from their online account.  The part 
didnt fix the boiler so a new part was ordered.
An engineer  failed to attend  as agreed  on 25 February 2019. When Mr and Mrs O 
contacted British Gas about this, it said it had cancelled the appointment because  the 
new part wouldnt  be available for a week or so.
British Gas had arranged a telephone appointment  with Mr and Mrs O on 27 Feb 
2019 to provide a quote for a new boiler. But this wasted their time, because  in that 
call British Gas said it needed to visit to give a quote because it was an LPG boiler.
An engineer  failed to attend  as agreed  on 1 March  2019. Mr and Mrs O say they saw 
the engineer arrive,  park and then drive  off without approaching their home. When 
they called  British Gas, it said the engineer had reported there was no-one  home.  It 
agreed to send another engineer before 12pm  since Mr and Mrs O would then be 
unavailable. But no-one arrived  so Mr and Mrs O had to call British  Gas and 
rearrange the appointment for the next day. Mr and Mrs O say British Gas then gave 
them conflicting information about  the original appointment on 1 March 2019 - at first 
it said an engineer  hadnt been. Then  it said an engineer  had been  but didnt have 
the correct part. And then it said an engineer  had been but wasnt qualified  to work 
on their LPG boiler.  Mr and Mrs O say British Gas wasted their time by sending  an 
engineer not qualified  for the job, and that both it and its engineer  lied. 
An engineer  visited on 2 March 2019 and repaired the boiler without  the part British 
Gas had said was needed. Mr and Mrs O say the repair was therefore unnecessarily  
delayed, and they were left without a boiler  for eleven days.
Mr and Mrs O complained  to British Gas, and it accepted it gave them poor customer  
service. It explained there was a shortage of LPG trained engineers and that it would 
internally address the matter of the engineer  incorrectly reporting  they hadnt  been at home 
on 1 March 2019. At first British Gas offered  Mr and Mrs O £100  compensation, but 
ultimately it increased this to £130 in its final response to Mr and Mrs O.
Ref: DRN74651622Mr and Mrs O didnt think this was enough given the inconvenience theyd been put to. So 
they brought their complaint to our service.  They said they hadnt  had a working boiler  for 
eleven days. They said the missed  and cancelled appointments  meant theyd had to 
rearrange things  at short notice and call British Gas many times to find out what happening.  
And they were unhappy to think British Gas had lied to them  and about  them.
After Mr and Mrs O contacted our service, British  Gas reconsidered and increased its offer of 
compensation to £200. Mr and Mrs O didnt accept this so our service continued to 
investigate. And after looking into things, our investigator thought  British  Gas had given 
Mr and Mrs O poor customer  service  and said it should pay them  £250  compensation.
But Mr and Mrs O disagreed. They said £250  wasnt enough to reflect the problems  theyd 
had with British  Gas over the years (some of which theyd  previously  complained to our 
service about) or to make British Gas improve its service. And British Gas also disagreed  
with our investigator - it thought the £200  compensation it had already offered was fair.
As both Mr and Mrs O and British Gas disagreed, this complaint has come  to me for a 
decision. I issued  a provisional decision on 30 January 2020 in which  I said as follows.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold this 
complaint and ask British  Gas to pay Mr and Mrs O £400 compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience and frustration it caused  them. Ill explain why.
But before I explain  my reasons, Id like to be clear that in this decision Im only considering 
this particular complaint.  Im not considering any previous complaints Mr and Mrs O have 
brought to us about British Gas.  Thats because our service looks  at complaints on a case  by 
case basis, and we dont  look again at complaints weve already investigated. 
Id also like to be clear  that our role is not to regulate financial businesses. Instead,  our 
service looks at individual complaints from consumers.  Therefore were not here to punish 
businesses when things  go wrong,  but rather to put consumers back into the position  they 
should have been in.
Mr and Mrs O have detailed the poor service  they say British  Gas gave them  in February 
and early March 2019 during the course  of repairing their boiler. And British Gas itself seems 
to accept the points  theyve  made - its agreed  it gave them poor service.
Since its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs O received poor service from British Gas,  I therefore 
need to decide what would be a fair and reasonable was of putting things right in this 
particular complaint. To do that, Ive thought about  the impact  the poor customer service 
wouldve had on Mr and Mrs O, and what theyve told us about this. And Im satisfied British 
Gas caused them inconvenience and frustration. Ill explain why.
British Gas repeatedly  missed and cancelled appointments at short notice, and Im satisfied 
this wouldve  caused Mr and Mrs O frustration.  And when this happened, Mr and Mrs O said 
they needed to take action to find out what was happening - either by checking their 
appointment online or by calling British Gas for an update. 
Those missed and cancelled appointments needed to be rearranged. Mr and Mrs O said this 
caused them  inconvenience because they had to change things at short notice to make sure 
they could be at home for the rearranged appointments. Mr and Mrs O have also said that 
Ref: DRN74651623when engineers did attend,  they sometimes arrived late or at times Mr and Mrs O had told 
British Gas wasnt convenient for them.  I think  this would  have  added  to their frustration.  
Mr and Mrs O are also very unhappy about what happened on 1 March 2019.  They  said the 
British Gas engineer  lied about them by saying they hadnt been at home.  And that British 
Gas lied to them when  they contacted it later that day, as it gave them three  different 
explanations for what had happened.  Whether British Gas lied or whether  these were  honest 
mistakes, I think Mr and Mrs O would have been frustrated to find that incorrect information 
had been recorded about why the original  appointment  didnt go ahead. And British  Gas 
then giving several different accounts about that would have added to their frustration.
Mr and Mrs O have said they were  left without a boiler for eleven days. Their  boiler had 
broken down, so its fair to say they were likely to be without it for at least some  period of 
time. But British Gas said a part was needed to repair it, and that turned out not to be the 
case. So Im satisfied the repair was probably delayed by a few days, as there were  times 
when engineers were  waiting  for a part that wasnt ultimately needed. Im satisfied this would 
have caused Mr and Mrs O further inconvenience  and frustration.
One of the complaint points Mr and Mrs O have made is that British  Gas wasted their time 
by incorrectly arranging  a telephone appointment for a new boiler quote. But this isnt a 
complaint point I can consider. Thats because our service doesnt have a free hand  to look 
into every  complaint brought to us. Instead  we must  follow  the rules  that set out which 
complaints we can look into - these  are known as the DISP rules.  Providing a quote for a 
new boiler isnt a regulated activity under the DISP  rules, so I dont have the power to 
consider this particular  complaint point. 
But after taking everything else into account,  I think £400 is fairer  and more reasonable 
compensation for the ongoing  inconvenience and increasing frustration British Gas caused 
Mr and Mrs O, given the mistakes outlined above.
Mr and Mrs O didnt provide any comments in response to my provisional decision. But 
British Gas said £400 was more compensation than it would consider in the circumstances 
and the £200 it had already offered was fair. Ive now gone  on to make  my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought £400 was a fair amount of compensation 
given the ongoing inconvenience and increasing frustration British Gas caused  
Mr and Mrs O. And while I acknowledge that British Gas still thinks  the £200 compensation 
its already offered is fair in the circumstances, its offered  no further evidence for me to 
consider about  why that might be the case. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and also above, I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas Services Limited should pay Mr and Mrs O a total of £400  compensation.
Ref: DRN74651624Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7465162