K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about a motorbike he bought with finance provided by Moneybarn  No. 1 
Limited.
background
In August  2017  Mr F bought  a used motorbike under a conditional sale agreement financed 
by Moneybarn. It was three years  old and had been  driven 8,657  miles. Four days later it 
passed its MOT  test. In September he reported a fault, which  was repaired at the time. But in 
May 2018 he reported a number of other faults,  including that the timing  chain  and a 
sprocket were so worn  that theyd had to be replaced (at a mileage of about 11,000 miles), 
and the exhaust valve had seized.  Mr F complained that the bike had been misrepresented 
to him, and he asked  to return  it with nothing more to pay.
It is not in dispute  that the faults  existed, but Moneybarn  did not accept that the faults had 
been present  or developing when the bike was sold. Mr F brought this complaint to our 
Service, and Moneybarn  arranged for an independent inspection to be carried  out by a third 
party. This was on the basis that it would pay for the report  if there had been a fault at the 
point of sale, but Mr F would pay if there had not. By this time the bike had been repaired, so 
the report had to be based  on documentary  evidence.  The report  concluded  that the faults 
had not been present at the point of sale.
Nevertheless, our investigator upheld  this complaint in part. She agreed that there was no 
direct evidence that any of the faults had been present at the point of sale. But she inferred 
that there  must have been some  fault with the timing chain for it to have required replacing 
after less than 12,000 miles. She pointed  out that one of the statutory implied terms of a 
commercial contract for the sale of goods is about  the durability of the goods, and she 
thought that this term had been breached. She said that a timing chain should last between 
40,000 and 100,000 miles. So she recommended that Moneybarn refund Mr F for the cost of 
repairing the timing  chain, and also the sprocket and exhaust valve.
Mr F accepted that opinion, but Moneybarn did not. It argued that the report  was reliable 
evidence, and that when the bike was voluntarily surrendered the mileage was over 12,500 
miles, so Mr F had driven nearly  4,000  miles while hed had it. So this complaint was 
referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has said that he wouldnt have paid £7,295 for the bike if he had known about its age 
and mileage. But these facts were  prominently displayed  in the conditional  sale agreement, 
so I think he knew or at least ought to have known about them  at the time. So I do not 
uphold his complaint about the price  of the bike.
As Ive said already, the bike passed  its MOT  only four days after Mr F bought  it. There were 
no advisories. This is strong evidence that there  were no faults present or developing at the 
time, which suggests that the faults which have appeared  since are merely  the result  of wear 
Ref: DRN76523752and tear. I also take into account that the Consumer Rights Act 2015  states  that the 
consumer bears the burden of proving that faults  which become apparent more than six 
months after the sale were present or developing at the time.
I have read the independent report.  Mr F has questioned the independence and integrity  of 
the firm which produced it, but it is a reputable firm and I have seen  many  reports from it 
before. I consider  it to be a generally  reliable source of information. The individual who wrote  
this report has decades  of experience  in the motor industry. On the whole  subject to one 
exception which I will come to in a moment  I accept his evidence.
For all of these reasons, I agree with our investigators conclusions  about the faults with the 
components other than the timing  chain, sprocket and exhaust valve.  There is no evidence 
at all that these  components were faulty when  Mr F bought the bike,  and plenty of evidence  
to support the opposite view. Moneybarn is only liable for faults which  were  present when he 
bought the bike. So I do not uphold this complaint insofar as it relates  to those parts.
I take a different view about the timing  chain. According to the independent report,  the bike 
was taken to a garage in late May of 2018, when the mileage  was 11,236  miles,  and it was 
found that the timing chain was so worn that it had to be replaced. The author of the report  
concluded that the wear to the timing chain  and sprocket would not be considered to be 
unexpected for a motorcycle of this age with the mileage it has covered. He went on to say 
that Mr F had ridden  the bike about  2,575 miles in the nine months since hed bought it. This 
is less than 300 miles  a month, which I do not consider to be very much.
Various websites say that a timing  chain ought to last between  40,000 and 100,000 miles. 
Some say 60,000 to 100,000. A mileage  of about  11,000 miles falls very far short  of that, 
and so I infer that this was not merely fair wear and tear but the result  of some sort of fault. 
There is no direct evidence  of precisely what that fault was, but I think it is a fair and 
reasonable inference to draw. In any case,  I dont need to identify what  caused  the timing  
chain to wear down so quickly,  because it is enough  to say that the chain was not durable  
it cannot have  been durable  if it lasted for only about  a quarter of its minimum expected 
lifespan. Section  9 of the Consumer Rights Act says that durability is an aspect of the quality 
of goods, and that a contract  to supply goods includes an implied term that the quality  of the 
goods is satisfactory.  I think  that term was breached in this instance, in relation to the timing 
chain, and so I uphold this aspect of this complaint. To that extent,  and for that reason, 
I reject  the independent reports  conclusion about the timing chain  and also about the 
sprocket, because the report  mentions the timing chain and the sprocket together each time 
it refers to them. The cost of that repair should be refunded, with interest.  (Ive seen two 
relevant invoices totalling £699.10.)
However, I do not reach the same  conclusion about  the exhaust valve. I can see no basis  for 
doing so. On balance, I think that part was of satisfactory condition when the bike was sold.
Although the report did not find that there were faults at the point of sale, I do not agree, and 
so for that reason  I think it would be fair to require  Moneybarn to pay for the report, instead 
of Mr F, notwithstanding what was agreed between the parties to the contrary.
my provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any further representations 
I receive from the parties  I intend  to order  Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited to:
Ref: DRN76523753Pay Mr F £699.10 for the cost of replacing  the timing chain and sprocket,
Pay Mr F simple  interest on that sum at eight  per cent a year from 1 June 2018 to the 
date of settlement,
Pay for the cost of the independent  report,  instead of requiring Mr F to pay for it.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr F accepted my provisional decision.  Moneybarn did not. It thought that 40,000 to 100,000 
miles for the duration of a timing chain seemed excessive for a motorbike  of the type Mr F 
had. It asked which websites I had referred to when Id obtained this figure.
I told Moneybarn I had referred to the following websites:
https://www.yourmechanic.com/article/how-long-does-a-timing-chain-last
https://www.mklmotors.com/timing-chain-replacement/
https://oards.com/pros-cons-timing-chain-vs-timing-belt/
Moneybarn replied to say that these websites seemed to refer to timing chains for cars, not 
for motorbikes. Moneybarn also said it had referred to a specialist in the make of motorbike  
Mr F had, who had told them that this particular motorbike had a timing belt, not a timing 
chain, and that the recommended mileage  for changing the belt was 15,500 miles (or 23,000 
kilometres). Moneybarn acknowledged that Mr F had ridden his motorbike  for a shorter 
distance than this, but suggested that the belt would have lasted longer if it had been 
serviced every 6,000 miles  (as recommended) and been well maintained.
my findings
I asked Moneybarn if there was evidence that Mr Fs bike had a belt rather  than a chain. 
Unfortunately, by then the bike had already been  sold and so no evidence was available.  
Since the report uses the word chain twice, and does  not use the word belt at all, I think the 
weight of the evidence supports the conclusion that this bike had a timing chain.
I have looked  again at the websites I referred to when I wrote  my provisional  decision. It is 
not absolutely  clear that they are only about cars and not bikes, but I have looked beyond  
the articles and looked at each website as a whole. Having done so, I can see why 
Moneybarn thinks the websites are really  only about cars, and on the balance  of probabilities 
I agree  with them that this is probably  right. So I searched again for online articles about  
timing chains for motorbikes. I found  the following:
https://packupandride.com/how-often-should-a-motorcycle-chain-be-replaced/
This says:
In general, a properly maintained motorcycle can will last 20,000 to 30,000 miles, 
sometimes more. But, some  last as little as 5,000 to 10,000  miles. This difference is 
due to the type of chain, how and where  you ride, and how well you maintain it.
This undermines my earlier doubts about  the credibility of the independent reports  
conclusion that the damage to the chain was fair wear and tear. I now accept what the report 
says.
Ref: DRN76523754It follows that I am unable  to uphold this complaint after all. I regret  that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr F.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.  But if we do not hear from him then we will 
presume that he rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7652375