K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Clydesdale Bank  Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank has 
overcharged them interest on their mortgage account. They also complain that it told them  it 
would only allow them to let the property out for two years. 
background
Mr and Mrs H had a residential  mortgage with Yorkshire. Several years ago they moved 
abroad when Mr H took a job overseas. But they didnt  sell their property; instead they 
rented it out.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  interest rate reduced to 4%. Its remained at that 
level since 2008. Mr and Mrs H had a flexible mortgage, which  gave them various features.
Mr and Mrs H complain that this rate is too high. They say that other lenders have reduced 
their rates and Yorkshire should have  done so too. They believe theyve  been  overpaying  for 
their mortgage. They  also say that Yorkshire  didnt note their request to change the 
correspondence address on the mortgage and so theyve not received any statements or 
letters about  the interest rate. In particular, they didnt receive  a letter  in 2009 inviting them  to 
review the rate their mortgage was on, or further  letters offering an annual  mortgage review.
Yorkshire didnt uphold their complaint about  the interest rate. And it noted  they were  no 
longer living  in the property. It said this was a breach of the terms of the mortgage,  but it 
would allow them permission to rent it out for two years  at which point Mr and Mrs H would 
have to repay the mortgage, convert  it to a buy to let mortgage, or sell the property. 
Mr and Mrs H said theyd verbally  told Yorkshire  theyd be moving abroad and letting the 
property out and had been  told it would be fine for them to do so. And they said the interest  
rate their mortgage  was on was supposed to be a variable rate  but it had been stuck at 4% 
for years, even after Bank  of England  base  rate fell to a much  lower level.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr and Mrs H have asked 
for an ombudsman to review it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When they took this mortgage out, Mr and Mrs H were given a mortgage offer that set out 
the applicable interest rate. As a flexible  mortgage,  it was on a variable rate right from the 
start. Although the mortgage offer says that the mortgage will be on Yorkshires standard 
variable rate (SVR), in fact it hasnt been.  Yorkshires SVR has fluctuated up and down  for 
example it increased  from 4.59% to 4.95%  in 2012.  Its changed again since, and is currently  
5.2%. However, Mr and Mrs H were actually charged 4% since  November 2008 until they 
redeemed their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was a flexible mortgage,  not a standard one. Among the flexible 
features it entitled them  to were payment holidays and the ability to make  and borrow back 
overpayments. Its not uncommon for flexible  mortgages to be a little more expensive than 
standard mortgages because of the cost to the lender of the flexible features. 
Ref: DRN70279722Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage  market that Yorkshires  SVR  which has 
ranged from 4.59% to 5.2% over the period thats the subject of this complaint  is broadly in 
line with the SVRs of other lenders. And the 4% Mr and Mrs H were actually charged  is also 
broadly in line with the flexible and offset  mortgage rates  of other  lenders  in the market. So I 
dont think Mr and Mrs H were overcharged  by reference to other  comparable  mortgage 
lenders. 
There have been,  during  the time complained  about,  lower rates  made available at times by 
Yorkshire and other lenders. These are generally  fixed and tracker rates. Fixed and tracker  
rates are generally  for a defined period, less than the length of the mortgage as a whole,  and 
customers can apply for new rates as and when an old one expires  though theres no 
guarantee one will be available. Ive not seen any evidence  that Mr and Mrs H ever asked 
Yorkshire to change the interest rate applicable to their mortgage  and it may not have 
been possible to do so with a flexible  mortgage  in any event.
Yorkshire did write to Mr and Mrs H every year with their annual  mortgage statement. The 
statements set out the applicable  interest  rate  not just the amount of interest  charged;  they 
explicitly state the percentage rate. And for several years Yorkshire wrote annually  to 
Mr and Mrs H inviting them to have an annual mortgage review.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt receive any of the statements,  or the annual  review letters.  
They were  sent to the mortgaged property. Mr and Mrs H say they told Yorkshire  theyd 
moved abroad and gave  it their new address, but it continued to write  to their old one, so 
they didnt see any of these documents.
Yorkshire has no record of Mr and Mrs H telling  it of their new address. With the passage of 
time, thats  perhaps  not surprising.  But even  if they did tell it, Id have expected 
Mr and Mrs H to notice that they werent  receiving any post about their mortgage  after a 
while and chase it up. But they didnt.  I see from their tenancy agreement  that theyve 
appointed an attorney  to manage  their financial affairs in the UK. They  could have contacted 
Yorkshire from abroad, or their attorney could have done so on their behalf. They could have 
had their mail re-directed,  either to themselves or their attorney, when they moved  out of the 
property. Or they could  have asked their tenants  to forward it on. So even if they did tell 
Yorkshire theyd moved I dont think Yorkshire  would be wholly  to blame  for Mr and Mrs H 
not receiving any correspondence  about  their mortgage for several years.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage explain that theyre on a variable rate. 
That means that Yorkshire  has the power  to vary the rate from time to time  but it doesnt  
mean it has to. Nothing in the mortgage documentation  suggests that the mortgage  interest  
rate tracks the Bank of England base rate  or any other external benchmark.  And Mr and 
Mrs Hs mortgage has never been  subject to an ERC (early repayment  charge). So theres 
never been anything to stop them moving  their mortgage elsewhere  if they were  unhappy  
with it. Yorkshire even invited them to review  whether it was still the best mortgage for them 
 which  isnt a requirement, and which many  lenders at the time didnt do.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, I dont think  Yorkshire has set the interest  rate 
unfairly or overcharged  Mr and Mrs H. The offer says theyll pay the SVR  but in fact 
theyve paid rather less than that. The rate theyve paid is not out of line with rates  charged  
by other  lenders for similar mortgages.  Theres nothing to suggest it would be the same as, 
or track, base rate. There was nothing to stop Mr and Mrs H changing their mortgage  if they 
werent happy with it, and Yorkshire offered to review whether it was still right for them.
Ref: DRN70279723Turning to the second part of their complaint, I note this was a residential mortgage. That 
means its part of the terms  and conditions that Mr and Mrs H must live in the property and 
not rent it out. Buy to let mortgages  for rental  property  are different mortgages,  with 
different rules, and are priced  in a different way.
In common with most banks, Yorkshire will consider giving residential mortgage customers  
permission to rent the property out  but thats generally for a relatively short  defined period,  
for example while the propertys sold, or to cover a temporary period of working away.  If a 
borrower intends to rent the property out for the long term, the residential mortgage would 
have to be converted to buy to let or paid back.
Mr and Mrs H say they told a branch adviser that they were  moving  abroad  and would  rent 
the property out. Thats  not something a branch  adviser could authorise.  If Mr and Mrs Hs 
application had been properly considered at the time, Yorkshire  might  have granted  it  but 
only for a short  defined period. As it was, they rented  the property out for ten years before 
Yorkshire became  aware and gave them a further two years  to arrange to sell or re-
mortgage. 
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs H have lost out here  they ended up being able to rent the 
property out for up to twelve years,  rather  than the perhaps two years  they would  have got if 
their application  had been considered properly at the time. I know  theyre  unhappy they 
werent able to keep  the mortgage and had to sell the property. But thats always  what  would 
have happened  once Yorkshire understood they were renting the property out. As a result,  I 
dont think theyve been treated unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7027972