K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC  trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc (C&G) - mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy alongside  a further advance against their mortgage in 
2004. They  paid a monthly amount for the policy and the policy  was in Mr Cs sole name.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
C&G should have  made it clear to Mr and Mrs C that they had a choice  in buying the PPI. Mr 
and Mrs C say it wasnt  made clear the PPI was a separate product and they were  led to 
believe they wouldnt get the borrowing if they didnt take the policy. C&G has said Mr and 
Mrs C wouldve been aware  they had a choice about buying it. And its provided us with 
copies of the PPI documents Mr and Mrs C completed at the time. 
There is a separate  proposal form for the PPI which has been completed and Mr and Mrs C 
have also signed.  This leads  me to think that there was a discussion around the policy and 
Mr and Mrs C has selected the level of cover which best suited their circumstances at the 
time. And based  on what I know about how C&G sold policies like this at the time I think the 
optional nature would have been  made  clear. 
So I think most likely that C&G  made Mr and Mrs C aware that they had a choice  about  
buying the PPI, and they chose to take it  although I can understand why they cant  
remember this now. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were pressured into taking the MPPI. But they havent  been able to 
say what C&G said or did to make them feel this way. Thats  understandable given the time 
thats passed. I can accept the advisor may have told them it was a good idea to take the 
policy. But this isnt the same as pressure. So overall I havent  seen enough  to uphold the 
complaint only on what  Mr and Mrs C have  said.
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to make sure the policy was right for 
them  especially Mr C as the policy was taken out in his sole name. From what Ive seen, it 
seems to have been suitable for them based on Mr Cs circumstances at the time. Ill explain 
why:
Mr C met the policys requirements  so was eligible for it.
Ref: DRN70724592Mr C says he wouldve received sick pay benefits from his employer. In the event of a 
successful claim,  the PPI wouldve paid his mortgage repayments for up to 12 
months if Mr and Mrs C was unable to work due to being  too unwell. It would have 
also covered him if he became  unemployed. The policy  wouldve paid out alongside 
Mr Cs employee  benefits. This would  have meant he could have used any sick pay 
he got to pay for other essential  costs.  
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Mr Cs circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim. For example, he didnt have any unusual working 
patterns or an existing  medical  condition. 
I think C&G  couldve  explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Mr and Mrs C would  still have bought it. Mr and Mrs C were  taking  on a large financial 
commitment secured against  their home. So I think  they wouldve  wanted the security of 
knowing Mr Cs mortgage repayments were covered if he was too sick to work or became 
unemployed. And it doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable  for them.   
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  C&G  shouldve  taken reasonable steps  to 
point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Mr and Mrs C. I dont  know  if C&G did 
point these things  out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs C. And 
I dont think clearer information wouldve changed their decision.  I think they still would have 
bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the policy  was suitable for them. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of 
anything C&G mightve done wrong.  
Ive also thought about whether C&G needs  to give Mr and Mrs C some  of the commission 
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 these rules  dont apply.  So 
C&G doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI they had 
with that mortgage.
I know Mr and Mrs C feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. They have put 
time and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought about all the points theyve raised. But 
these points dont  change my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7072459