K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint mortgage with Halifax in 2000. They took out PPI for Mr B to 
protect their monthly mortgage repayments  in the event that he couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators  
view. Mr and Mrs Bs main complaint is that their sick pay and savings  meant they didnt 
need PPI. And they say that if the costs  and benefits  had been  explained,  and theyd been 
given an option  about having PPI, they wouldve declined it.
Mr and Mrs B asked  for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
As Mr and Mrs B had a joint mortgage  Ive looked at both their circumstances when the 
insurance was taken out. 
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs B mightnt  be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when  they arranged their mortgage. This was a long time ago and I cant safely  
rely only on what they say now. I have  to decide what  I think is most likely taking into 
account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to 
have it for Mr B. I can see that theres  a section on their mortgage  application  headed 
Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment Insurance. It says here: We recommend that you 
consider our Mortgage  Repayments Insurance Scheme. Mr and Mrs B signed  this part of 
the form to have PPI  next to where  it says: Yes, I would like to take advantage  of 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance. And Mr and Mrs B have both signed the mortgage 
application at the end. 
Mr and Mrs B also completed a separate PPI application where they put Mr Bs name down 
as the person to be insured and they both signed the completed form to get the policy.  
I think the wording and layout of the paperwork shows  that Mr and Mrs B were made aware  
that it was up to them to choose if they wanted to take out the policy  with their mortgage  
and that they opted to do this for Mr B at the time.
Halifax says it recommended the policy.  So Ive checked to see whether it was right for 
them. Mr B was eligible  for the PPI policy given his circumstances and the terms and 
conditions that applied. 
Ref: DRN77764062Mr B was covered for accident,  sickness and unemployment. Ive taken into account that 
Mr B told us he was entitled to 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay. But if 
he made a successful accident  or sickness claim the policy wouldve paid out on top of any 
work benefits in full and for significantly longer - up to 24 months  per claim. This couldve 
been useful if he had extra costs as a result of being too ill or disabled  to work  especially 
as he wouldve only had half pay after the first 6 months off work.  
And PPI wouldve covered him if hed lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. The 
policy provided long term protection as Mr B couldve made repeated claims on it. 
Apart from a small amount of savings, Mr and Mrs B told us they didnt have any significant 
other means  to rely on to pay their mortgage if Mr B wasnt working. I dont know if 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve always had savings  to fall back on if Mr B wasnt working.  And I dont 
think its likely that Mrs B couldve  managed  the monthly repayments  on her own for very 
long if Mr B wasnt working in the long term as the mortgage was taken out when they were 
both earning. So, I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs B didnt need the policy. I find that 
Halifaxs recommendation was suitable.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover. So, I dont  think  its likely that being  told more information  about this wouldve 
affected his decision  to take it out. 
The monthly premium for the PPI was set out on the application  form Mr B filled in to get the 
cover. So he wouldve  been aware  of this extra cost when he signed up for the policy. And it 
looks like Mr and Mrs B also took out some extra benefit to cover  mortgage related costs   
like household bills. So it seems Mr and Mrs B were happy to pay for the cover they wanted 
at the time and it doesnt seem to have caused  them any money problems. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy  for Mr B even if theyd been 
better informed as the policy  gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) got a high level of commission and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. 
Because Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ref: DRN77764063 my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7776406