K820x#14complaint
Mr C says that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a loan with Lloyds in 1994.  At the same  time he was sold a single premium  
PPI policy  which wouldve covered the repayments  on his loan for up to 12 months at a time 
if he lost his job or until the end of the loan if he couldnt work because he was unwell. The 
cost of the policy was added  to his loan and he paid interest on it.
Mr C says he doesnt remember  anything  about the sale, but that, as Lloyds has refunded 
other PPI he took out in similar  circumstances, it should refund this too.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Cs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr C disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding his case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Over 24 years has passed since the loan and PPI were  sold,  so unsurprisingly  neither party  
can provide much evidence about  the sale. Mr C has provided a copy  of a page of the loan 
agreement form he was given. I can see from it that the PPI is shown separately to the loan 
and is described  as optional. There is also a separate box where the customer has to tick 
yes or no for the PPI. The yes box has a typed X in it. Lloyds says this was most likely a 
branch sale. And its not unusual for a form to be typed for the customer to sign after a 
discussion in a branch.  I think  its likely Mr C saw and signed  this form. I dont think  its likely  
that the loan couldve been  completed without this loan agreement. So, on balance, on the 
limited information available to me I think its more likely than not that Mr C chose  to buy the 
PPI knowing he didnt  have to.
Lloyds advised  Mr C to buy the policy, so it had an obligation to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure it was suitable for him. It also had an obligation to make sure Mr C had all the 
information he needed to make his decision.
Looking at Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable.  I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected  by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as 
those relating to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr C had some substantial  sick pay, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
that and potentially for longer,  to the end of the loan;
Mr C says he had no savings and the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if 
hed lost his job. 
Ref: DRN72302812The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  
around the same time;
If Mr C had wanted the cancel the PPI policy its likely he wouldnt have received a 
proportionate refund of premiums. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that was 
something Mr C intended  to do.
Its possible Mr C didnt get all the information  he shouldve done.  For example I dont know  
how the interest payable on the premium was explained to Mr C. But it was a relatively small 
amount  less than £20. So I dont think if hed understood  this it wouldve made  a difference  
to his decision to buy it. And Ive explained  why I think the policy was suitable  so I dont 
think more information  about the terms and conditions wouldve  changed  Mr Cs decision 
either.
So, on balance, on the limited information  I have,  I dont think Mr C lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds did wrong.
Mr C has said that Lloyds  has refunded the PPI on other loans taken  out at similar  times  and 
in similar  circumstances. But I can only look at this sale under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Im satisfied that Ive done this and my conclusions are as described 
above.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint, so it follows that Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Richard Hill
Ref: DRN7230281