K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs C in 1989,  in connection with a
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr C if he couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Bank  of Scotland gave any advice  or recommendation did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs?
- Did Bank of Scotland give Mr and Mrs C the information they needed to decide whether 
to take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether
Mr and Mrs C are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs C say they were given the impression they had to take the PPI to get the 
mortgage they wanted, and that Bank of Scotland didnt give them  a proper choice about 
buying the policy. Ive noted everything  theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs C and 
Bank of Scotland when the policy was sold. 
Bank of Scotland hasnt been  able to provide much documentation from the time of the sale,  
as these events  happened many years  ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar to some  
other cases Ive seen. 
Ref: DRN77105022In the absence of anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs C have told me, I dont think I 
can fairly and reasonably  say that Bank of Scotland didnt make them aware  that the PPI 
was optional.
Bank of Scotland has accepted that it advised  Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time.  I say this because:
-Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
-Mr C has said he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because  of 
sickness or accident, and that he and Mrs C had some savings. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to Mr Cs employer benefits, and would have allowed him and Mrs C 
to use those  benefits and their savings to cover other expenses.  So I think Mr and Mrs C 
would have  had some use for the policy, despite  their existing  arrangements.
-Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have  benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely he and Mrs C 
needed better  advice or information  about  the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C before they agreed to 
buy it. But the policy was competitively  priced and apparently  affordable. So I think  it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have made a different  decision if better information about 
the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But as Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely
Mr and Mrs C would  have made a different decision if better information had been provided
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Ive noted what  Mr and Mrs C have  said about another  PPI complaint they had that was 
upheld in their favour. But as the adjudicator explained, we look at each complaint 
individually and assess whether the circumstances of the sale meant the PPI was mis-sold. 
And having taken  that approach in this case,  Im not persuaded that the PPI sold in 
connection with Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7710502