K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about the service British Gas Insurance Limited provided when her 
boiler broke  down.
background
Ms W had held a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas on and off since  2012. 
In March 2018 Ms W reinstated the policy and later reported a problem with her boiler   she 
was without hot water. So, British Gas sent an engineer to inspect it. The engineer who 
inspected the boiler  told Ms W it couldnt be covered under the policy because it was 
obsolete.
Ms W complained that the engineer had been  rude and aggressive. So, British Gas arranged  
for another  engineer to attend. However,  this appointment was later cancelled in light of the 
earlier engineers  comments  about the boiler  being  obsolete. This happened  again and 
following this British  Gas wrote to Ms W in April 2018 to advise the policy had been  
cancelled as it couldnt provide cover for her boiler.  During this time it had also made several 
compensation payments for the cancelled appointments.
Ms W complained about the service. She said British Gas had rebooked appointments and 
cancelled them at short  notice. She said the first engineer had become abusive in front of 
her children and told her the boiler  had been  obsolete since 2012.  So, she thought  her 
premiums should be refunded  as she hadnt had the benefit  of cover. Ms W also said 
because of the service  provided, she couldnt make  other arrangements to have the boiler 
fixed. This meant shed been left without hot water  for longer than necessary.
British Gas agreed the service had fallen short and paid £50 compensation, in addition  to 
other compensation that had been  paid when Ms W first complained.  It also agreed to refund 
the premiums paid since Ms W had reinstated the policy in March 2018.  Ms W remained 
unhappy and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought British Gas should pay a total of £600 
compensation, including what had already been paid. But she didnt think  Ms W should 
receive a full refund of premiums  since  2012, this was because the policy  provided  a number 
of other  benefits and Ms W had also made some claims during this time.  So, the investigator 
thought the offer to refund the premiums from March 2018 was fair.
Ms W accepted the recommendation but British Gas didnt respond.
I informed British Gas that I agreed  with the investigators view. It responded saying it 
shouldnt have continued to book appointments, but as Ms W was made aware from the first 
appointment that it couldnt cover the boiler it thought the compensation already offered was 
fair. As no agreement could be reached, Im now providing my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
British Gas accepts that the service provided  fell short. It agrees that it shouldnt  have 
continued to rebook appointments for Ms W as it was aware  from the outset that it couldnt 
Ref: DRN76994762cover her boiler. But it says that Ms W was also aware of this from the outset. It says despite 
knowing this she continued  to call and arrange  appointments. Overall,  it considers that the 
payments made to Ms W, totalling £234.66  represents fair compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Ive considered the matter carefully, but I dont think British Gas records  demonstrate that 
Ms W ignored the advice  of the engineers. The records Ive seen show that when  Ms W first 
called to complain,  it was about the service the engineer  provided   she believed hed been 
rude and aggressive.  By way of apology, British Gas booked another  appointment. So, 
I dont think its the case  that Ms W refused to accept what she was told and instead kept 
requesting appointments.
British Gas accepts that it continued to rebook appointments when  it shouldnt  have. In my 
view, this suggests the notes held on the file about  Ms Ws boiler were inadequate. Had they 
clearly explained  Ms Ws boiler  couldnt  be serviced or repaired, I dont think  the agents  
Ms W spoke  with wouldve agreed to book  further appointments.
Overall, I dont  think that the sum British  Gas has offered to compensate Ms W is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Its clear to me that repairing the boiler was a priority for 
Ms W as she had young children to look after. So, if British Gas had made it clear when it 
first attended  on 21 March 2018 that it couldnt cover  her boiler, and then reinforced  this 
message when Ms W called to complain,  Im satisfied she wouldve made other  
arrangements to either fix or replace it much sooner.
Instead, Ms W was given conflicting information  and had to wait in for several  appointments, 
some of which were cancelled at short notice, all the while  without hot water.  This was over 
a period of around two weeks during extremely cold weather and snow,  with temperatures at 
times below freezing. I dont doubt  that this caused  her significant trouble and upset.
For this reason, I think British Gas should refund the premiums Ms W has paid for the policy  
since March 2018  and pay a total of £600  for the trouble and upset caused. British  Gas can 
deduct the compensation payments already made  from this sum.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Ms W total compensation of £600 for the trouble 
and upset caused by the service it provided.  It should also refund  any premiums paid since 
1 March 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7699476