K820x#14complaint
Mrs W, whos represented  by a third party, has complained to us that Bank of Scotland 
plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1998.
background
Mrs W took out the policy at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the card and the policy at a meeting.
She says the policy wasnt properly explained  to her and wasnt  right for her. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so her complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain  why. 
From what  Ive seen, I think its likely that the agreement was completed  following a 
discussion with BoSs adviser  about the PPI at one of its branches  and not by post as 
Mrs W has suggested - and that Mrs W then signed  the agreement. So I think  its more 
likely BoS made Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ws credit card agreement. The agreement includes a box to be 
completed if a customer wanted  PPI. A cross appears in this box. And theres another  box 
filled in with a cross  to show  when Mrs W wanted to have the PPI payment  deducted  each 
month. Given that the agreement has been signed by Mrs W, I think she would have had 
the opportunity  to review the form at the meeting before agreeing to take out the cover. I 
say this taking  into account the possibility that the two boxes were completed for her 
before she signed  the form.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs W, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs W told us she was in full-
time employment and that she was entitled to employer benefits  of six months at full pay 
followed by six months  at half pay if she was unable to work. She also said that any time 
off work for longer  than that would be subject  to the approval of her employer, which  
suggests it wasnt guaranteed. If Mrs W couldnt  work due to accident  or sickness, the 
PPI wouldve  paid out 10% of her monthly card balance for as long as Mrs W wasnt  
working, or her until card balance was cleared if that was sooner. It also wouldve paid 
out if she lost her job. So I think the policy  couldve been useful to her and would  also 
have avoided the need to have to use her work benefits or other sources of income at 
what could have been a difficult time financially. 
Ref: DRN75708012Mrs W has told us about two medical conditions shed had. But having seen that these  
both happened  after she took out the PPI, and noting the policy  terms, she would have 
still been able to make a claim if theyd led to her taking a significant amount of time off 
work. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs W about the PPI, including details about cost, 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But, having thought carefully  about  this, I think  its 
unlikely Mrs W would  have seen herself  being adversely affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. And I havent  seen anything to make  me think  that shed have 
difficulty paying the monthly premiums. So overall I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
It follows that from the information available to me, I cannot find in her favour  and I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold. 
 
Mrs Ws representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says applies to all PPI complaints.  These  general  points include: a claim that 
we are not correctly  applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; 
these policies represented poor value  because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points  apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular  case. But 
these points do not persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7570801