K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Saga Services Limited  didnt ensure  she had contents cover in place on 
the correct property. When a theft occurred, the underwriter declined  the claim.
background
Ms F arranged a number  of different insurance policies - including  contents insurance,  
breakdown cover and motor insurance  - through Saga. Saga arranged a contents insurance 
policy for the period March 2015 to March 2016 for Ms F which  covered  property  A and was 
underwritten by insurer H. In March 2015  Ms F moved to property B. 
In August  2016  Ms F called Saga  to discuss a renewal of one of her policies. She gave her 
address as property  B so the advisor  Ms F spoke to didnt find the contents  policy  Ms F had 
for property  A. He did confirm there was no contents  policy in place for property B so a policy 
was set up. As no mention  of property A was made  during the call, that policy  wasnt 
cancelled. The underwriter of the policy for property B was L. 
Later in August 2016 Ms F discovered all her jewellery had been  stolen.  She suspected this 
had been taken by a guest who had stayed with her (at property B) between September  and 
November 2015.  In July 2017, Ms F called  Saga to report the claim giving her address as 
property B. The date of the theft was noted as August/September 2016. Saga provided 
Ms F with the contact details of underwriter  L so she could make a claim under her policy  
which she did. 
Ms F had moved home again in March 2017  to property C. On notifying Saga  of her new 
address, it was discovered  that there had been  two contents policies in her name since 
August 2016.  It cancelled  the one relating to property B and changed the address on the one 
for property  A to property C. Saga issued a final response letter  in May 2017 refunding Ms F 
the duplicate premiums and offering compensation of £65 for the inconvenience shed been 
caused. Ms F accepted the compensation offered  in July 2017.
When L declined the claim on the grounds  it wasnt insuring property B at the time of the 
theft, Ms F complained again to Saga in January 2019. She also said Saga had directed her 
to the wrong underwriter  and she was unhappy about the amount shed been refunded in 
May 2017. And she said itd cancelled the wrong  policy and that her renewal date had 
changed as a result. 
Saga looked  into Ms Fs complaint and issued its final response in May 2019. It said that as 
the date of the theft had been recorded as August/September 2016 it had directed her to 
underwriter L. It said itd since contacted L and it had said that the theft had occurred in 2015  
before it was on risk, not 2016. So, it said the only policy in force at the time of the theft was 
for property  A when  in fact, the theft had taken place from property B. But it said there was 
cover under the property A policy for unspecified,  and certain  specified,  personal belongings 
away from the home so it was possible that there may be some cover  in place for Ms F to 
claim against. It recommended that Ms F contact underwriter H to make  a claim. Saga said 
the correct policy had been cancelled,  the correct amount  had been  refunded  and that 
Ms Fs renewal date had remained  the same. So, Saga said it wasnt upholding Ms Fs 
complaint. 
Ms F was unhappy that Saga said there  was no cover in place for property B at the time of 
the theft. She said shed moved  into property  B in March  2015 and had told Saga she had at 
Ref: DRN76070302the time.  Ms F provided Saga with copies of her bank statements which  showed  her correct 
address and the direct debits it was collecting every  month. She said Saga had collected 
direct debits for two contents policies for both property A and property B from March 2015.  
So, Ms F said there was no reason for Saga to decline her claim.  She said that Saga  was 
denying she had cover  for property  B.
Saga looked  into Ms Fs complaint but said that it could find no cover  in place for property B 
before August 2016. Saga said that it was an insurance intermediary responsible  for selling 
and administering  the policy. It said that all claims matters were  handled  by the policy  
underwriter. 
Unhappy with Sagas findings, Ms F complained  to this service. Our investigator looked into 
her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  Ms F disagreed with our 
investigators findings. She said shed been dual insured from March 2015 when shed called 
Saga to update it about her new address. She said it was Saga that had left her old address 
on her policy.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but she wasnt persuaded to change  her 
mind. Ms F replied to say the address for property B was on her bank statements from 
March 2015 and it wouldnt have been  there  if she wasnt living there. She said there were 
two direct debits on her bank statements from March 2015 which were for two contents  
policies. She said Saga  had cancelled her policy when it was told about her theft.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth saying  at the start of my findings  that Im only looking  here at Ms Fs 
complaint about  Saga.  Saga is an insurance intermediary. That means it sells, arranges and 
administers policies on behalf of its panel of insurers (underwriters). Saga isnt responsible 
for handling claims  they are dealt with by the policy underwriter. As can be seen  from 
Ms Fs policies Ive referred  to above, the underwriter on a policy  can change from one year 
to the next. Since making her complaint to this service, I understand Ms F has made  claim 
for theft to underwriter  H. And I can see that Ms F is unhappy with the decision taken by 
underwriter H in relation  to her claim. But because  this complaint is about the actions of 
Saga, I cant  look at that for her here.  I understand that she has made a separate complaint 
to this service about H. 
It is also worth stating  that this complaint only relates to the issues  addressed  by Saga in its 
May 2019 final response letter.  I cant look at anything  Ms F is unhappy about in relation to 
the complaint  that was addressed by Saga in May 2017 because Ms F didnt complain to this 
service about that complaint within six months  of receiving Sagas final response  letter.
two policies and premium refund
Ms F says she told Saga in March 2015 that she had moved to property B. She says she 
was paying two premiums  for two contents policies from this point onwards (Ms F refers to 
premiums of £13.01  and £22.70)  and she says the address on her bank statements proves 
she had changed  address. 
Ref: DRN76070303I agree  with Ms F that the address on her bank statements  is evidence  that shed  moved to 
property B in March  2015. But in order to find that Saga had failed to set up a contents policy  
for property  B at her request in March 2015 I would need to see some evidence  that Ms F 
had asked it to and that itd failed to act on her behalf. Unfortunately for Ms F theres no 
evidence that she did ask Saga in March 2015  to set up a contents policy for property B. As I 
cant see any evidence that she made  such a request, I cant  fairly  conclude that Saga failed 
to set up the policy. And if Ms F had asked it to do so (and Saga  subsequently cancelled it 
when the theft claim was notified as she has suggested), then when she called it in August  
2016 to discuss  the renewal of another of her policies then, on giving  her address as 
property B, Saga  wouldve  located  the policy rather than arranging  new cover.
The evidence Ive seen  is that the policy that started  in March 2015  was for property A and it 
wasnt until August 2016  that a policy was first set up for property B. And, as no reference 
was made  by Ms F during  the August 2016 call about the address for property A, the policy 
Ms F had for it went undetected by Saga.  The other policies Ms F had with Saga were found 
on its system  but I understand these had been  changed to reflect  the address as property B. 
Consequently, the contents policy for property  A was left to run until it was discovered in 
March 2017, when Ms F moved home again and called  to update her policy  details.
Ms F says that her bank statements prove she was paying for two policies because  there  
were two direct debits being taken from her account  from March 2015  one for £22.70  and 
one for £13.01. The direct debit for £13.01  relates to the contents policy for property A. 
Based on what Saga  has told us, the direct  debit for £22.70 doesnt  relate  to a contents 
policy for property B. Ms F says the policy for property B first started in March 2015  so the 
refund she receives  should be calculated from then but I cant  reasonably  make  Saga refund 
premiums from March  2015 for a policy that doesnt exist. As Ive set out above, theres no 
evidence that Ive seen that shows Ms F had a policy for property B from March  2015.
underwriter
When Ms F called Saga to report the theft claim in July 2017, some  confusion seems to 
have arisen between them both regarding the date of the theft so that Saga appears  to have 
recorded it as occurring in August 2016 (which was, in fact, the date Ms F discovered the 
theft but not the date she thought it had occurred).  As a consequence of believing the theft 
had occurred in August  2016, Saga identified underwriter L as the underwriter to which  Ms F 
needed to submit her claim. That was the underwriter  of the policy  for property B (from 
where the theft had occurred) which was, so Saga believed,  on risk at the time of the theft. 
Its reasonable to think that at some point  during the claim Ms F made  to L that the correct  
date of the theft (September to November  2015)  must  have come  to light following which  it 
declined the claim  because it hadnt been on risk at the time.  
Ms F says Saga directed  her to the wrong  underwriter.  But from Sagas records of the 
conversation in July 2017, I can see it recorded the date of the claim as August 2016 and I 
think it gave Ms F information  about  which underwriter to submit  her claim to based  on the 
information she gave  it in this call. I dont  think Saga intentionally gave Ms F the name of the 
wrong underwriter.  Once Ms F contacted  Saga again in 2019,  she was provided with the 
contact details for H (the underwriter of the contents  policy for property A in force  at the time 
of the theft)  and she has now pursued  her claim there. 
cancellation and renewal date
Ref: DRN76070304Ms F complained to Saga  that it cancelled the wrong  policy and that her renewal date had 
altered. As I understand it, in March 2017, upon  discovery of the two policies, Saga 
cancelled the policy for property  B and refunded the premiums. At the same  time, it changed 
the address on the policy for property  A to that of property C. As far as I can see the renewal  
date for that policy remained  unchanged. So, I cant reasonably find that Saga did anything  
wrong in this respect. 
conclusion
Whilst I appreciate the strength of feeling Ms F has about the concerns shes  raised,  for the 
reasons Ive given,  I cant reasonably uphold her complaint against  Saga. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7607030