K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management  Plc (SJP)  gave her 
unsuitable investment  advice.
background 
Ms W was advised, in 2013,  to invest in a bond  by SJP. She explained at the time that she 
intended to permanently move to the Republic of Ireland.  When  this move  took place she 
found out that any gain or withdrawal on her investment would be subject  to withholding tax. 
She complained to SJP.
SJP upheld Ms Ws complaint. It compared  what her investment would be worth against the 
index used for medium risk investors and offered to compensate her for this amount. It also 
said it would  waive the early withdrawal charge, cover the withholding tax and pay £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  SJP also said that it would cover the cost of an 
appointment with a financial advisor  in Ireland  as it couldnt provide advice to her now she 
had moved out of the UK.
Our investigator felt the offer was fair and reasonable.  He felt it put Ms W into the position 
she wouldve been in had the unsuitable  advice not been given.  He also felt £500 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Ms W was fair. Ms W disagreed.  She felt that SJP should pay 
more for the distress that it had caused  her. So she asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision.
After the complaint was passed to me, our investigator contacted both Ms W and SJP to 
explain that if I reached the same outcome, the redress would be worded differently. SJP 
didnt respond  and Ms W asked for clarification which the investigator provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This complaint has been upheld by SJP so Ive decided whether it has done enough to put 
things right. I agree that it should compare the performance between  the actual performance  
of Ms Ws investment  and the benchmark index  SJP used  but as the investment bond is 
still open I think it is important to bring  that comparison up to date. This is reflected  in the 
redress below. Because  this, together with SJP covering  the early  withdrawal  charge  and 
withholding tax puts Ms W in the position  she wouldve been  in had the unsuitable  advice not 
been given.
Ive carefully considered  whether £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms W is fair and 
reasonable. I believe it is. It must have been  frustrating and a shock to find out her 
investment would be subject to such  a large  amount of tax when she moved  to the Republic 
of Ireland - particularly  as she had told SJP this when she received the advice. But I do think  
that £500 is fair to compensate for the distress caused. I appreciate  that Ms W wouldve 
been upset and is anxious over the amount her investment is worth,  but the redress  puts her 
in the position she would  have been in had she not received unsuitable  advice. So the 
payment of £500  is to compensate only for the trouble and upset this has caused her. And I 
think this amount is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN75771732Therefore to put things right SJP should follow the directions  below.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms W 
as close to the position she would  probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Ms W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Ms Ws circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  SJP do?
To compensate Ms W fairly, SJP must:
Compare the performance of Ms Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to Ms W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by her having to get 
further advice.  This also covers the upset that Ms W experienced when finding  out 
she may lose such a large amount of her investment to tax she wasnt made aware 
of.
To cover  withholding tax of 41% due on any gain to the date of settlement
To waive any Early  Withdrawal Charge associated with the Bond.
The reasonable  costs of initial advice from an advisor, upon  receipt  of an invoice
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SJP 
International 
Investment  
Bondstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income  Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days  of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value  
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Ref: DRN75771733fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ms W wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Ms Ws 
circumstances and risk attitude
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc must follow  the 
directions set put above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7577173