K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Quidie Limited irresponsibly gave him loans he couldnt  afford  to pay 
back.
background
Quidie gave Mr H 3 loans  between December 2017  and April 2018.  A summary of Mr Hs 
lending is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 05/12/2017 26/01/2018 3 £100.00 £72.84
2 26/01/2018 25/04/2018 4 £300.00 £103.40
3 26/04/2018 Outstanding            6 £400.00 £105.26
 
Mr H says that proportionate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided.  He 
says if these had taken place Quidie would  have realised he was reliant on short  term loans 
and that the loans werent affordable.
Quidie says that before the loans  were provided  it carried out through  affordability and credit 
checks. It verified Mr Hs employment  and says based on the information it gathered the 
lending was affordable. 
Our adjudicator thought that Quidie shouldnt have given any of the loans to Mr H based on 
the information it gathered. He said that the information in Mr Hs credit  check  showed that 
Mr H was having difficulty managing his money  and was reliant  on short term credit.  Mr H 
had defaulted  on 3 accounts in the 6 months before taking out loan 1 and had opened 92 
credit accounts in 6 years.  Our adjudicator thought  that this demonstrated that Mr H was in 
difficulty and would  be unlikely to be able to repay any further lending.
 
Disappointingly, Quidie  didnt  reply to our adjudicators  view and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quidie needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quidie should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
Ref: DRN73016162the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidie was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I have looked  at the information gathered, including income and credit checks  obtained by 
Quidie and I agree with the adjudicator that this information showed that Mr H was in 
difficulty. In July 2017 a default  was recorded on 3 of Mr Hs accounts and he had an 
outstanding default balance of over £10,000.  These were recent defaults and indicated  that 
Mr H wasnt properly managing his money.  In addition  Mr Hs credit report showed Quidie 
that he had taken out a significant  number of credit accounts. This report suggested that Mr 
H was reliant on short  term credit and further lending  wasnt sustainable for him.
Mr H went on to borrow increasing amounts from Quidie on the day each loan was to be 
repaid until he was eventually unable to repay  what he had borrowed.  This further suggests  
that the lending was not affordable for Mr H as he had to borrow  again to repay  his loans. So 
I dont think that Quidie should  have  given Mr H any of the loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Quidie Limited should:
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from all of the loans, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Mr H having made overpayments then these should be refunded  with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.
Ref: DRN73016163B.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated above  should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr H. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Quidie should  try to agree  an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr H.
C.Remove any adverse  information about the loans from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie  Limited  to take off tax from this interest.  Quidie 
Limited must  give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7301616