K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under his mobile phone  insurance policy  
provided with his bank account. The policy is underwritten  by Assurant General Insurance 
Limited. It uses  agents to deal with claims on its behalf and all references to Assurant in this 
decision should be read as including anything said or done  on its behalf by those agents. 
background
Mr F made a claim in August 2018 for a damaged  phone. Assurant repaired the phone and 
returned it. However, a few weeks after the return of the phone, Mr F reported that it was 
faulty. Assurant carried  out a further repair but Mr F said the phone was still faulty.  Assurant 
therefore agreed to replace the phone,  by way of a doorstep exchange where it would take 
the old phone and provide  Mr F with a replacement.   
Arrangements were  made to deliver  the new phone  on 30 November 2018. Mr F says he 
arranged to work from home to accept delivery.  Mr F was informed that around 11am he 
would be given a one hour delivery slot. However, at 11am he was sent a text saying 
delivery would be between 6am and 10pm. At 10:20pm, having not received the delivery,    
Mr F checked the couriers website and it said 3pm: Unable to deliver, calling card left. 
Mr F says he did not see or hear the delivery  driver and no card was left. Mr F contacted 
Assurant the next morning  who said delivery would be attempted again that day. The phone  
didnt arrive and Mr F had to call again. Assurant said it would be delivered on 3 December 
2018 but I understand Mr F couldnt  be available then, so delivery was arranged for 5 
December 2018.  This time it was successful. 
Assurant investigated  with the courier what had happened on 30 November 2018 and it 
provided GPS coordinates that it says show its driver was at Mr Fs house. The records  of 
the driver  also say a card was put through the door but an email was not sent to Mr F at the 
time, due to a problem  with the drivers handheld device. Assurant says the failed delivery 
was not therefore due to anything it had done wrong and says it told Mr F that delivery was 
not guaranteed on 1 December 2018. However, it offered £25 as compensation.
Mr F disputes this evidence and has provided coordinates for his house  and which show that 
those provided by the courier are for another property  nearby. He also says the same courier 
delivered another expensive parcel (unrelated  to this claim and complaint) to the wrong 
address shortly after this and has asked that we obtain evidence about  this to support his 
complaint. Mr F is extremely unhappy with the service provided and says his wife had to go 
away on 3 December 2018 with a damaged phone. He has asked for full financial 
compensation for: 2 full days having  to wait for the parcel to arrive  having set false 
expectations and lied about the delivery of the parcel on Fr 30/11 and Sat 01/12 [and for] 
104 min of mobile phone  calls with [Assurant]  for this. 
Mr F provided his payslips but also says he is not claiming compensation for lost earnings 
because he was able to work  from home  on the first of the two days  he was waiting for his
phone to be delivered. Mr F says he is claiming  for the inconvenience  caused by having  to 
take the day off; further inconvenience  caused  by having to waste  two days staying in 
waiting for the parcel; and his phone  bill for 104 minutes of calls to Assurant.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. He thought it was likely the courier had gone  to the wrong address on 1 December 
Ref: DRN776605422018 and acknowledged Mr F had been inconvenienced by the failures to deliver the 
replacement phone but he thought its offer of £25 compensation was reasonable and did not 
recommend any additional  award. 
Mr F does  not accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been passed to 
me. Mr F cant understand how the investigator  reached the conclusions he did based on the 
evidence he has provided.  
Mr F also says that he has not been compensated at all for this issue;  the £25 compensation 
was for a previous event, the day before, when Assurant returned a mobile  phone, 
supposedly fixed when  it wasnt.   £25 for the inconvenience caused by the delivery process 
would be an insult.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant agreed to replace Mr Fs phone. Having agreed this, I would expect a replacement  
to be provided within  a reasonable time. Assurant did arrange a delivery promptly but this 
didnt happen.  
Mr F has provided  evidence that the GPS coordinates provided by the courier are for a 
different address and says there is no way the driver  attended his property, as he was 
working in a room  which  looks out to the front of the house. Mr F has also referred to a 
problem with another delivery by the same courier. It is difficult  for me to be certain what  
happened on 30 November 2018,  however, I do find Mr Fs evidence about  this credible. It is 
possible the courier went to the wrong  property and did not go to his house. 
However, even if I proceed on the basis that the courier failed  to deliver the phone  due to an 
error on its part (while acting on behalf  of Assurant),  I do not uphold this complaint. I say this 
because I agree with the investigator that the offer of compensation already made is not 
unreasonable in all the circumstances.  
Sometimes things go wrong and mistakes are made in the course of our day to day lives. 
But even where  a financial business has made an error there  is no automatic right to 
compensation. 
It would undoubtedly  have been  annoying and frustrating to not have the phone delivered on 
30 November 2018. Assurant then told Mr F it would try and deliver the phone  the next day 
but did also warn Mr F that it might  not be delivered until 3 December 2018. That was then 
rearranged (apparently at his request)  for 5 December 2018 and it was delivered at around 
10.30 am on that day. 
Mr F has said he was able to work  from home on 30 November  2018  and his wife was also 
apparently home for part of that time at least (as he says she was washing the car at the 
time the courier said he attempted delivery). Mr F said he worked at home on one of the 
other days as well but also had to take a day off. I dont have any other evidence  of Mr F 
taking annual leave.  Having considered everything, I am not persuaded that these were 
entirely wasted days. Mr F was able to work from home for most  of the time required. He 
was also warned that delivery might not take place on 1 December 2018 and he wasnt  sent 
Ref: DRN77660543any delivery time slot on that day. The delivery was then made early on 5 December 2018. 
His time on these days was not therefore  exclusively involved in the deliveries.
Mr F has also said his wife had to go away with the faulty phone.  Whilst it was faulty, it 
appears it was working and so neither Mr F nor his wife were without use of a phone at all 
over this period.  
Mr F also had to phone  to rearrange the deliveries. He says he spent 104 minutes on the 
phone in relation to this complaint. I do not have evidence to confirm the time he spent on 
the phone  but I do accept  that he had to phone at least three times to rearrange  the 
deliveries. He spent  more time telephoning about  the complaint but we do not normally  
compensate for the time and effort involved in bringing a complaint. Mr F has confirmed the 
number he called was a free phone number. 
While all this would  undoubtedly have been frustrating, I agree that the offer of £25 
compensation already made  is not unreasonable and is not out of line with other  awards 
made in similar situations.   
 
Mr F says this offer was in relation to the fact the phone was faulty  and not for the failed 
delivery. However, Assurants file notes record that the offer was made during the telephone 
call with Mr F on 1 December 2018, when he called about the failed delivery the day before. 
Therefore, based  on the evidence available to me, I am satisfied the offer is in relation to the 
same subject matter as this complaint.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, as I consider Assurant Insurance Limited has already made a 
reasonable offer to settle the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7766054