K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has rejected their claim for the 
curtailment of a trip after Mr M became ill.
background
On 20 November 2018, when Mr and Mrs M were  on a trip abroad, Mr M was taken  ill. He 
waited until the next day but still felt unwell so he called UKIs assistance  service. Ive 
listened to the recording  of that conversation. 
Mr M explained that hed been feeling  not 100% and his wife was worried.  He said he'd like 
to understand  the process to get back home. UKIs  assistance service asked if he'd been to 
hospital. He said no, he'd rather just get back home.  He was told that in order  for any 
repatriation or any curtailment arrangements to be made hed need to see a local doctor and 
get a medical  report which would be referred to UKIs medical  team. Once it had his 
diagnosis, it would then advise what was best,  and whether that was to curtail his trip. He 
was told that a decision on a curtailment claim could  take two days, possibly  longer,  after the 
medical report had been  provided.  He was told that without a medical report,  no decision 
could be made on whether curtailment was approved. He was told that if he made his own 
arrangements to return home, it couldnt  be confirmed to him that a claim for curtailment 
would be covered once he was back in the UK.
Mr M didnt  consult a local doctor, and decided to return home. Mr and Mrs M returned to the 
UK on 23 November. Mr M didnt go to an A&E unit upon his return but saw his GP on 26 
November and his consultant on 28 November.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim for the curtailment of their trip. UKI rejected the claim on the 
basis that Mr M hadnt taken the required action whilst still abroad and made  the decision to 
come home without seeking medical attention locally or further advice from UKIs claims 
assistance service.
It drew his attention  to the policy wording which states;
"E ' Curtailment (cutting a journey short)
What you are covered  for
1. Curtailment due to early return
We will reimburse up to £5,000 per insured person, for
a) Unused travel and accommodation expenses, and
b) Additional travel  expenses needed  to return you to the UK (repatriation) which have been 
authorised by the assistance  service which you cannot recover from any other source 
following curtailment of a journey due to
1. Death or serious injury or illness to 
a) you
"What you are not covered for (exclusions)
In addition to anything mentioned in the General Exclusions,  we will not pay for claims which 
are a result of:
15. An accident or illness, unless  the treating medical practitioner on your journey  
confirms in writing that curtailment is medically  necessary."  (my emphasis added )
Ref: DRN76457362Mr M has said that he had difficulty in finding an English  speaking  doctor  where he was on 
his trip. He did provide a letter from his consultant after his appointment with her following 
his return in which she said that she agreed  that for Mr M to have returned home was the 
best course of action  he could take.
Following UKIs rejection  of his claim, Mr and Mrs M brought  their complaint to this service. 
They want  UKI to settle their claim for the costs they have lost by cutting short their trip.
Our investigator didnt  consider that UKI had done  anything wrong and that it was acting  in 
accordance with the terms  of the policy. Mr and Mrs M dont agree with our investigator,  and 
have asked that their complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so its been referred to 
me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint and Ill explain why not.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, and specifically the section covering 
claims for curtailment which Ive quoted above. The terms  of this section seem to me to be 
quite clear.
The section explains what steps  an insured  person needs to take to be able to make a claim 
for curtailment. And Mr M also telephoned UKIs assistance team and was given clear  advice  
about what he needed to do if he wanted  to potentially make  a claim for curtailment. He was 
told that he needed to consult a local doctor  and obtain a report which UKIs medical team  
would first consider  to decide whether it was medically necessary for Mr M to curtail his trip. 
This is what  Mr Ms policy requires him to do as a condition of any claim for curtailment. It 
isnt obliged to pay curtailment compensation in any other circumstances.
Mr M considers that UKI has ignored the video evidence he offered of his condition at the 
time he was unwell. But UKI doesnt dispute that Mr M had been  unwell.  What  it required 
was a medical opinion that his illness was sufficiently serious as to necessitate an immediate 
return home.  The section  in his policy quoted above refers to serious injury or illness. After 
Mr M returned home (on a Friday),  he didnt  seek urgent medical attention by visiting an A&E 
unit, although he did see his doctor on the following Monday, and saw his consultant on the 
following Wednesday.  Although his consultant  has stated that she agreed that for Mr M to 
have returned  home  was the best course  of action  he could take, this was based on her 
assessment made five days  after he got home. And I dont think  that this is quite the same 
as saying that his immediate  return home was medically necessary.
UKI relies on the clear condition of Mr Ms policy, which  was specifically brought to his 
attention whilst he was still abroad, that it needs a medical opinion  before curtailment, not 
after. Such an opinion  would inform whether it was medically necessary for him to return 
home, or whether there was some other option,  such as treatment locally. UKIs assistance 
service mightve been able to advise where Mr M couldve gone locally  for an opinion  on his 
condition or possible  treatment which mightve avoided a return home. Whatever  views  
might be expressed by a doctor or consultant  when  back home,  they arent what  the policy 
requires.
Ref: DRN76457363If Mr M had visited an A&E unit promptly upon his return, this would only have given UKI the 
opportunity to get a medical opinion  as close as possible  to the decision to curtail, and it 
mightve been persuasive in UKI considering a goodwill gesture. But UKI isnt under any 
obligation to give such advice or to consider any medical opinion obtained after the insured  
has returned home. The terms of the policy are clear as to the evidence thats required for 
any curtailment claim to be considered.  
In the circumstances, I dont think that UKI has acted unreasonably in declining  Mr and Mrs 
Ms claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7645736