K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, (trading  as Halifax), mis-sold her a mortgage  
payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Ms R took out the MPPI in 1997, at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Halifax had done  anything wrong. As Ms R disagreed  with 
this view the matter has come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Rs complaint because:
Ms R has said that Halifax didnt present the MPPI as optional.  But she has also told us that 
it highly  recommended the policy  and advised her to take it out. I dont consider these latter  
comments amount to a suggestion that Halifax told Ms R that she had to have the MPPI. 
Because the sale was so long ago I can understand why Ms R hasnt given us any more 
detail of what Halifax actually said. And without any more persuasive evidence  I dont 
consider that I have  enough information to conclude that Halifax  didnt make it clear to Ms R 
that the policy was optional.
Ms R says that Halifax advised  her to take out the insurance. This means it ought to have 
taken reasonable  steps to ensure that it was suitable for her needs. I dont know what steps 
Halifax took, if any, but I find that the MPPI  was suitable  in any event. I say this because, 
knowing what I do about Ms Rs circumstances at the time, and the terms and conditions of 
the policy:
Ms R was eligible  for the policy;
Ms R wasnt caught by any of the MPPIs main restrictions and limitations  such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition or who was self-employed;
Ms R has told us that she was entitled to sickness and redundancy payments from her 
employer and had savings to help her make her mortgage repayments had she been off 
work. However, following a successful  claim the policy,  would have paid out £200 a 
month had Ms R not been working because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
These payments  would  have  been made for up to 12 months and would have  been  paid 
in addition to anything she got from her employment   leaving the latter  available  to help 
with her other expenditure while she wasnt working  . So I think  that the MPPI could have 
been of use to Ms R;
The policy was competitively priced  by reference to other policies available  in the market  
at the time;
Ref: DRN77853812 Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Ms R couldnt afford the insurance. In any event,  as it 
was paid for monthly, she could  have cancelled the policy  at any time had she later felt 
that it was unaffordable or she no longer required it;
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Ms R all the information about the MPPI that it ought to 
have so that she could make  a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. But in view of 
what Ive concluded  above I dont think that clearer information would have stopped  her 
buying it. I reach this conclusion particularly taking into account the possible serious 
consequences that could have arisen  had Ms R not been able to keep up her mortgage 
repayments, which were  secured on her home.
This means  I dont  think that Ms R has lost out because of anything  Halifax  may have done 
wrong, or omitted to do, during the sale. So theres  nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said above,  Ive considered everything  that Ms R has told us, including  that she had 
an endowment policy  and was in a secure  job. However I dont  find that these points  are 
sufficient for me to conclude that she had no use for the MPPI. So these and her other 
comments dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785381