K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about a disputed transaction taken from his account.   He would like Monese 
Ltd to refund  this to him.
background
Mr S complained to Monese about a transaction on his account which he said he hadnt 
made nor authorised.   Monese asked him for some more information about the use of his 
account and in his response, Mr S confirmed that he had given his card and PIN to his 
daughter on a previous occasion to use in a shop.
Monese then rejected his complaint.  It said that he had been grossly  negligent, he shouldnt 
have disclosed secure information about his account to a third person and that the usage  on 
the card was not typical of a fraudster.  In  the circumstances,  it said he would be held liable 
for the transaction.
Mr S then brought  his complaint to this service  where our investigator looked into matters for 
him.
Our investigator did not think Monese  had dealt with the complaint fairly.  He  thought  that Mr 
S should not be held liable for the transaction for the following reasons:
-Whilst he thought  the payment had been authenticated, he did not agree that Mr S 
had consented  to the transaction  an essential  element  in considering  authorisation. 
He thought it was more  likely that Mr Ss daughter had used his card without  his 
permission.
-Under the relevant rules, as the transaction involved a distant contract  - and Mr S 
had not consented - he could  not be held liable.
 Mr S agreed with these  findings but Monese did not and asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will be 
upholding Mr Ss complaints  for very much the same reasons as the investigator.
In fact, Im not sure if there  is much  that I can helpfully add.
The crux of Moneses objection is unfounded I am afraid. It says that it is excluded from 
being a party to a distant  contract because of the nature of its business.   But,  as the 
investigator explained  the contract is not between Mr S and Monese but rather between Mr 
S and the merchant  responsible for the disputed transaction.
The rules  have been applied correctly here  so I am afraid I agree that Mr S cannot be held 
liable for the transaction  which he disputes.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN78921442Monese Ltd need to refund the transactions of £45.54, along with 8% interest  from the date 
of the transaction to the date of settlement.  In addition, for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, it should pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7892144