K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that MCE  Insurance Company Limited has refused to pay his claim for the 
theft of a motorbike  and has voided (cancelled) his insurance back  to when  it started.
background
Mr S took out insurance with MCE through a price comparison website. MCE says that on 
his application  he stated that he had a full UK motorcycle licence. MCE wouldnt have 
provided a quote  for cover if Mr S had stated he had anything  other  than a full UK licence.
Mr S unfortunately had his motorbike stolen. On making a claim, MCE found  that Mr S didnt 
have a full UK licence.  It declined his claim and voided his policy back  to the date it started. 
It also retained his premium, stating that hed misrepresented his licence status and that it 
thought that hed done this either deliberately or recklessly.
Mr S has told us that he didnt say when he filled in the webpage that he had a full UK 
licence. He says he said he didnt have a licence.  And that he spoke to an MCE 
representative who said that it would be fine that he didnt  have a licence as he only wanted 
cover for theft. MCE has said that theft cover only was not an option on the price comparison 
website. The options were comprehensive; third party, fire and theft;  and third party  only.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. She didnt think  that MCE 
had acted unreasonably in deciding  that Mr S acted deliberately or recklessly in 
misrepresenting his licence status  in order to obtain cover.
Mr S didnt agree. And the matter has been  passed  to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr S is upset  at being accused of deliberately or recklessly  
misrepresenting his licence status  to MCE. Given the serious allegation involved here,  weve 
carefully checked that MCE  has been  able to show  that Mr S was more  likely than not 
deliberate or reckless  in his actions when  applying for the insurance. 
In my findings below,  Im not saying that I can be 100% sure that Mr S intended to mislead  
MCE or was reckless. But in deciding  this complaint, I must determine what is more likely 
than not to have  happened.  And Ive concluded  that Mr S complaint isnt one that I can 
uphold.
When looking at a complaint involving deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation, I must be 
satisfied that Mr S was asked a clear question; that MCE  has shown that he more  likely than 
not deliberately  or recklessly answered it incorrectly; and that MCE wouldnt have offered 
Mr S insurance if hed answered the question correctly.
MCE has provided us with the data it received from the price comparison website. And this 
shows that in answer to what I consider  to be a clear question,  Mr S ticked the box that he 
had a full UK licence.  MCE  has shown us that Mr S applied for multiple  quotes  at the time, 
Ref: DRN74188122for different levels of cover.  And in each  of these he ticked the box that he had a full UK 
motorcycle licence.
When MCE accepted  Mr S application, it provided him with a statement of fact that set out 
the answers to the questions it had asked.  This showed hed answered that he had a full UK 
licence. MCE asked  Mr S to check if this was correct.  The documents  were available  on 
MCEs website, although Mr S said hed had trouble accessing this. But Im satisfied that the 
documents were  available for him to review and it was his obligation to check them  and let 
MCE know if anything was incorrect.
MCE and the price comparison website have no records of Mr S speaking to any of their 
agents. Although  Mr S says he thinks he did. The quote that Mr S received states that it was 
for insurance  from MCE for full UK licence holders. Below that it says that if you have a 
provisional licence,  it couldnt quote  at the time. It also gave a couple of lists of insurers  who 
were not prepared to quote for those  having  either an EU licence or an international licence. 
MCE are on both those lists. So I think it should have been clear to Mr S that hed received a 
quote available to full UK licence holders only.
Mr S had cover for social, domestic, pleasure  and commuting use. He originally  told us that 
he didnt intend  to use the bike and only wanted  cover for theft. Thats  what he said hed also 
told MCEs representative when  he spoke to them at the time he got the insurance. Mr S has 
since told us that he wanted compulsory  cover by which I understand he means 
comprehensive.
I cant say for certain that Mr S didnt  speak to anyone at either MCE or the price comparison 
website provider. But theres no record of a call being made; and the price comparison 
website has told us it wouldnt  discuss quotes, instead preferring to refer customers to the 
quoting broker or insurer.  So, its my finding  that there isnt enough evidence to prove  that a 
call took place. 
Ive however listened to Mr S first call to MCE after the theft. He said that hed been using 
the bike. It was stolen from an address that wasnt his home.  And Mr S said that hed been 
travelling there to do some work. So, its my finding  that Mr S had been using the bike, even 
though he didnt have a licence allowing  him to do so.
Given my findings above, its also my finding  that Mr S more likely  than not intended to use 
the bike when  he took out the insurance. Hed therefore have needed cover for driving, 
rather than just theft in any event.  And thats  what he took out in his application.
MCE has told us that it wouldnt have provided  cover to Mr S if it had known he didnt have a 
full UK licence. Its provided  confirmation of this from its product manager. The only way that 
Mr S could get cover from MCE was to state on the price comparison website that he had a 
full UK licence. So Im satisfied that MCE wouldnt have offered Mr S cover  if hed correctly  
said that he didnt  have a licence.
So, in conclusion, given  my findings  above,  I dont think that MCE acted unreasonably in 
refusing to pay Mr S claim  and voiding his policy back to the start. Im satisfied that MCE 
has shown that Mr S more likely than not acted deliberately or recklessly when providing his 
licence status.  And so MCE  was entitled  under the relevant law to retain  Mr S premiums.
Ref: DRN74188123my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint and I wont  be requiring MCE 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7418812