K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Rs credit card application form. On this form theres a 
section headed  Payment Protection and Card Registration. 
The first tick in this section is next to a statement that reads Please issue  a Bank of 
Scotland Visa Card to me. This is not for PPI. 
Underneath this there are YES, I want you to arrange Credit Care Insurance to 
protect my repayments and No, I do not require  Credit  Care Insurance options 
for PPI. Mrs R appears to have signed separately next to the Yes option  to agree 
to take PPI. Ive also noted that there is what appears to be another  signature next to 
the No  option  thats been marked out. I cant safely  say who crossed out this 
signature. 
Mrs R has said that she was surprised  that she had PPI, and Ive noted her 
comments on the application form completion.  
But the cost of the PPI premiums would have  appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements when she had an outstanding balance. I think Mrs R would  reasonably 
have questioned why she was paying  for PPI if she hadnt been aware that she had it 
 much sooner  than she did. But the evidence is that PPI remained  on her account  
for some time after she took it out. 
The box that Mrs R has correctly said she didnt  tick and has been left blank does 
relate to insurance  - but not PPI. Its offering protection against  loss or theft.
This sale took place  over 20 years ago and recollections can fade. Ive to decide 
what I think is more likely  than not to have happened  based on the available 
evidence. 
I think that its more likely than not that BOS presented PPI as optional and that    
Mrs R agreed  to take it out.
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Ref: DRN75419502Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said - including  what shes  said about not needing 
PPI because of her circumstances. Mrs R has said that she was in full time employment and 
in good health. But nobody can accurately predict what the future will bring, and having  this 
PPI policy  would help protect Mrs Rs financial position if she did experience an unexpected  
change in circumstances, such as being made unemployed or suffering a change  in her 
health.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs R paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7541950