K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms B says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Ms B took out in 2002. It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Ms B says 
the PPI wasnt mentioned.  
FICL has provided a copy of Ms Bs application form. The form has a separate  section for 
PPI and Ms B has signed in that section to request the policy. Ms B has said she wasnt 
aware of what she was agreeing to due to her dyslexia. Ive thought very carefully about 
what Ms B has said, but on balance  I think that having to sign separately for the policy  would 
have alerted her to the fact that the policy was optional  and not a condition of having  the 
store card. I think its more likely than not that FICL made Ms B aware that she had a choice  
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it, although I understand if she no longer  
remembers doing so.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms B got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such as an unusual 
working pattern  or an existing medical condition. 
Ms B says she didnt  have  any employee  benefits  or any other means to help her make  her 
repayments if she was too unwell to work  or became unemployed. So I think  it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN78313382Ive thought carefully about everything Ms B has said, but for the reasons explained above 
these points dont  change my decision. 
Overall I dont think Ms B has lost out due to anything FICL mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7831338