K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr E. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  Lloyds Bank  sold Mr E the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr E and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
Looking at the application  form, I think Lloyds  Bank made Mr E aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it.
Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Mr E, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. The PPI could have helped  
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mr Es employment  sick pay. And it 
would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving 
Mr E more financially  secure for longer. It would have meant Mr E wouldnt  need to 
fall back on other  resources so soon.  So, overall,  the PPI was potentially useful. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds Bank explained the PPI  there was some  
information about costs on the application form, though not full information. But I 
dont think, in his circumstances, full information about costs  and benefits  would have  
affected whether  he took the PPI. This is because its likely hed still have found it 
useful even with full information. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected  by 
any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mr E.
Ref: DRN74359902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7435990