K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that Everest Limited  mis-sold him a fixed sum loan agreement.  He says he 
was told he could repay the agreement over 15 months and not incur  interest.
Background
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with a finance provider in September 2016  to 
acquire new windows. Everest  acted as the credit broker for the agreement as well as 
supplying the windows.
Mr M says that when he was first contacted by the Everest sales  adviser, the adviser  gained  
his trust and said he would provide a good price. He says he wasnt  happy with the first price  
offered based  on conversation with other suppliers but this was reduced and he agreed. 
Mr M had the money available to pay for the windows outright and says he and his wife 
didnt buy through  credit  agreements. But he says he was persuaded to enter into the loan 
agreement on the basis it would be structured to be repaid  over a reduced period and 
effectively result in a zero interest rate. 
Mr M says that after the windows had been installed he tried to contact the sales adviser as 
he was concerned that the agreement he had received wasnt  set out as he had expected. 
He says he struggled to contact the sales adviser  and so contacted the finance  provider  to 
say he wished to withdraw from the agreement. A day after Mr M had contacted  the finance 
provider he says the sales adviser visited his house and told him how to set up his payments 
in a way that would mean he would repay the agreement over 15 months  and receive the 
loan effectively interest free. Mr M acted on the advice given and set up his repayments. 
Fifteen months later, Mr M says he had expected  his loan to have been  repaid in full but then 
discovered that around £1,500 was still outstanding.  He says he made  the full repayment  but 
this was much larger amount that he would have  needed to pay had he acquired the 
windows in cash as he had initially wanted.  
Everest says that the agreement clearly set out that interest would be charged on the loan 
and that Mr M would have  been aware of this. It says that interest  free loans werent  an 
option at the time Mr M entered into the loan agreement. It says there  was an 8.5% discount 
applied to the cash price if a consumer entered into the loan agreement  but this discount 
didnt apply to the interest.  It said that it did offer an accelerated plan which  would mean 
customers could end up paying an amount equivalent to the cash  price when the discount 
was taken into account.
Everest says that the payments Mr M set up were enough to repay the capital amount only 
over the 15 months  and didnt include the amount required to pay the interest.  It says he 
would have needed to overpay £477,  not £397,  a month.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He was satisfied that Mr M had the money  available  
to pay for the windows  outright but was persuaded to enter into the finance agreement  on 
the understanding that he would repay the agreement over 15 months and not incur  interest  
costs. Based  on this he thought Everest, acting as credit broker, had misrepresented  the 
agreement and recommended that it clear the outstanding balance on Mr Ms loan 
agreement, refund him the interest  he paid through the agreement along  with interest and 
pay Mr M £150 for the distress this issue had caused.
Ref: DRN79700242Everest didnt  accept our investigators view. It said that Mr Ms withdrawal period ended 14 
days after the agreement  was set up and that the agreement would have been set up online 
and then emailed  to Mr M. It said Mr Ms request to withdraw wasnt made until outside  the 
14 day period. It believed Mr M was aware the loan was interest bearing but had thought  he 
could structure  the repayments to make the total amount he paid equivalent to the cash price 
he would  have paid.  It reiterated that he would have needed to make overpayments larger 
than those he set up.
Overall, Everest didnt accept that the agreement  had been misrepresented.  
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which  I came  to the following conclusions.
Mr M had the funds available to pay for the window installation in cash and the sales  
advisor was aware of this.
Mr M was given  the option  of a paying  through a fixed sum loan agreement  and I 
accepted he only agreed to this because he believed he wouldnt  end up paying any 
more by doing this than he would  have done had he paid in cash  up front.
The agreement clearly  set out the interest rate and cost of credit and so Mr M would 
have been reasonably  aware  the agreement was interest bearing. But Mr Ms 
complaint was that he was told by structuring his payments in a certain way he would 
end up paying  an amount  that was equivalent to the cash  price.
Everest confirmed  that agreements could  be structured in a way that meant the total 
amount paid through an accelerated agreement which  includes  the discount  for 
entering into finance could be roughly the same as the amount that would have been  
paid in cash (for which a discount wouldnt be available).
Mr M set up the payments he was told by the sales adviser. So while Everest said 
that Mr M didnt make  large enough overpayments I thought it reasonable that he 
expected the agreement  to have been  repaid after 15 months.
Mr M wasnt provided with the information  he needed to make  an informed decision. I 
thought that had Mr M been provided with the correct information he would have 
chosen to pay for the windows upfront in cash. Therefore I found that the agreement 
was mispresented.
Mr M should  be refunded any payment amounts above the cash cost of the windows. 
The information regarding the cash price wasnt clear but a document  recorded  a 
discount of £889  being applied because Mr M agreed to pay through  the finance 
agreement. Based  on this I calculated the cash price for the windows as £10,150 
plus £889, totalling £11,039. Mr M paid a total of £11,583.38 through the finance  
agreement giving  a difference of £544.38.  I noted  that interest should be added to the 
refund from the date of the final payment to the date of settlement. I found that 
interest was only required  for this period  as Mr M had the benefit of not paying the full 
amount of the funds upfront.
I found that Mr M had been caused distress  and inconvenience because  of this issue 
and that Everest  should  pay him £150  compensation  because of this.
Ref: DRN79700243Mr M responded to my provisional decision. He said that the cash  price used in my decision 
may have  been  the amount Everest arrived at but this was still higher than comparable  
quotes he had at the time and so he wouldnt  have  gone ahead at that price.  He said that 
when he agreed  to the acquisition he believed the maximum amount he would pay was 
£10,150. He said that he set up the payments he was told were required by the adviser and 
that these further  supported his belief  that he would be paying £10,150.
Mr M explained that while upset at paying more than he should have his greater concern 
was the upset caused by the adviser. He reiterated  that the adviser came to his house and 
gained their trust by telling stories of his friendship  with their son who had sadly died. The 
adviser then misled him into a finance  agreement. 
Everest responded to my provisional decision.  It said Mr M entered  into two completely 
separate contracts with two different companies. The first was an agreement  with Everest for 
the supply of windows and doors. No interest  was payable under this agreement,  but a 
discount was given for using finance. The second  contract was a loan agreement with a 
finance provider  under which he borrowed £9,640 over 5 years.  There  were no discounts 
allowed against any part of this loan.
It said that the 8.5% finance discount was one of 5 discounts (all for different amounts) given  
by Everest against the contract for the supply of goods. The price paid net of all discounts  
was £10,150.  It said that in this case the equivalent cash  price would have been £11,093 
however it was unable to provide support of this number and accepted my figure of £11,039.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everest acted as a credit  broker in arranging finance  for Mr M when he wanted  to have new 
windows installed.  It was also the supplier. Mr M is happy with the windows but not how the 
finance was arranged. My decision relates  to Everests  role as credit  broker  for the loan 
agreement.
As I set our in my provisional  decision,  I accept that Mr M only entered into the finance 
agreement as he believed  that by making  the payments  he was told by the adviser he would 
pay for the windows over 15 months and that the total payment would be equivalent to the 
amount he would have paid in cash.
Because Mr M wasnt provided  with the correct information before entering  into the 
agreement I accept it was misrepresented  to him.
When a mistake has been made, our role is not to punish the business  but to ensure the 
consumer is put back in the position  they would  have been in had the mistake  not happened. 
As I have previously set out I find that in this case this means that Mr M should be refunded  
any payment amounts  above the cash cost of the windows.  As the agreement  has been  
settled in full there  are no further actions required in regard to that.
Further information has been provided in response  to my provisional decision. Mr M has 
explained that he understood the maximum amount  he would be paying was £10,150 and I 
can see the payments  he set up this supports this amount. Everest has also confirmed that 
Ref: DRN79700244the cost of the windows after all discounts were applied would have been £10,150. However  
this amount includes the discount for paying through the finance agreement.
While I appreciate Mr Ms comments  that he wouldnt have entered into the agreement had 
he known he would  be paying a higher amount, I have to consider the fairest way to resolve 
this complaint. In this case  Mr M has the windows and so it is fair these are paid for. He 
entered into the agreement which set out its terms and he agreed to these. However  I accept 
that he believed  by structuring his payment in a certain way he wouldnt pay more  through 
the agreement  than had he paid cash. The discount for the finance agreement is set out in a 
document and this gives a cash equivalent cost of £11,039. The price summary which 
contains the £10,150 figure also sets out that a discount has been applied  due to the finance 
and that a higher price would be paid if settled in cash. Therefore I accept that Mr M should 
have been reasonably aware that he was receiving a discount  for entering into the 
agreement that wouldnt be applied if he paid in cash. 
Therefore I find that to uphold this complaint and accept that Mr M should  have only paid the 
amount that would have been due if he had paid in cash that the amount refunded to him 
should be any excess over the cash equivalent price of £11,039. This puts him back in the 
position he would have been had he paid for the windows in cash and while  I have noted his 
comments about the comparable prices I find this is the fairest  resolution  to this complaint. 
I understand that Mr Ms complaint isnt just about the money but the upset that the adviser 
has caused by the way in which  he gained Mr Ms trust. I understand that the compensation I 
have set out of £150 wont  make up for the upset that has been caused  but I find this a fair 
amount given the factors I can take into account. I am sorry for all the distress  this issue has 
caused Mr M and his wife.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Everest Limited  should  refund Mr M an 
amount equal  to the difference between the amount he paid for the windows through the 
finance agreement  and the amount he would have  paid had he acquired the windows in 
cash. I have calculated this as £544.38.  Interest of 8% simple a year should be added to the 
refund from the date of the final payment to the date of settlement.
Everest Limited should also pay Mr M £150  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience he has been caused by the issues he has experienced.
If Everest Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Jane Archer 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7970024