K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Haven Insurance Company Limited dealt with his taxi insurance policy claim 
unfairly. 
background
In October  2017 Mr S taxi was involved in a collision with another vehicle. He called Haven 
to make a claim on his short term third party taxi policy. He says he chose to use his own 
garage for the repairs. But he believed Haven would still be dealing  with his claim. But after 
more than a year he hadnt  heard  anything. When he got in touch  with Haven he was told 
the claim had been closed.   
Mr S says he wasnt told the claim would be closed  and that no further action  would be 
taken. He wants compensation  for the poor service  hes received and the loss of value of his 
car. 
Haven responded to Mr S complaint. It said hed been told the claim would be closed. It said 
it did fail to discuss the level of cover  he had. But it didnt  offer him any compensation. 
Our Investigator  said Mr S had been aware Haven  was closing the claim. And she didnt 
think it did anything wrong by doing so. Mr S didnt accept her findings. So the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Haven  do 
anything differently.
Ive listened to the claim notification call. Mr S was told about an option to use one of 
Havens garages.  But he chose to use his own. Havens adviser told him because  of that, 
the claim would  be closed as a notification  only. Mr S asked for an explanation of that. He 
was told it meant Haven wont be dealing with any repairs  as he will be going through  his 
own garage. He confirms  that he understands. He was also told the claim could be reopened 
if required. 
Haven didnt explain that it wouldnt be trying to recover the cost of repairs from the other 
driver. But it also didnt  say it would be. It said it would be closing the claim. So I cant  say it 
provided misleading information.
Mr S feels  he wasnt given the option of using Haven to recover  costs  from the other driver. 
His policy only insured  damage to third party vehicles   not his own.  Since  his complaint 
Havens assisted him by trying to recover those uninsured losses  from the other driver. But 
Ive looked at his policy terms  and it didnt provide uninsured loss recovery  cover.  Its not 
mentioned in the terms. So I cant  say Haven did anything wrong by not offering that service 
to him in October 2017.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Haven Insurance Company Limited  do 
anything differently.
Ref: DRN70812142Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7081214