K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Johnsons Cars Limited, trading as Johnsons  Volvo,  changed the 
finance agreement  they had originally  agreed  with her.
background
In March 2018 Miss B agreed a deal with Johnsons Volvo to take a new car from them. She 
agreed the basis of a finance agreement but the manufacturers werent able to deliver  the 
car when  requested and delivery  was delayed until October 2018.  At that point Johnsons  
Volvo said the delay  meant theyd have to make a new finance application because the 
previous one would have  lapsed. Miss B was disappointed to find that new agreement had a 
mileage lower mileage limit and higher monthly  payments because the APR was different.
She complained to Johnsons Volvo  and they increased the mileage limit to the 12,000 that 
was originally agreed. They also offered Miss B £250 to compensate her for the 
inconvenience that had been caused.  But they could not change  the APR. Miss B proceeded 
with the new finance arrangement in November 2018 but she was still dissatisfied with the 
business response and she therefore referred  her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator noted that no agreement  had been signed in March  2018 and the delay was 
due to the manufacturer and not Johnsons Volvo. He understood that the delay would have 
required a new finance application to be made and he didnt think  it was unreasonable  that 
agreement was for a different APR. He noted  that the mileage limit had been  rectified  and he 
thought the offer of £250 was reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss B explained that she thought more compensation should be paid and Johnsons Volvo 
didnt respond  to the adjudicators view.  So the complaint has been referred for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view on this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B was acquiring her car under a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.
The relevant  law says that the agreement should  not have been misrepresented. If it was 
and if Miss B would not have entered into the agreement  had the misrepresentation not 
Ref: DRN78266552taken place, then Id think Johnsons Volvo were responsible and Id ask them to take some 
action.
I am not persuaded that this agreement was misrepresented  as the March  2018 agreement  
hadnt been signed by Miss B and, whilst its clear the November agreement  was different, I 
dont think she was misled about the details in it. Indeed Miss B noticed the discrepancies 
and as a result the mileage limit was put right.
And even  if the agreement was misrepresented to Miss B it is clear that she would have  
entered into the new deal anyway so I cant say she experienced a loss that she was 
unaware of. She did not have to proceed with the new agreement.
I can understand that it would have been necessary  to reapply for finance as there  had been 
a significant delay whilst waiting for delivery  of the car.
However, it is clear that Johnsons Volvo  made a mistake when putting the wrong mileage 
limit on the agreement and theyve tried to compensate Miss B for this mistake and the 
inconvenience she experienced by offering  her £250. In the circumstances I think this is a 
fair offer and whilst I understand  Johnsons Volvo  have subsequently retracted the offer I am 
asking them to pay it.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Johnsons  Cars 
Limited to pay Miss B £250 to compensate  her for the error it made and the inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826655