K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the debt Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (SCUK) say he has with 
them and the way in which they have pursued  that debt.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and were  set out in detail in the 
investigators opinion  of 5 May 2020, so I wont repeat them  again  here.  Instead  Ill focus  on 
giving my reasons  for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think SCUK made the account position clear  in March 2011 when they sent a statement of 
account to Mr D. That explained that after the insurance settlement had been received and 
the payment of £534 credited, there was still an outstanding balance  of £916.28. This early 
settlement fee lapsed when payment wasnt received and as a result  the full balance which 
included interest  was due.
Whilst I understand Mr D says SCUK refused to consider a payment plan at that point, 
having reviewed  the information in the file, I can see no evidence  of that request. I think  its 
reasonable to suggest Mr D was aware  of the account balance, but I cant  see that he tried 
to contact SCUK to arrange or discuss payments between 2011  and 2014, the point  at which  
SCUK were able to trace him.
I can see that a letter  from SCUK to Mr D was returned in June 2011, but I cant  see that 
was the case  in March 2011  or in April 2011  when reminders were  sent to him. So, Im 
persuaded it is most likely  Mr D received these reminders and that he was aware of the 
balance due on his account.
I think SCUKs  responsibility was to tell Mr D what the balance on his account was and to be 
sympathetic and reasonable when Mr D told them he was waiting for confirmation  of his 
GAP insurance. They  did that as they were prepared to delay  payment  until about April 
2011. But, I dont  think its reasonable to suggest they needed  to wait any longer.
Whilst there were delays with SCUK  pursuing the debt I think they were reasonable when 
not applying interest  or charges to the outstanding  debt during the period of the delay 
Ref: DRN75938142between 2011  and 2013 and I note they were  also fair when not applying any interest up to 
the point they sold the debt in 2017.
I understand that Mr D made offers to settle  the account, but I dont think SCUK had to 
accept these offers. The original early settlement fee had by then lapsed.
Overall, I am persuaded that SCUK have been  fair and reasonable in their handling of 
Mr Ds debt and I dont  think they therefore need to take any additional  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7593814