K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
24 December 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I didnt  intend to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.   
responses to my provisional  decision
Uncle Buck  said it had nothing further  to add. Mr H didnt respond  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr H nor Uncle Buck has provided me with anything further on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that Uncle Buck  was wrong  to give 
any of the loans to Mr H. I dont uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72801442extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle  Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr H took out eight loans with Uncle  Buck  between June  2014 and August 2015.  The amount of the 
loans varied between £300 and £650. Loans one to seven were  repayable  in one repayment. Loan 
eight was repayable in three  instalments. Mr H repaid all the loans. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing 
from Uncle Buck  is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
130 June 2014 300 31 July 2014
231 July 2014 600 28 August 2014
329 August 2014 650 25 September 2014
425 September 2014 600 30 October 2014
53 December 2014 600 23 December 2014
624 December 2014 600 29 January 2015
78 April 2015 500 30 April 2015
83 August 2015 500 27 August 2015
Mr H says that he couldnt afford to repay these loans. He says that he was subject to an
informal debt management  solution at the relevant time. Mr H says that the loans made his position 
worse. He wants a refund  of all interest and charges, with interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Hs complaint. He said initially that by loan four, Mr H was 
struggling to repay the loans and by loan seven, the pattern of lending, in itself, showed  that Mr H 
couldnt repay  the loans in a sustainable way. He set out what he thought
Uncle Buck should do to put matters right.
Uncle Buck didnt agree  with the adjudicator but offered to refund interest and charges on
loan four. It said, in summary:
Mr H could afford to repay the loans.
Mr H wasnt struggling to repay the loans  by loan four.
There were gaps  in borrowing between loans six and seven  and loans  seven and eight.
Loans  four to eight werent as close together as loans one to three.
It relied on the information Mr H provided.
Mr H didnt accept Uncle Bucks offer. The adjudicator considered the matter again  and said that he 
still thought that Uncle  Buck shouldnt  have given  Mr H loans four to eight as by loan four, Mr H was 
showing signs  that he was struggling to repay the loans and needed to borrow again  as soon as hed 
repaid the previous one. What he asked Uncle Buck to do to put matters  right was slightly  different,  in 
that he didnt  ask it to remove all information about loans seven and eight from Mr Hs credit file.
Ref: DRN72801443Uncle Buck didnt agree  with the adjudicator and asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint, so it was passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck was required to establish whether  Mr H could sustainably repay his loans   not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of course, the 
loan payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer  could sustainably 
make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow this is the case. This is because  the 
Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer  should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows 
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont be able 
to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Ive noted what Uncle Buck  says about gaps  in Mr Hs lending. I dont think that gaps are such 
that they broke  the chain  of lending. So, Im looking at one chain of lending here.
Ref: DRN72801444I dont think that Uncle Buck was required to do more than it did before  loans one, two and three. 
Given the repayment  amounts, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve  been proportionate for Uncle  Buck to ask 
Mr H for the amount of information needed  to show the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt 
anything in the information  Mr H provided  or the information Uncle Buck shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr H said about his finances.
For loan four in September 2014, I think Uncle  Buck  shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed 
picture of Mr Hs financial situation. Thats because, by then, Mr H had taken  loans in quick 
succession and had been borrowing every month since June 2014. But I havent seen anything  in 
the information provided  which  suggests  the lender wouldve known that Mr H wouldnt have been 
able to make the repayments for that loan or subsequent loans in a sustainable way. Also,  I havent 
seen anything  to show that Mr H was struggling to repay the loans.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so should  have realised  that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans.
Whilst Ive said that theres one chain  of lending here,  Ive taken into account  the gaps in lending 
between loans six and seven and loans seven and eight in looking at the overall pattern of 
lending. I think that the gaps mean that that there wasnt a point at which the pattern of lending, in 
itself, should have  led Uncle Buck to conclude that further borrowing was unsustainable.
Considering everything, whilst Uncle Buck should have done more  before loan four onwards, based 
on what Ive seen,  I dont think  I can safely conclude that it shouldnt  have given  Mr H the loans. So, I 
dont propose  to uphold his complaint.
my provisional  decision
Im sorry to disappoint  Mr H but for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont propose to uphold  his 
complaint.
Ref: DRN7280144