K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained about the level of compensation awarded by Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) after it admitted mis-selling her an income protection 
insurance policy.
background
In 2002, while in the process of obtaining a mortgage, Mrs C and her husband  (Mr C) met 
with an adviser from L&G and both agreed to take out an income protection  insurance policy  
which started the following year. The policy, in each case, would pay a regular benefit  in the 
event that the policyholder was unable to work  due to illness  or injury.  In Mrs Cs case,  the 
policy was set up to pay benefit of £400  a month after a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs C complained that their policies had been mis-sold.  They  said they 
hadnt wanted or needed the policies but were  told they must  have them  to obtain  their 
mortgage. Mr C said he had wanted instead  a policy which provided life cover.
L&G initially  didnt uphold the complaints. It was satisfied that the nature of the cover had 
been adequately explained at the time of sale and there was no indication that it was 
compulsory.
Mr and Mrs C then provided  evidence to show that, at the time of sale,  Mrs C was entitled  to 
five months full sickness pay followed by five months half pay from her employer. In light of 
this, L&G conceded  that the 26 week deferred  period was inappropriate and that it should  
have been set at 52 weeks. It recalculated the premium  which  would have been payable  for 
a policy  set up on these  terms and offered to refund Mrs C the difference (£989), plus 
interest.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this offer. Mr C provided  evidence to that at the time of sale he 
was in receipt of a pension which would have affected his entitlement  to receive benefit 
under the policy.
SoL conceded, in light of this evidence, that the policy had been  unsuitable  for Mr C. It 
offered to refund all of his premiums,  plus interest. However, it maintained  its original offer of 
compensation in respect of Mrs Cs policy as it considered that, except for the length of the 
deferred period,  the policy had been suitable for her.
Mrs C was unhappy at SoLs position. She said that rather  than take out a policy with a 52 
week deferred period,  she would have  taken out no policy at all. She said that she and Mr C 
had sufficient arrangements  in place to cover the mortgage payments in the event  of long-
term incapacity and she therefore hadnt needed the policy.  She said that she had instead 
been seeking an investment policy with life cover. She thought  she should receive a full 
refund of her premiums as had been  awarded to her husband.  She referred her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He considered 
there was no evidence that Mrs C had been  misled about the nature of the policy. He was 
satisfied that it was suitable  except  for the deferred  period.  He considered  that L&Gs offer of 
a partial refund was fair. However, he considered that L&G had provided Mrs C with a poor 
service, particularly by treating her complaint in combination with her husbands rather than 
Ref: DRN71983152dealing with it separately in its own right. He recommended it should  pay her £100 
compensation for any trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings.  She reiterated that she and her husband had 
adequate means  of meeting their mortgage payments in the event of her suffering long-term  
sickness. She said if the adviser had carried out a full and honest financial appraisal  at the 
time, this would have  been evident. She maintained that if, having done such  an appraisal,  
the adviser had nonetheless recommended a policy with a 12 month deferred period, she 
would not have agreed to take this out.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence from the time of sale is very limited but I dont consider this surprising 
considering the time which has elapsed. However,  L&G has been able to provide a form 
which the adviser competed when he met with Mr and Mrs C. Im satisfied from this that the 
adviser collected certain relevant information from Mrs C and that a discussion took place 
about the policy.
I would normally consider an income  protection insurance policy to be a suitable 
recommendation when someone is taking out a mortgage. Mrs C says that she had no need 
for such a policy because she and her husband  had adequate means  of meeting their 
mortgage payments  in the event that either  one of them was ill. However, she hasnt 
reasonably shown that she had no need  for the policy. I recognise that Mr C has since 
shown that he was receiving a pension payment but I havent seen any evidence to suggest  
that this would have been sufficient to meet all their financial commitments.
L&G says that when the policy started,  Mrs C would  have been sent a copy of the policy 
document and details  of her right to cancel. I think it likely that this would have been the 
case. Although,  as I have noted, the evidence is very limited, I have seen nothing  to support 
that she was told the policy was compulsory.  Nor have I seen anything to explain why she 
might have thought  the policy was something  other  than income protection.  
Mrs C says that she had been  with her employer for four or five years  at the time she met 
with the adviser,  and that this would  have entitled her to five months full sickness  pay 
followed by five months half pay. I havent seen evidence to support that she had been with 
her employer for this length of time  and it conflicts with the information  recorded by the 
adviser  but L&G nonetheless accepted this and retrospectively adjusted her policy to allow 
for a 52 week deferred period. I think this was reasonable. The fact that the adviser  had 
apparently misunderstood Mrs Cs sickness benefit from her employer didnt mean the type 
of policy  was entirely unsuitable for her; it just meant the deferred  period should have been 
different.
I consider that, except  for the length of the deferred period, the advisers recommendation 
was appropriate.  And given  that Mrs C was prepared to accept his recommendation for the 
policy with a 26 week deferred period, I see no reason why she would not similarly have 
accepted his recommendation for the same  policy  but with a longer deferred  period, 
Ref: DRN71983153particularly as this would  have been  cheaper. In view of this, Im satisfied that L&Gs  action 
of retrospectively  amending  the deferred period  and refunding an appropriate proportion  of 
Mrs Cs premium, plus interest, was fair. 
I recognise that Mrs C doesnt agree with this outcome. However,  while L&G has accepted 
that the adviser failed to take into account how Mr Cs entitlement  to benefit might be 
affected by his pension and has thus agreed to refund all his premiums, I dont consider that 
this necessarily means Mrs C is entitled to the same redress.  I dont consider that any failing 
of the adviser  in respect of that matter means that he was necessarily reckless in his 
dealings with Mrs C or that an income  protection insurance policy was of no use to her.
However, I do agree that L&G provided a poor service, particularly by trying  to deal with 
Mrs Cs complaint in combination with that of her husband. I agree with the investigator  that 
it should pay £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused  to her by this 
poor service.
   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Legal  and General Assurance  Society Limited to pay Mrs C £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7198315