K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Shoosmiths LLP have been  chasing him for a debt he doesnt believe 
he owes. 
background
Mr C took out a personal loan from Lender A in 2005. Mr C says hed taken  out loans with 
Lender A prior to this too. The 2005 loan fell into arrears and Lender A started its recovery  
and collections process. A County  Court Judgement was awarded against Mr C in 2009  for 
the outstanding balance  of around £18,000.  
Lender A appointed Shoosmiths to collect the debt on its behalf. Mr C raised  a complaint 
about the PPI that was added to his loan. Lender  A upheld that complaint and reduced his 
outstanding balance by around £5,000  (leaving  around £13,000 left to pay). 
Mr C raised a further complaint in 2015 with Lender A. He said he wasnt given a cooling off 
period with any of the loans and Lender A had failed to provide him with copies of the loan 
agreements from 2003/2004. Lender A didnt  uphold that complaint so Mr C asked our 
service to investigate.  An ombudsman decided  that we couldnt investigate  that complaint 
because Mr C had brought it too late.  
Whilst these two complaints were  ongoing,  Shoosmiths had ceased collections activity. At 
the end of 2018 Mr C says Shoosmiths  contacted him asking him to repay  the outstanding 
balance. He complained saying the debt was statute  barred as hed not heard anything  
about the debt for over six years. Shoosmiths said it restarted  collections activity in 2016  
when his previous  complaints had been  closed. It didnt think  the debt was statute barred. 
Mr C then referred the complaint to our service. He said he was also unhappy with the 
issues he raised in the 2015 complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He explained  that the complaint 
points he raised in 2015 have previously been considered  by an ombudsman  at the service, 
so we couldnt consider those issues again. He said he didnt think  Shoosmiths had done 
anything wrong  in the way it had dealt with Mr C whilst trying to collect the outstanding  debt. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. In summary  he said:
Nobody had addressed the issue that Shoosmiths and Lender A havent  responded 
to his request  in 2009 asking for copies of his loan agreements. 
No information  has ever been provided about the previous loans. 
This debt isnt owed  as the outstanding balance is in dispute.  
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An ombudsman at this service has previously decided that Mr C brought his complaint about 
the cooling off period  and his request for copies of the earlier  (pre-2005) loan agreements  
too late. Although that decision was against  Lender  A, it is responsible  for the actions of its 
appointed collections  agent (in this case, Shoosmiths). And Mr Cs complaint at the time 
Ref: DRN77258392concerned the overall handling of his debt by Lender A and Shoosmiths (on Lender As 
behalf). This means it wouldnt be appropriate  for me to now consider those same issues 
again in this decision. 
Ive also considered that a court has already  decided that Mr C does  owe this debt. So it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider any issues that are directly  linked  to that  such 
as whether there was a cooling off period and whether  the debt is enforceable. 
Mr C initially said that Shoosmiths  couldnt collect the debt because  it was statute barred. 
However, only a court  can decide if a debt is statute barred. My role is to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable taking  into account  all the circumstances,  which includes any relevant law 
and good industry  practice. As a court has decided Mr C does owe this debt, I dont think 
Shoosmiths has acted  unfairly in asking Mr C to repay it. 
I can see that Shoosmiths did suspend all collections activity  whilst  Mr C raised his 
complaints against  Lender A. I think this was a fair step to take as there  was a possibility the 
outcome of those complaints might  affect  the outstanding balance.  And in one of the 
complaints, it did. Once the complaints had been  closed Shoosmiths restarted its collections 
activity. I dont think that was unreasonable as there  was still a balance  left to pay. 
Shoosmiths sent Mr C a list of all the contact its attempted to have with him since 2016. It 
says it sent letters,  text messages and attempted phone calls. Ive seen  a copy of some of 
the letters it sent. From what  Ive seen I dont think the content or frequency  of its contact 
was inappropriate.
It appears Mr C didnt  keep Shoosmiths (or Lender A) updated with his current  address, so 
most of the letters Shoosmiths sent werent  received. Shoosmiths had to carry out tracing 
activity to locate his last known  address. As it was Mr Cs responsibility to keep Shoosmiths 
(and Lender  A) updated with his current details, I dont think Shoosmiths  has done anything  
wrong in trying to trace him. 
Mr C has told us about his mental  health.  While  I appreciate his concerns about this 
outstanding debt and how its affecting  him, Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that it 
would be fair and reasonable to say Shoosmiths  should stop its collections  activity. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7725839