K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr R says Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Nationwide  made it clear that Mr R didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this. I say this because Ive 
been given a copy of the credit card application  form that was completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to accept or decline to 
take out the cover. On Mr Rs form I can see that the yes box to accept the PPI has been 
ticked and Mr R has signed the form which  suggests  he agreed with everything that was 
entered. 
Mr R has said that the form wasnt fully completed by him and someone in the branch 
completed some of the fields. He doesnt think that he ticked  the box to agree to the cover.  
Ive thought about what he has said but there isnt enough evidence for me to say who ticked  
the box and when this took place. Mr R was making  an application for additional credit and 
so I would have  expected  him to have  read through the form before signing. And if he didnt 
want the PPI or hadnt agreed  to take it out and then saw that the yes box had been  ticked,  
I think he would have  questioned this at the time. And if the whole section had been left 
blank when he was given it to sign, I think he would have ticked the no box.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely that Nationwide  made 
it clear the policy  was optional and that Mr R agreed to take it out, knowing he could refuse it 
if he didnt want it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Ref: DRN75022522Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including  what he has said about  not needing 
the policy as he was in secure  employment and would receive  sick pay. But this policy would  
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay he would receive. And whilst I appreciate  his 
comments about the job role he had and why he thinks this means he wouldnt need to claim 
for unemployment, he doesnt  appear to have  been  exempt or protected, contractually, from 
redundancy. Which  means it would still be possible for him to lose his job. So when taking 
these points into consideration,  they dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr R any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr R any extra interest  
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back to Mr R the difference  
between what Mr R owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Nationwide should also pay Mr R 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7502252