K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint arises from Ageas  Insurance  Limiteds handling of claims under 
their landlord  insurance policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their policy with Ageas in September 2015, for the legal 
costs of obtaining possession of the property and of recovering rent and money  for 
dilapidations. 
I understand they had already served  a notice to quit the property but Ageass solicitors said 
this wasn't served  correctly and was therefore  invalid.  A further notice was served  at the end 
of November 2015 and was due to expire at the end of January 2016. 
In early December 2015, Mr and Mrs S asked to use their own solicitor for any proceedings, 
which was agreed.  Their  solicitors confirmed there were good prospects of succeeding  in 
obtaining possession  and agreed  terms of appointment with Ageas. In February 2016, the 
solicitors confirmed that repossession proceedings had been  issued and an order was 
obtained that the tenant should vacate  the property by end March 2016. 
Mr and Mrs Ss own solicitor was also appointed to act in the separate  rent and dilapidations 
claim. The solicitors issued proceedings and the tenant filed a counter-claim. A hearing was 
listed for early May 2017 but I understand this was then put back to September 2017. The 
tenant made an offer to settle the case in early April 2017.
Ageas took some  time to respond to the solicitors about the reasonableness  of the 
settlement offer.  Ageas  finally  agreed  that the tenants offer should be declined  but thought  
the counter-offer the solicitors were  proposing was too high. Ageas also queried the 
inventory and costs  that were being  claimed.  Mr and Mrs S say Ageas wouldnt let their 
solicitor negotiate  a settlement and caused  unnecessary delay. 
The case  went to hearing and Mr and Mrs S were  successful.  They  obtained an order  which  
provided that the tenant pay the rent owed and that the tenant should  pay £980 to cover 
their fixed  legal costs fees (£880)  and attendance  expenses fees (£100). 
The solicitors sent their final invoice and it was agreed that the contribution towards the legal 
costs that the tenant had been ordered  to pay should go to the solicitors.  However,  Mr and 
Mrs S wanted to deduct costs for their attendance at court, as provided for under the policy. 
Ageas agreed  to pay £65 for Mrs Ss loss of earnings following the court  attendance  but said 
there was not enough evidence that Mr S had lost more than the £100 the court  had 
awarded him. 
. 
Mr and Mrs S are very unhappy with the handling  of their claim and have made a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised  below: 
The policy covers them for their attendance at court. Their legal representative 
confirmed their attendance at court  but Ageas refused to meet  this claim on the basis  
Ref: DRN75792212that they took paid annual leave. When they complained about  this, Ageas agreed 
the claim would  be met in principle but kept asking for more and more  evidence of 
this. Mr and Mrs S say they have  provided copies of their employment  contracts  and 
relevant payslips but the claim has still not been met. When Ageas finally  accepted 
that even though they had taken a days paid annual leave to attend the hearing, this 
was a loss. But they want reimbursement in line with a full days pay, which is £200 
less the £100 already awarded  by the judge. So Ageas should pay Mr S £100  for his 
loss of having to attend the hearing.  
They agree  with the amount of £65 for Mrs S, as that was her actual loss (so they are  
not claiming £100 for her attendance).
Ageas  wrongfully refused the claim in September  2015, on the basis that the Section 
21 Notice was invalid  and Section  8 needed  to be served, despite the fact that a 
Section 8 was served too.
Their own solicitors  confirmed that both the notices were  valid.  
They said the tenant was not traceable  but the tenant was still occupying  the property 
in breach of the eviction order. 
Ageas  wouldn't allow them to start the negotiations to settle the matter with the 
tenant, despite repeated attempts by the solicitor.  The tenant's  solicitors  were keen 
to settle. Had Ageas  given the go-ahead for negotiations they might  have agreed a 
settlement much  earlier and for a higher figure. 
Later on, their solicitors stopped representing  them and the tenants were even more  
likely to negotiate, but Ageas wouldnt let them. 
This not only delayed  recovery  and eventual  repair of the house,  but also increased 
the costs that were  deductible from the settlement (due to court  fees, legal costs 
etc.).
They had to make  several phones calls and send several emails between  September 
2015 and April 2016 to get Ageas to confirm cover. 
Ageass Legal  Advice helpline confirmed on more than one occasion that both the 
Section 21 and Section 8 Notices that were served were  valid, and so did their own 
Solicitor, but Ageas still refused  to accept  the first claim in September 2015, thereby 
delaying the whole thing by months.
After accepting the claim in November,  Ageas  promised by email to assess the claim 
quickly but it still took another two weeks, despite them phoning and emailing 
numerous times to chase  up the claim. 
Then after Ageas took so long to assign the case to one of its solicitors,  he was on 
leave and wouldn't answer their calls or emails.  
When they finally got through to another person, he tried to charge £90 to draft a new 
Section 21 Notice. Then  he tried to charge for the telephone call.
After complaining, a supervisor finally  called  and said that it shouldn't  have happened  
but in the entire  two months  since the claim started, theyd not been  able to contact 
the appointed panel solicitor at all. Eventually, they had to search  for a solicitor of 
their own.
Although Ageas  agreed that their solicitors could  act, it still obstructed and delayed 
matters until end January 2016.
They lost three  months  in the process and the rent for that period, in addition to the 
stress involved  in having to try and contact Ageas and the panel  solicitors throughout 
that period.
In short,  Mr and Mrs S say that the entire  claim  was frustrated by Ageas and they had to 
fight more with Ageas than they did with the tenant against whom  they wanted  to take legal 
Ref: DRN75792213action. They have asked  for their attendance  claim to be met and compensation for the 
stress caused to them by Ageass delays.  
Ageas says: 
Its solicitor  assessed the claim but had a different  opinion  on the matter than Mr and 
Mrs Ss own solicitor.  In any case,  the claim was accepted.
Mr S had provided an employment  contract  from 2015  but no evidence of his pay at 
the time of the attendance at court (which was in late 2017).
Mr S had recovered £100 from the defendant for his time attending court  and so 
there is not cover for any further payment  under the policy.
It has paid their solicitors legal costs (less the amount  that was recovered  for costs 
from the defendant).
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld.  Mr 
and Mrs S dont accept the investigators  assessment,  so the matter has been  referred  to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
handling of the claim
Ageass solicitors thought that the notice to quit that Mr and Mrs S had served wasnt valid. 
Mr and Mrs S say that the legal helpline told them they were  valid and so they were 
contradicting themselves.  
Theres no independent evidence that Ive seen that this is the case but even if I accept that 
other lawyers thought  the notices were  valid and had been validly served  on the tenant, I am 
not persuaded that this means Ageas acted unreasonably. While I can understand the 
frustration that any conflicting  advice might  have caused, I can only assess  if Ageas acted 
fairly and reasonably in handling the insurance claim. As insurers  it is entitled to rely on the 
advice of its solicitors. The solicitors are also independent professionals  and therefore Ageas 
is not responsible  for anything done or not done  by the solicitors.  
I have seen nothing  to persuade me that Ageas should have known that the advice that its 
solicitors gave about the notices was flawed (if indeed  it was). I am not persuaded therefore 
that Ageas is responsible for any additional loss of rent, as a result of serving  the notices in 
November 2015  and not relying on the ones  served  in September  2015. 
Theres also no evidence as far as Im aware  that the rent and dilapidations proceedings 
should have been pursued  at the same time.  
A valid notice was served and Ageas agreed to Mr and Mrs Ss own solicitors acting on their 
behalf and pursuing the possession proceedings, with possession granted in March  2016. 
Ive seen no evidence  that Ageas caused  any avoidable delay  in the progression of this 
claim, or that it was wrong to have relied on its solicitors advice about the notice to quit. 
In respect of the second claim, for rent and dilapidations, I understand there was some  delay  
in this claim proceeding, and I can see that Mr and Mrs S made  a number of telephone calls 
Ref: DRN75792214and sent numerous emails,  but there is no convincing  evidence that the time taken to 
conclude this case was solely  due to any delay or error on the part of Ageas. Further 
evidence was required to substantiate the claim that was being made, which  was not 
unreasonable. 
 
There was some delay in responding about  the offer that had been received. This should 
have been dealt with sooner. Mr and Mrs S say this meant they could not negotiate  and this 
meant the matter took longer to conclude and they incurred more costs  than was necessary. 
However, I note the offer from the tenant was £500,  there solicitor  advised a counter-offer  of 
£8,500 and the court awarded around  £7,300. Given how low the offer from the tenant was 
compared to what the court awarded,  it doesnt seem likely that Mr and Mrs S could have 
settled for any amount  that would have  been  acceptable to them.  And theres no legal 
opinion or other convincing evidence that would support their assertion about  this. In the 
meantime, the case  was listed for hearing;  and their legal  costs have been paid. I am not 
therefore persuaded that any compensation is warranted. 
Attendance allowance 
The policy provides: 
Section 3 - Attendance Expenses
The actual loss of salary or wages by the Insured  or any of the Insureds directors, partners 
or employees or the Insureds letting managing agent, for up to £100 per person per day to a 
maximum of £1,000 for Any One Claim, for the time off work to attend  any court or tribunal 
hearing as a:
a) witness for the Insured  at the request of the Appointed Representative; or
b) defendant  in legal  proceedings for which the Insurer has accepted the Claim
provided in either case that such salary or wages are not recoverable from the relevant court  
or tribunal.
Ageas asked for evidence to show that Mr and Mrs S hadnt  been paid for the day that the 
hearing took place.  Mr and Mrs S argued  that while they had been  paid,  hed had to take the 
day out of their annual  leave  allowance and so had still suffered a loss. They  did provide 
relevant wage slips for Mrs S which apparently showed  the loss of one days  pay. 
Ageas therefore  agreed to pay £65 for Mrs S, which is her daily pay rate but said nothing 
was owed for Mr S as he had recovered  £100  from the defendant for his attendance at the 
hearing. 
Mr S says his daily pay is twice this and there  is still £100 cover  under the policy, and so he 
should receive that. However, the evidence of his pay is apparently  from 2015  and while  
they provided payslips for Mrs S for the time of the court hearing, as far as Im aware  no 
payslips were provided for Mr S. So while I agree in principle, that if his actual loss is more  
than the £100 awarded  by the court,  the policy benefit should  apply,  there is not enough 
evidence for me to make Ageas pay that benefit at this time. If Mr S is able to provide 
payslips for the relevant time, then Ageas should  consider  those. 
Ref: DRN75792215my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7579221