K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs B payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in July 
1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Mrs B and her representatives. However, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
Mrs B has said she was not aware that PPI was being sold with the loan.  However this 
did happen over 20 years ago, and it wouldnt  be surprising if someone didnt remember 
all the details of what happened that long ago. And I think Bank  of Scotland  probably did 
make Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional, but that she still chose to take it. It is 
referred to on the loan agreement that Mrs B signed, with a cross in the box saying she 
wished to take PPI, and with details of the premium costs prominent  and close  to where 
Mrs B signed. I have also seen a copy of Mrs Bs application  form saying she wanted to 
take PPI.
Mrs Bs representatives have also said Mrs B felt pressurised into taking the PPI. This 
doesnt quite fit with Mrs B saying  she didnt know the PPI had been added. But, even  
so, it would be difficult to decide if this kind of unfairness happened  so long ago, unless I 
had stronger supporting evidence. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs B, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a secured loan can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have  paid benefits  
at the same time as any employer sick pay was received,  and potentially  for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when she would  need  to fall back on any other  resources she may 
have had. (Mrs B has said she had a life insurance policy   but this wouldnt have helped 
in the same way as PPI, as it would have  only paid out on her death.) This all would 
have put Mrs B in a more secure  position,  if she eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. So I think the PPI would  have  been  potentially useful.
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mrs B would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Ref: DRN70996852Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mrs B would  have been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7099685