K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the quality  of a new floor installed by National House-
Building Council  (NHBC)  under their building warranty.
background
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the quality of installation of their flooring in their new build 
property. They complained about  to NHBC under the warranty. NHBC agreed under its 
resolution service that the installation didnt comply  with its technical requirements  and 
required the builder  to relay the floor. The builder failed to do this by the deadline of 
September 2016 so NHBC agreed  to take over the relaying of the floor. This was carried  out 
by its contractor in April 2018.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the quality of the floor and said it didnt match the sample 
they had been given.  In particular it was covered in knots and parts of it were  heavily filled. 
There were no knots or filler on the sample. NHBC arranged  for its contractor to inspect the 
floor along  with a representative of the manufacturer.  It said the flooring was a natural 
product and pointed out that the sample  had a label explaining this and that there may be 
variations in grain, colour and other distinguishing features.  The flooring had been installed 
correctly but Mr and Mrs G didnt like the finish. NHBC pointed  out that the flooring had been 
available to look at in the manufacturers showroom.
Mr and Mrs G remained  dissatisfied, pointing out that they hadnt been  given  the name of the 
manufacturer and that they had complained  to the contractors at the time.  
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs original floor was an oak/laminate  floor.  The flooring chosen to replace it was 
an engineered  oiled  T & G (tongue and groove)  oak board. It looked  quite  different  from the 
original laminated oak floor. It has a high percentage of knots and some filling. But the 
installation has been inspected and is satisfactory.
Mr G points out that the sample he was shown  doesnt have any knots or filler in it. So he 
expected it to look like the sample. It had on it a sticker saying 'This sample is indicative of 
general quality.  Being  a natural product, larger pieces may show  variation in colour, grain & 
other distinguishing features . And having  considered online the manufacturers details of 
this product, it is expected to have a large  amount of knots, and the filling is a part of the 
product.
I think essentially this was a mismatch of expectations. Mr and Mrs G expected the new floor 
to look like the old one but chose a different product.  The look and finish  of the final product 
wasnt what they expected. They say they werent told the manufacturers name so couldnt  
inspect the floor in the showroom. But it is difficult to say that NHBCs contractors should  
have warned them what the floor would look like. People have different expectations. As a 
natural product it would  have a more  rustic  appearance  the knots would be a part of that. 
And as they were  choosing a different floor to what they had had, they didnt have to accept  
Ref: DRN71320372the sample floor given  to them. From the photos  I have seen it appears to be a similar  colour 
and grain to the sample but with the knots. It appears to have  been  installed properly.
Mr and Mrs G say they raised it with the contractors at the time who recognised  the problem 
and offered to pay 50% of the cost of a replacement. Regrettably I cant  see any evidence on 
the contractors  part that this was what was agreed.
Under the terms of the warranty, where the builder has failed to put right any defect or 
damage to the home, NHBC can, using its resolution service require the builder to put it 
right. Here  it was set out in the report that the oak laminate flooring to all rooms should be 
replaced. The builder  failed to do that so NHBC took over. Its obligation then is to pay the 
cost of any work contained in a Resolution Service report which is accepted by the 
consumer and which the builder does not complete or arrange to complete  within  the time 
set.
NHBC has complied  with its obligations  under the warranty- the flooring is an acceptable 
replacement for what was there before, if anything it is higher grade. I accept that Mr and 
Mrs G are unhappy  with its appearance but I dont think its reasonable to expect NHBC to 
replace it.
So I dont  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7132037