K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained about RAC Financial Services Ltd. He isnt happy that it auto-renewed 
his breakdown policy when he told it not to.
background 
Mr R had a few difficulties  with the RAC after his car had broken  down.  Although these 
difficulties dont form part of this complaint, they led to Mr R asking the RAC not to renew his 
policy.
Unfortunately, the RAC failed to follow his instructions and renewed his policy. This led to a 
drawn-out complaint  culminating in a complaint to this service. The RAC offered Mr R £35 
compensation initially in acknowledgement of delays  hed faced  in trying to make  contact.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Rs complaint. While the matter was with this service the RAC 
also acknowledged that it shouldnt have renewed Mr Rs policy. It said it would refund the 
policy premium (plus  interest)  and pay Mr R £150 compensation which our case  handler  
thought was fair.
Mr R didnt agree with the way the investigator had considered his complaint and the level of 
compensation offered. This was because he had spent a considerable amount of time 
advancing this complaint  and felt that the investigator had sided with the business. As Mr R 
didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that Mr Rs 
complaint should  be upheld.  
It is clear the RAC have  handled Mr Rs policy and renewal poorly. As this is accepted by 
both sides, I dont propose to go over the detail of the complaint  but intend  to focus on what 
the RAC  needs  to do to put things right. I know Mr R feels  that we should  go over every  
detail and failing here, but as it is accepted by all that the RAC got things wrong I dont think 
that is necessary.
It is clear there has been a problem related to the email  details  the RAC held for Mr R. This 
has meant it has communicated with an incorrect email address. I agree with Mr R that he 
has made it more than clear that this was the case. And he has communicated in writing  with 
them as the email communication clearly failed.  Again, I agree with Mr R that it would  have 
made sense  to write out to him as opposed  to continue to use an incorrect  email  address 
that most  likely bounced back. Plus, Mr R made it abundantly clear that he didnt want  to 
renew his policy  and so the RAC  shouldnt  have renewed.
The RAC has accepted all of this and, eventually, refunded his premiums plus interest. But I 
would have expected it to do this earlier and I understand that it has compounded this error 
by taking this years premium as well. I can see that it has added 8% simple interest to the 
refund which  is appropriate.  However, if Mr R has paid a higher  rate of interest on his credit 
card, I agree  that he should be paid a higher level of interest. Ill simply leave  this to Mr R to 
advance with the RAC and provide the relevant evidence.
Ref: DRN70238232Turning to the level of compensation the RAC  initially offered £35 for the delays Mr R faced 
in trying to make contact.  But it didnt  really communicate what this was for to Mr R which  
meant he simply returned the cheque  again this seems to have been caused  by the 
problems with email. 
While the matter was being considered by this service  the RAC  increased its offer of 
compensation. It accepted that it shouldnt  have renewed Mr Rs policy and offered to refund 
the premium, plus interest,  and to award £150  compensation. Our investigator suggested 
this was fair in the circumstances and this has offended Mr R. 
I must point out that are awards are generally modest. And although  Mr R has spent a lot of 
time on this, I dont think the kind of awards that I would ordinarily make in situations like this 
will feel fair to Mr R. But the £150 award  is along the lines that I would make although I am 
proposing lifting  this to £200. This is because  I think the RAC should have ensured  that the 
premium was refunded  earlier. I say this as it agreed that Mr R didnt want  the policy  and yet 
he has been left without the money owed. I understand Mr R returned  the £35 cheque  as he 
didnt understand  what  it was for so the RAC should  resend this as well. 
Ultimately, I can understand Mr Rs complete frustration with how the RAC has dealt with his 
renewal. He was abundantly clear that he didnt want the policy  and yet it renewed  the policy 
anyway. I dont think the general levels  of compensation that this service  generally awards  in 
these circumstances  will ease Mr Rs stress  or cover the time he has spent dealing with this. 
But I hope this will allow him to draw a line under things.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I require RAC  
Financial Services Ltd to ensure that it has refunded all of Mr Rs premiums and paid him the 
appropriate level of interest. And pay him £235 (total) compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7023823