K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank gave  her 
incorrect information about a chargeback. As a result shes been denied the opportunity of 
raising a chargeback and shes spent a lot of time sorting matters out.
To settle  matters  shed  like compensation.
background
Miss S ordered a takeaway  costing £70.65. When she got home she realised a lot of items -
valued at £64.70   were missing. She says she went back  to the restaurant where a 
member of staff marked the missing items on her receipt with an X and wrote on the back  
to confirm that the items marked X were missing  and that the owner would refund the 
amount of the missing items.
The restaurant didnt  refund her. So a few days later she contacted Tesco  Bank and asked 
it to do a chargeback.  She told Tesco Bank  about  the handwritten note on the receipt and 
she was led to believe  it would raise  a chargeback. A few days  later she contacted Tesco  
Bank to find out why it hadnt refunded the cost of the missing items.  She says Tesco  Bank 
told her - after shed sent the receipt  to them  that it had no way of proving whod written on 
the receipt.
Miss S complained to Tesco Bank. Tesco Bank  agreed it hadnt acted fairly. It agreed there 
was nothing to stop it using the handwritten note on the receipt to support  a chargeback 
claim. However, a handwritten receipt  would increase the chances  of the retailer  
challenging the chargeback.
It also said it couldnt use the chargeback scheme  because the items had been collected 
rather than delivered.  It paid £55 compensation and said it would  review  Miss Ss claim if 
she could provide further evidence from the retailer to confirm the amount itd agreed  to 
refund.
Unhappy with Tesco Banks response  Miss S brought her complaint to our service.  Our 
adjudicator recommended  that her complaint should  be upheld.
Our adjudicator thought Tesco Bank should have attempted a chargeback  based on the 
receipt provided by Miss S whether or not the chargeback  would have been successful. 
They also thought it was unreasonable of Tesco Bank to ask Miss S to provide further 
information from the retailer to show the amount itd agreed to refund  because the receipt 
provided by Miss S already showed the missing items and their amounts. The adjudicator  
recommended that Tesco Bank should  pay £100 compensation in addition to the £55 
already paid.
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators view. She asked for £200  compensation in total 
rather than £155  - due to the rudeness  of Tesco  Banks  staff and the amount of time she 
spent on calls.
Tesco Bank also disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. It doesnt agree  it should  have done a chargeback whether or not the chargeback  
would have succeeded. Tesco Bank  thinks the adjudicators view differs  from this services 
usual approach of expecting a business  to do a chargeback only where theres a 
reasonable chance of success.
Ref: DRN76771592Tesco Bank doesnt think it was unreasonable of it to ask Miss S to provide further evidence 
to confirm the amount the retailer had agreed to refund. It says it would be difficult to prove  
without further  evidence - whod  put the note on the receipt.
Tesco Bank considers  that the £55 compensation already paid is generous especially as 
Miss S has now confirmed that shes resolved matters with the retailer  so shes not lost out 
financially.
my first provisional  decision
I explained that I didnt think Tesco Bank had acted unfairly when it didnt  attempt a 
chargeback for Miss S.
I explained that:
the chargeback  scheme is a voluntary code and not a consumer right
theres no guarantee a consumer will get their money back
wed generally expect  a business  to attempt a chargeback where  theres a 
reasonable prospect of success
chargebacks can only be used for specific circumstances  known as reason codes.
chargeback where  goods not received
I was satisfied Tesco Bank had reasonable grounds  to believe that if it submitted a 
chargeback for the reason code goods not received this would  have failed  because this 
reason code can only be used where goods  are delivered and arent received. In Miss Ss 
case she collected her order so shed be expected to check it was correct at the point of 
collection.
chargeback where  the retailer agreed to make a refund but hadnt done so
Tesco Bank confirmed  it could have submitted a chargeback based on the handwritten 
receipt Miss S had provided  as evidence that the retailer had agreed to make  the refund.  
But I didnt think Tesco Bank had acted unfairly  in coming to the conclusion that if it 
submitted a chargeback on the handwritten alone, the chargeback  was unlikely to succeed. 
Thats because Tesco Bank thought  it would  be easy for the retailer  to challenge  the 
handwritten receipt  as it would be difficult to prove whod  written on it.
I didnt think Tesco Bank had acted unfairly in asking Miss S to provide additional 
confirmation to show the retailer had agreed  to make the refund. That was because from an 
evidential point of view it would be easy  for the retailer to challenge  the chargeback and for 
the chargeback  to fail.
I thought Tesco Bank  acted fairly  because I thought it had reasonable grounds to believe a 
chargeback wouldnt  succeed based on the information it had at the time. I also thought 
Tesco Bank requested  further information from Miss S to evidence  the refund not to be 
unfair to her but with a view to improving the chances of her chargeback being successful.
summary
Tesco Bank accepted Miss S was given incorrect information at the outset when she was led 
to believe a chargeback would be submitted based on the handwritten note on the receipt. 
But since  bringing  her complaint  Miss S had resolved matters with the retailer and received a 
Ref: DRN76771593refund. As she hadnt lost out financially I thought  the £55 compensation already paid by 
Tesco Bank adequately compensated her for the trouble and inconvenience this had 
caused.
comments on my first provisional decision
Tesco Bank didnt  submit any further  information for my consideration.
Miss S provided detailed  comments for my consideration. In summary:
she brought her complaint not only about the chargeback but also about  the lack of 
customer service  she received and the time and distress caused.
she didnt think Id taken into account that she made Tesco  Banks claims handler 
aware of the evidence  she had to support her claim. This was initially  accepted  by 
Tesco Bank as sufficient evidence to raise  the chargeback and she had to call 
several times to follow this up.
she says she was told  incorrectly that takeaways arent covered by the chargeback 
rules.
she says the information she was given  should be correct  the first tie and Tesco  
Bank shouldnt be able to change its mind  several times.
she says Ive decided  what the retailer wouldve done if a chargeback claim had been 
raised and thats not right.
she says Tesco Bank took away her right to the possibility of a full refund and 
chargeback and it shouldnt be relived from its obligations just because  the retailer  
refunded her.
she thinks the service failings she experienced justify an additional £100  as the 
adjudicator had originally suggested.
my second  provisional  decision
I didnt think it would  be appropriate to increase the compensation from £55 to £155 as Miss 
S wanted because  I didnt  agree  shed  been denied the opportunity to bring a chargeback. 
Although she was prepared to take the risk of her chargeback failing if the retailer 
subsequently challenged  the chargeback I explained that a chargeback isnt a consumer 
right and consumers cant  require a business to raise a chargeback for them. And I didnt 
think Tesco  Bank had acted unfairly in thinking the chargeback was unlikely to succeed 
based on the handwritten note endorsed on the receipt.
I explained that we resolve  complaints by looking at what we consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I explained that we dont have any regulatory or 
disciplinary role over financial businesses. So although Miss S thinks  the information she 
was given should have been  correct the first time I explained that I couldnt  punish Tesco  
Bank for this. I also noted that Miss S hadnt suffered any financial loss because shed 
subsequently recovered the costs of the missing items from the retailer.  Miss S didnt think 
Tesco Bank should be relieved from its obligations  just because shes now recovered  the 
cost of the missing  items. But I explained  that I couldnt fairly ask Tesco  Bank to reimburse 
the cost of the missing items in these circumstances because to so would amount to double  
recovery.
In terms of the customer service she experienced I thought  Tesco Bank should have dealt 
with the chargeback better than it did. I thought the information she received meant shed 
spent longer dealing with Tesco Bank than she should have done. So I thought it would be 
appropriate to increase  the compensation from £55 to £105 overall.
Ref: DRN76771594comments on my second provisional  decision
Miss S and Tesco Bank both replied. Although the compensation  isnt as much as she 
wanted, Miss S accepts  my provisional decision to end the matter.  Tesco  Bank says the 
amount I intend to award to Miss S is too high and doesnt reflect  the service failings or the 
impact the mistake had on her. And it says its out of line with the normal  expectation  and 
learnings of our service.
Tesco Bank agrees  that it originally told Miss S it would raise  a chargeback but didnt and 
this caused confusion and the inconvenience of Miss S having  to call to chase for an 
outcome. It says it was correct not to make a chargeback and Miss S reclaimed her costs 
from the merchant directly. Tesco Bank thinks the compensation  of £55 referred  to in my first 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable in light of its service failings and the impact  this 
had on Miss S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their comments to my second provisional decision. Based on those 
comments I think its unlikely that any decision I reach will be acceptable to both parties.
Ive taken on board Tesco  Banks comments that my suggested award isnt in line with 
similar awards made by this service. However, we look at each complaint based on its merits 
and just because  weve made lower  awards in similar cases  doesnt preclude me from 
making a higher award in Miss Ss case if its fair and reasonable to do so taking into 
account the impact  this has had on Miss S.
As I explained in my provisional decisions I dont think Tesco  Bank acted unfairly when it 
didnt make a chargeback. Thats because a chargeback isnt a consumer right and I think  it 
had reasonable grounds to believe a chargeback wouldnt  succeed based on the receipt 
Miss S provided and in any event Miss S hasnt suffered any financial loss because since 
she brought her complaint to this service the retailer refunded the cost of the missing  items 
to her.
However, in making  an award of compensation I can also take into account the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss S to her in the way Tesco Bank  dealt with her chargeback 
and the information it gave. I remain of the opinion that Tesco  Bank could have dealt  with the 
chargeback better than it did. And I think the information she was given about the 
chargeback meant she spent much longer dealing with Tesco  Bank than she should have 
done.
Tesco Bank doesnt dispute that it initially led Miss S to believe it would make a chargeback  
 and this was after shed informed them she only had a note endorsed on the receipt as 
evidence of the missing  takeaway items.  I think Miss Ss were raised at the outset. So I can 
understand why Miss S was then upset when Tesco Bank later told her it wouldnt be able to 
do a chargeback for her after all.
Its clear from listening to the calls that Miss S wanted a clear explanation to understand the 
reasons why Tesco Bank was no longer able to make a chargeback  for her. From her point 
Ref: DRN76771595of view nothing had changed because shed just sent in the receipt as evidence  of the 
missing items - and which shed  already told Tesco  Bank about.
After she sent her receipt in, I dont think Tesco Bank managed  her expectations  well. Tesco 
Bank didnt  ring her to explain it wouldnt be able to make a chargeback for her. Instead,  
Miss S rang Tesco Bank to find out what was happening when she hadnt received  a 
temporary refund into her account as shed been  expecting.
I think its understandable that Miss S was looking for a clear explanation  so she could 
understand why Tesco  Bank was no longer able to make a chargeback  for her. But I dont 
think the information she was given was very clear  and its clear from listening to the calls 
that Miss S became  increasingly frustrated and led to her spending time and more calls to 
Tesco Bank.
Its also clear  from listening to the calls that Miss S went to the trouble  of checking her card 
issuers rules so she could validate  that the information she was given by Tesco  Bank was 
correct. But I dont  think she received clear  answers to the questions she asked  for 
example shed checked her card issuers rules herself to see where they referred  to having 
to check an order at the time and an answer  wasnt given.
I appreciate that my suggested award  of £105 may look high in comparison to the value of 
Miss Ss underlying chargeback. Ive previously explained that calculating an award for 
distress and inconvenience is not an exact  science. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint I think my suggested award reflects the distress  and inconvenience  caused to her 
as a result  of Tesco Banks  poor service.
I think Miss Ss expectations  should  have been  managed better when Tesco  Bank realised it 
wouldnt be able to make  a chargeback for her as it initially  led her to believe it would. I 
realise that Miss S subsequently  recovered the cost of the missing items  from the retailer.  
But she wouldnt have known that at the time so I can understand why she wanted a clear  
explanation at the time to understand why Tesco Bank was no longer able to do a 
chargeback for her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to pay to Miss S £50 for the inconvenience  caused to her as a result  of its poor 
customer service  in addition to the £55 its already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7677159