K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) refused to accept a 
lump sum payment he wanted  to make towards his finance agreement.
background
Mr A took receipt of a new car in September 2015. He financed  the deal through  a four year 
hire purchase agreement with BMWFS.  At the end of the agreement there was an optional 
final payment of just over £21,000 that Mr A could chose to pay if he wanted to take 
ownership of the car.
In December 2017 Mr A contacted BMWFS. He wanted to make a lump  sum payment of 
£20,000 but BMWFS  said that they were unable to reduce the final payment (the balloon 
payment) on the agreement as it was optional.
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service. He said that BMWFS were wrong to refuse his 
payment as the balloon payment formed part of the overall loan,  attracted  interest and could 
not therefore be treated differently. He also questioned the calculation  of the rebate hed 
been given in March 2018.
Our adjudicator didnt  agree with Mr A. She thought  BMWFSs rationale for rejecting the 
payment was reasonable. She said that although she understood Mr As intention  was to buy 
the car at the end of the term she couldnt be sure of that and if his position changed he may 
not be able to recoup any payment hed made  towards  the optional  final payment. She noted 
that the agreement didnt  explain that payments could  not be made  towards the balloon 
payment and she agreed that BMWFS could have made this clearer  but she thought  an 
optional final payment should  be just that  a final payment.
She went on to consider  the settlement calculation BMWFS had provided. She explained 
that this was a complex calculation that was automatically generated by BMWFS.  She said 
this service didnt have the facility to check it but that she had no evidence to suggest the 
rebate Mr A received in March 2018 was incorrect. 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators view. He said the adjudicator should have listened to 
the telephone calls hed had with BMWFS  and he stressed that the agreement  did not state 
that a payment towards the balloon payment could not be made. He was still unsure as to 
how the rebate had been calculated and he therefore asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN78260392Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
should BMWFS have  allowed a payment  against  the balloon  payment?
Im not persuaded that BMWFS have been unreasonable here.  I say that because:
If Mr A had proposed  an early  settlement of the agreement this would have been 
possible. The terms of the agreement say:
b) to repay  all the credit early, you must  pay all the amounts payable by you to us under 
this agreement, including the Purchase  Fee, less any rebate of charges allowable by 
law. 
But Mr A wanted to pay some of the optional final payment but not all of it and by 
doing so that would have the effect  of shortening the agreement  with something left 
to pay on the balloon payment. But that wasnt something that appears  to have been 
allowable under the agreement. 
I understand that the finance  agreement doesnt  specifically explain that part payments 
towards the balloon  payment cant be made. But I dont think  it would  be fair to suggest that 
all eventualities need to be covered. In this situation I think the balloon  payment is what  is 
paid when the contract ends or a full settlement is made. In those circumstances I think the 
contract does explain  what is required.
is the rebate  calculated  correctly?
The rebate will be calculated in line with the requirements of the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations  2004.
These regulations  set out the calculations that need  to be made. Theyre complicated and I 
note BMWFS have explained they are calculated automatically. Theyve not provided  a 
breakdown of the calculation but neither has Mr A provided  an alternative interpretation with 
reference to the practices set out in the legislation.  
Im persuaded therefore that its most likely BMWFSs calculation of the rebate is correct  and 
I say that because I think its fair to suggest their system and the algorithms used in it will be 
subject to regular  internal  and external auditing.
I note that Mr A has explained  that he received a lower rebate quote when he was proposing  
a higher settlement figure. I can understand that this has given him some  concerns about 
whether the rebate has been  calculated correctly. I note that our adjudicator asked BMWFS  
to explain the difference  but they were unable to provide any further details  as they 
explained the quotes were automatically  generated and historic.
Ref: DRN78260393But I dont think it would  be fair to suggest that on this basis alone  the rebate that was 
provided was incorrect.  Ive not seen evidence that BMWFS have not applied  the rebate 
calculation provided  for in the relevant legislation correctly. 
Im therefore  not persuaded that there is evidence the calculation  of the rebate was 
completed incorrectly and overall  Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
BMWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826039