K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc treated her unfairly when she fell into difficulties  after 
losing her job. Specifically, she says that the bank registered a default, closed her account 
and sold her overdraft debt  all without telling her clearly what it proposing to do and what 
the consequences would be for her. 
background
Miss O had a current account with Lloyds with a £2,500  overdraft facility.  Unfortunately,  she 
lost her job and, as a result, began to find it difficult to maintain her account within the 
overdraft limit. 
The bank says that, through its solicitors, it wrote  to her on 20 March  2018 demanding 
payment and suggesting that, in the absence of payment,  it might  start legal proceedings 
and lodge information with credit  reference  agencies. 
Miss O called the bank  the following day, and the bank agreed  to take no further action for 
30 days. But when  there was no further contact from Miss O, it closed the account  and 
registered a default. 
Miss O says that she didnt receive the letter of 20 March,  but that, even if she had, it didnt 
set out clearly what she needed  to do and the likely  consequences of not doing  it. If shed  
had clearer information,  she says she could have made different arrangements, such  as 
borrowing from family. 
Initially, our adjudicator indicated that she agreed  with Miss O that the bank hadnt treated 
her fairly. Lloyds didnt  agree, however, and provided further  information,  in particular about 
the letter of 20 March 2018. As a result, the adjudicator changed her mind  and concluded  
that the bank had, after all, treated Miss O fairly. Miss O didnt agree, and so the complaint 
has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I broadly agree with the 
adjudicators revised opinion  that the bank has treated Miss O fairly.  
I will say first of all that I have a good  deal of sympathy for Miss O and the position  in which  
she found herself. Its clearly unfortunate that lost her job and was unable to maintain her 
bank account  within agreed limits.  But that doesnt  mean that the bank wasnt  entitled to take 
the action it did  even though Miss O says that other creditors were more  sympathetic in 
their approach.
I turn then to the letter of 20 March. Lloyds  has provided a template and a copy of its internal 
records indicating that a demand  letter was sent. The template  sets out  in my view quite 
clearly  that money is owing, that the bank wants repayment by a certain date and that 
failure to pay may result in information being passed  to credit reference agencies  and/or 
legal action. It may be that Miss O didnt get the letter, or that she simply overlooked it. But I 
think it more likely than not that it was sent;  and, whilst many letters  do go missing  in the 
post, the vast majority are correctly  delivered, so I think its more likely than not that Miss O 
received it. 
Ref: DRN78924062Miss O spoke  to Lloyds by telephone the following  day. She says  quite fairly  I think  that 
theres no proof that this call was a consequence of the letter. But the result of the call was 
that the bank agreed to take no action for a further  30 days. I think  it likely therefore  that they 
were linked. 
It may be that Miss O didnt get the letter and that the call was unconnected with it. But even 
if I took a different view on those  points from the one I have taken, I think  it is clear  that 
Miss O knew  that the bank was seeking  payment from her. I dont believe she can have 
been in any real doubt about that. 
Miss O says that, had she understood the true position, she would have taken steps to bring 
her account  back into order. I note however that, even when by her own account she 
realised what the position  was, she only made token payments to reduce her debt. In the 
circumstances, Ive no reason to think she would have acted any differently had she 
appreciated the seriousness of the situation  earlier. I wont  therefore  be requiring the bank to 
do anything more in this case.
I would nevertheless remind Lloyds of its obligation to treat cases  of financial difficulty  in a 
positive and sympathetic  manner   and that this is an ongoing  obligation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds to do anything further to resolve this matter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7892406