K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about advice he says he received from a Positive Solutions (Financial 
Services) Limited (PSL) financial adviser to switch his existing pension  provision  into a SIPP 
and then invest in Harlequin overseas property investments. He says this advice was 
unsuitable for him. Mr P says that the investments are high risk and he has a, very low 
acceptance of risk. Furthermore, the pension fund that was switched  to the SIPP  
represented almost all of his invested  wealth  and he had no other investments of any kind.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 8 January 2020. A copy  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the decision I explained  why I believed  this complaint would fall within my 
jurisdiction. I also set out why I believed the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr Ps representative made  no further  submissions.
PSL said that it did not accept my provisional decision. I have read its response in full but, in 
summary, it said:
I should not issue a final decision in this case as PSL is challenging a similar decision 
in a different case. This case  should  be delayed until that judicial  review  challenge 
has been concluded.
The provisional decision is irrational, makes  findings for which  there is no evidence  
and also fails to take into account  relevant evidence. The provisional decision was 
arrived at in a procedurally unfair  way as no oral hearing was held and/or made a 
determination on a case which any rational  decision maker would have concluded  
was not suitable for determination  by an ombudsman  and should have been left to a 
Court.  
The ombudsman can only have jurisdiction if PSL is liable for the acts or omissions 
about which Mr P complains and the ombudsman has to take account of the law 
when making that finding.  
It considers my provisional conclusions on jurisdiction are wrong as a matter of law, 
both in the matter  of what the law is and how it applies to the facts of this complaint. 
As to the latter I have  made findings  for which there is no evidence and/or which no 
rational decision  maker could have made. 
As the law in respect of the matters considered in this complaint is evolving and 
difficult the only rational decision the ombudsman could have come to would  be to 
decline jurisdiction and leave  the matter to the Court.  
Even if the ombudsman had jurisdiction, he could not fairly determine the complaint 
without holding an oral hearing.  This is because reliance cannot be fairly determined 
without it. The decision not to hold such a hearing is irrational. 
As to vicarious liability the Cox case quoted in the provisional decision is not 
applicable in the context of principal and agent  as confirmed in Cox itself and 
Winter v Hickley Mint [2019] and Anderson v Sense.
Ref: DRN71739392Even if Cox is applicable the only rational conclusion  is that the adviser (Mr H) was 
acting on his own, separate  to PSL and PSL had no connection with his acts.  This is 
because commission was not paid to PSL, no records of the investment were  
generated at PSL, the investment transaction was unknown  to PSL and there was no 
reason it should  have  known about  it. 
Therefore it cannot be rationally  concluded,  applying the correct law, that there was 
vicarious liability. 
Mr H was an agent of PSL for authorised purposes and the adviser was not an 
employee of, or a partner of, PSL. So the only potential relationship capable of giving 
rise to vicarious liability is an agency  one. 
This is not an area in which the law has been  authoritively set out. It is a developing 
area where the ombudsman has formed an opinion  of the law - it is not fair to the 
parties for the ombudsman to consider it. The issues involved in this complaint are 
not best determined by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so I have reached  the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
of 8 January 2020 and would refer the parties  to it. In brief, in that provisional decision I set 
out my findings that:
Mr Ps complaint  is about an act or omission  in relation to carrying  on regulated 
activities, which Mr H carried  out for Mr P. 
PSL represented to Mr P that Mr H had authority to conduct business of the same  type 
as the business  he did conduct. And Mr P relied  on those  representations. Apparent 
authority therefore operated and PSL is responsible  for the acts Mr P complains about.
In addition,  PSL is vicariously  liable for the investment advice  Mr H gave to Mr P. 
Although Mr H was not an employee  of PSL,  he was an approved person with 
responsibility for carrying on PSL business of advising its customers  and arranging  the 
investments recommended. As such he carried on activities  as an integral part of PSLs  
business and had a sufficiently close relationship to PSL for vicarious  liability to arise.  
Mr Hs advice was so closely  connected to PSLs business activities  that PSL is liable 
for it.
PSL is also liable  to Mr P under  section  150 of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 
2000.
Mr Ps complaint  therefore falls within my jurisdiction.
Mr Hs advice was unsuitable for Mr P.
Mr P acted on the advice and suffered loss as a result of it.
Ref: DRN71739393It is fair and reasonable for PSL to compensate  Mr P for that loss.
PSL says I should  wait to decide  this complaint  until after its judicial review challenge to a 
decision on a similar case has been resolved. I do not agree that it is appropriate to put this 
complaint on hold. While PSL argues that I have made the same  mistakes of law as it alleges in 
another case, as I will explain  below, I am not persuaded that I have made  mistakes  of law and 
each case does turn on its own particular facts.  I would also note that PSL has been  given 
sufficient time to make whatever submissions  it wanted to make  and so I am satisfied that it has 
had a fair opportunity to put its case.  
apparent authority
PSL says my provisional decision contains  or is based on errors  of law. It has not said what  
errors it thinks  I have made  in relation to apparent authority, only vicarious liability.  
However, although it has not specifically argued the point  in this complaint, PSL says the 
question is not whether  it gave Mr H authority  to transact a general class  of acts.  The 
question is whether PSL gave Mr H authority  in relation to this transaction.
I agree  that the ultimate question is whether there  was apparent  authority in relation to this 
transaction. But in addressing that, I believe I should consider whether PSL placed Mr H in a 
position which would objectively carry PSLs authority  for Mr H to conduct  business of a type 
he did in fact conduct.
I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts. 
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent has 
authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into a contract, of a kind within  the scope of the 
apparent authority. And in Armagas , Lord Keith said that in the commonly encountered case  
ostensible authority is general in character  arising  when the agent is placed  in a position  
generally regarded  as carrying, authority to enter into transactions  of the kind in question . 
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director,  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  
director.  I consider that, the usual authority of a managing director  includes a wide variety  of 
acts. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision I am satisfied that PSL represented to 
Mr P that Mr H had its authority to carry out the acts which an independent financial adviser 
would usually have  authority to do  including giving investment advice on behalf of PSL. 
PSL did not specifically mention the Harlequin investments in its representations,  but that is 
not determinative. Neither  is the point that Mr H did not have actual authority to give the 
advice he gave. Mr H had PSLs apparent authority to act on its behalf in advising Mr P to 
switch/surrender existing  investments  (in this case a pension) so that an investment  could  be 
made in Harlequin,  because he had PSLs more general apparent authority to act on its 
behalf in giving him that kind of investment advice.
Ref: DRN71739394PSLs representations as to the authority of Mr C
The points made by PSL in other  cases are largely framed by its view that representations 
must be specific rather than general. I do not agree with that view.  
For example, PSL says in other  cases  procuring the advisers registration  with the FSA is not 
a representation to Mr P. The rules require such registration just as they require, status 
disclosure, and that Jacobs J found  in Anderson v Sense that a status  disclosure could 
never be a representation  and the same  conclusion must apply to the register. However the 
judges finding was that on the particular facts of that case, the status disclosure, was  not a 
representation of any kind to the effect  that [the agent] was running  the [Ponzi] scheme with 
the authority of Sense or as the agent of the Defendant  (emphasis added).  Financial 
advisers are not usually  authorised to run schemes  and that is the context in which the 
finding was made. 
Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, as the courts 
have found, be relevant  representations creating apparent authority. This was the finding in 
Martin v Britannia  Life, by Jonathan  Parker  J on apparent authority based on the contents  of 
a business card. 
Obtaining approval  from the Regulator  for Mr H to advise PSLs customers  about 
investments was part of the conduct  by which  PSL held him out to the world in general as 
authorised to do that. 
PSL has said if this amounts  to a representation it would make PSL liable for anything  said 
or done by Mr H relating to anything which might  broadly amount to financial advice. PSL 
has separately said this is, an absurd proposition. But that is not what I said or implied  and 
the cases of Martin v Britannia  and Anderson v Sense show  how such  matters  can be 
applied (and limited) in practice.  
I do not say in this case there was a holding  out that everything Mr H might do was 
authorised. But, to the extent that he gave  advice to PSLs customers  such  as Mr P about 
their investments, this was the type of business he was held out as carrying on for it.  
It remains my finding that PSL did represent to Mr P through its conduct  that Mr H had its 
authority to act on its behalf in carrying on the activities complained about.
reliance
PSL has not in its response disputed my finding on reliance. And my view is unchanged. 
This was a straightforward matter of clients dealing with their existing  PSL adviser because 
he was a PSL adviser  Mr P has made comment to that effect.  He said he accepted  it was 
a PSL adviser  who was recommending  changes  that he justified. There is no evidence to 
show that Mr P knew or should have known that Mr H was acting  in any capacity other than 
a PSL adviser.  Mr P proceeded on the basis that Mr H was acting in every  respect  as the 
agent of PSL with authority from PSL so to act.
should PSL bear the loss caused by the pension switch and investments in 
Harlequin?
 
My assessment as to whether PSL should  bear this loss was not intended to be read as part 
of the test for apparent  authority. It is a point the courts consider as a check that they have  
Ref: DRN71739395reached the right conclusion. I regard the test for apparent  authority  as being satisfied on the 
facts in this complaint. The reference to the justice of the case was by way of such  a cross 
check and was included  as the courts often  include  such  an explanation and to be helpful to 
the parties.
My views on this point  are unchanged   though  I should make it clear that my comment  
should be read as relating to the carrying on of the controlled function  in this case, i.e. to the 
circumstances of this complaint and Mr Ps losses from the advice he complains about - not 
all possible  losses in any possible circumstance.
vicarious liability
I have considered what PSL has said in its response  to the provisional  decision but I remain 
satisfied that PSL is vicariously liable for the acts Mr P complains about, for the reasons I gave 
in my provisional decision  though on re-reading my provisional decision I see a point I was 
trying to make was possibly not made as clearly as I would like. 
Under the heading the stage two test the first sentence in the second  bullet point says:
If PSL is not vicariously liable  here, then Mr Ps ability to obtain compensation would  
depend on whether the PSL Partner  he dealt  with was an employee of PSL.
The above  does not really  help to introduce  the point I was trying  to make which is made in 
the rest of the paragraph - that in Cox the court suggested it would be unreasonable  and 
unfair for the claimants ability to receive compensation to depend on whether the relevant 
worker was an employee or not.  
Moving from that specific clarification to the issue more generally, I remain  of the view that the 
tests laid down by the Supreme Court in Cox and Mohamud are applicable.  Those decisions 
make it very clear  that non-employment relationships can give rise to vicarious  liability. 
The purpose of the guidance contained  in Cox is to define the criteria by which a non-
employment relationship can be judged as either  capable or incapable of giving rise to 
vicarious liability. In the present case, Mr Hs relationship  with PSL satisfies  those criteria 
and had similarities to employment, as I explained  in my provisional decision. It would seem  
very odd if that were  to count for nothing just because he enjoyed  powers  of an agent  to 
contract business. Many employees are given  authority, as agent, to contract  business  on 
their employers behalf and Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (paragraph  1-004) says that 
the status of an agent will usually be either that of employee or independent  contractor. So 
it cannot have  been intended that the test in Cox is disapplied whenever there  is an agency. 
PSL says Lord Reed  made it clear  in Cox that the decision did not apply to principals  and 
agents. But that is not what Lord Reed actually said, which  was:
15.  Vicarious liability in tort is imposed upon a person  in respect  of the act or 
omission of another individual, because of his relationship with that individual,  and 
the connection between that relationship  and the act or omission in question.  
Leaving aside other areas of the law where  vicarious liability  can operate,  such  as 
partnership and agency (with  which this judgment is not concerned), the 
relationship is classically  one of employment,  and the connection is that the 
employee committed the act or omission in the course of his employment:  that is to 
say, within  the field of activities assigned to him, as Lord Cullen put it in Central 
Ref: DRN71739396Motors (Glasgow) Ltd v Cessnock Garage and Motor Co 1925 SC 796 , 802, or, 
adapting the words  of Diplock LJ in Ilkiw v Samuels [1963] 1 WLR 991 , 1004, in 
the course of his job, considered broadly. That aspect of vicarious liability is fully 
considered by Lord Toulson JSC in Mohamud  v Wm Morrison Supermarkets  plc 
[2016] AC 677.
16.  It has however  long been recognised that a relationship can give rise to 
vicarious liability even  in the absence  of a contract of employment
I think that Lord Reed  is recognising that aside from cases  where  vicarious liability is 
imposed because there is a relationship of, or having similar features to, employment (which  
the Cox case  considers), there exist categories of cases, such  as partnership and agency, 
where vicarious liability can be imposed on different bases  (which the Cox case  does  not 
consider).  I dont think that he can be taken to have  said that no principal can ever be 
vicariously liable for an agent under Cox, even though their relationship fulfils  the Cox and 
Mohamud criteria for such liability. 
PSL have also referred  me to paragraph 63 of the Court of Appeal  decision in Winter v 
Hockley Mint. But it does  not address the point that the paragraph begins with the words:
The analysis did not identify  or address the essential ingredients of vicarious  liability of a 
principal for the deceit of his agent as required  by Armagas  
This is not a complaint about  deceit. There is no finding that PSL is vicariously liable for the 
deceit of its agent. The complaint is - and the finding made against PSL for which  it is liable 
is - that the advice  was negligent  and/or unsuitable and in breach  of statutory duty. 
I recognised in my provisional decision that Cox and Mohamud dont apply to torts of 
dishonesty, but I am not aware of any case which holds that they dont apply whenever the 
defendant has given the wrongdoer any authority  to act as its agent.  For the reasons I have 
given above I would  not expect the courts to arrive at such  a conclusion.  
I also want to make clear that I do not say that the fact PSL put Mr H in a position which 
gave him the opportunity to make  errors  is in itself sufficient to make  PSL vicariously liable 
for his conduct. But I am saying that, after taking the whole of the evidence  into account, I 
am satisfied  that PSL is vicariously  liable  for the actions of Mr H in this complaint.
I accept that Mr H gave some advice to Mr P without PSLs  knowledge or actual authority 
and that it did not receive payments for it. But I do not agree that he was advising in the 
context of a recognisably independent business using his separate  trading name as a 
separate business. It was clear he was using  HNIS  as a representative of PSL.
If Mr Hs conduct  had been fraudulent, then much of the case  law I have  quoted in relation  
to vicarious liability  would not apply.  But there  is no finding of fraud.  And even if it was, or 
even if the test in Cox does not apply  for some other  reason,  PSL would still be responsible  
for the acts complained of by reason of apparent authority and statutory responsibility.
statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
Taking everything into account,  I remain satisfied that section 150 FSMA provides an 
alternative route by which PSL is responsible. This is a statutory responsibility, and Im not 
Ref: DRN71739397persuaded that (if Im wrong about  apparent authority) the absence of actual or apparent 
authority would mean that responsibility  wouldnt arise under section 150 FSMA:
Section 150 FSMA is a consumer-protecting provision relating to regulatory rules  which  
were themselves created to protect consumers. Together they create a statutory right to 
damages for breaches of the Regulators  rules and this can apply even where theres  no 
relationship between the firm and the consumer, so I would not expect the absence of 
apparent authority  to be decisive.
Instead the way FSMA is framed  and has been interpreted by the Regulator  seems to 
analyse the question of a firms  responsibility  for its personnel/contractors  (if they arent 
appointed representatives)  according  to the question of whose business is being carried  
on  the principals or the individuals. This is essentially very similar to the Cox v 
Ministry of Justice  test. Its not done  according to the law of agency/apparent authority. 
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) is current Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
guidance which directly  addresses  the question of regulatory responsibility for an 
authorised persons  delegated activities. It deals  with the question  of whether a 
delegated activity is carried on for regulatory  purposes  by an employer/principal or by 
their employee/agent. It explains  that employees  and agents wont breach  the general  
prohibition if the employee/agent  is doing  no more than carrying  on the business of their 
employer/principal  as opposed to carrying on their own business. And it describes  
relevant factors  for deciding whose business is being carried  on (PERG 2.3.5-2.3.7).   
FSA rules  and now FCA rules  control  how firms carry on regulated and other activities,  
including delegated activities carried on by the firm. Deciding whether a firm has 
breached a rule (including for section 150 FSMA purposes) involves the same  question 
as the PERG guidance  whether it was the firm which  was carrying on the relevant 
activity as part of its business, as opposed  to a delegate carrying  on the activity  as part 
of its own business.
So the relevant  question under  section  150 FSMA is which partys business (i.e. PSLs 
or Mr Hs) was being carried  on. That question is similar  to the test in Cox v Ministry of 
Justice but it isnt limited by whether there was actual  or ostensible authority. 
To help understand the test, the FCA guidance explains how it applies, as an example, 
in the provision of home credit. This is a regulated business in which large firms  often 
deal with their customers through self-employed agents,  who call on customers at their 
homes to make  loans  and collect payments  on which  they earn commission.  PERG 
2.3.11 states:
Although the overall  relationship between a home collected credit  provider  (the 
principal firm) and a person providing the services(the  individual) will need to 
be taken into account, meeting  the following criteria is likely to mean  that the 
individual is carrying on the business  of the principal firm (as its agent) and not 
his own, meaning  that the individual does not require  authorisation or to be 
exempt:
(1)the principal firm appoints the individual as an agent;
(2)the individual only works for one principal firm;
Ref: DRN71739398(3)the principal firm has a permission from the FCA for every activity  the individual  
is carrying on for which the principal firm would need permission if it was carrying 
on the activity itself;
(4)the contract sets out effective measures for the principal firm to control the 
individual;
(6)the principal firm accepts full responsibility  for the conduct of the individual when 
the individual is acting on the principal  firms  behalf in the course of its business;  
and
(7)the individual makes clear to customers that it is representing a principal  firm as 
its agent and the name of that principal firm.
The relationship described in PERG  2.3.11  has a lot of similarities to the relationship 
between Mr H and PSL:
oPSL had appointed Mr H as an agent.
oThe FCA register  suggests Mr H wasnt  an approved  person or appointed 
representative for any other firm at the relevant time.
oPSL had permission for the activities  carried on by Mr H that needed  permission.
oThe agreement between PSL and Mr H set out a number of measures for PSL to 
control Mr H.
oClause 2.4 of the agreement between PSL and Mr H said:
The Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations  of the 
Registered Individual  in the course  of carrying out the business of the Agency 
hereby created, or in the course of performance  of the duties hereby contracted
oIm satisfied Mr H caused  Mr P to believe he was representing PSL through his words 
and conduct as discussed in my provisional decision.
So, looking  at whose  business Mr H was carrying on in this case  when he dealt with Mr P, I 
still think it was PSLs business  and not his own. And I think my finding that PSL is liable 
under section 150 FSMA for the acts complained about is in line with how FSMA and the 
rules are intended to operate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that under section 150 FSMA, PSL is responsible for the 
acts complained of.
Ref: DRN71739399suitability of this complaint for determination  by an ombudsman
When Mr P referred his complaint to the ombudsman service, there wasnt  a provision under 
the DISP Rules (in particular the dismissal provisions under DISP 3.3.4A (R)) that allowed 
an ombudsman to dismiss the complaint on the basis that it would  be better dealt with by a 
court. 
In any event I acknowledge  that PSL believes that it would be more  suitable for the subject 
matter of this complaint  to be dealt with by a court. But I do not agree.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service routinely  deals  with disputes about whether a 
respondent firm is responsible for the acts a consumer has complained about. Some  of 
those disputes  are more  complex than others, and PSL is right to say that this particular 
complaint concerns a developing area of law. But I see no reason  why that prevents me from 
considering the matter.
Overall, I am satisfied that I can resolve  this complaint justly, fairly, and within my 
jurisdiction. 
oral hearing
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly  determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the 
parties to take part in a hearing.
PSL hasnt requested a hearing as such in this complaint but it has said this complaint 
cannot be fairly determined without one. 
Ive therefore  thought  about this point in the specific circumstances  of this complaint and Im 
satisfied I can fairly  determine the matter without a hearing. In particular, I note:
Mr P was present at the advice meetings and he has been clear about what  occurred. 
Furthermore there is a considerable  amount of evidence (set out in the attached  
provisional decision) about the involvement and actions of Mr H in the pension  switch 
and investments - which  effectively corroborate what Mr P has said. Whilst the events 
complained of happened  some time ago and memories inevitably fade Im satisfied, 
given the evidence, that I can reach a fair outcome using  all the available  evidence and 
Im not persuaded hearing oral evidence would assist me.
PSL clearly believes Ive misunderstood  the law and it set out its position clearly in 
writing.
The Court of Appeal  has adopted a very flexible approach to whats fair in this context 
(Financial Ombudsman  Service v Heather Moor & Edgecomb  Ltd [2008] EWCA Civ 643).
my findings as to the merits of the complaint 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN717393910Neither party has made any further  submissions on the merits of the complaint or the way I 
said things should  be put right. My view remains as set out in the attached  provisional 
decision.  
how to put things right
I set out in the attached  provisional decision why it was appropriate and fair for PSL to pay 
compensation in this case. And I also set out how compensation should  be calculated. But, 
to confirm:
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr P as close  to the position he would probably  now be in if he had not been  given  
unsuitable advice.
I think with suitable  advice Mr P would have kept his existing pension. But its unlikely to be 
possible for PSL to reinstate Mr P into his previous pension  scheme.  
There are also a number  of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award. While I 
understand Harlequin will allow PSL to take over the investment  from Mr P, the involvement 
of third parties  the SIPP provider and Harlequin Property  means much of this is beyond 
this service or the businesss control.  
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this 
service may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property(ies) will be completed and 
unlikely that the contract  and any future payments would be enforceable  but I cant be 
certain of that.
While its complicated to put Mr P back in the position he would have  been  in if suitable 
advice had been given, I think its fair that Mr P is compensated now. I dont think we should  
wait and determine each and every  possibility before making  an award. What is set out 
below is a fair way of achieving this. 
In summary,  PSL should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ps previous pension plan, as at the date of 
my final decision, if it not been  transferred to the SIPP.   
2.Obtain the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Ps SIPP,  including any 
outstanding charges.  
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer  value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
In addition, PSL should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mr P to the SIPP, for the next five years.
5.Pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN717393911I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ps previous pension plan if it had not been 
transferred to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of my final decision.
PSL should ask Mr P's former pension provider to calculate  the notional  transfer  value that 
would have applied  as at the date of my final decision had he not transferred  his pension but 
instead remained invested. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
PSL should assume that any contributions or withdrawals  that have been made would still 
have been made, and on the same dates
2.Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of my final decision of Mr Ps SIPP, including 
any outstanding  charges. 
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer value  is increased  to equal the 
amount calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, PSL should pay it as a cash sum 
to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional  allowance should be calculated using Mr 
Ps marginal  rate of tax in retirement.
4.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had PSL given  suitable advice I dont  think there  would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr P 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, PSL should take over the investment  to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr P back in the position he would have been in. But the ownership  of 
the Harlequin property investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely that will change  at 
some point, but I dont  know  when  that will be  there are a number of uncertainties.  
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that PSL pays  Mr P an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees), or 
undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, PSL may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin  property 
Ref: DRN717393912investment in that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any 
party as a result of the investment. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount he may 
receive. PSL will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr P to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation  awarded by this decision may be 
dependent upon provision  of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, PSL wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any 
future payments under the Harlequin property  investment, it must agree to pay any further 
future SIPP fees. If PSL fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr P should then have the option  of 
trying to cancel the Harlequin property contracts to enable the SIPP  to be closed.
In addition, PSL is entitled to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr P of any claim Mr P 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Harlequin property 
investment. If PSL chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected  before 
payment of compensation is made. PSL must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr P 
for his consideration and agreement. 
5.Pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
If PSL doesnt pay the compensation within 28 days  of being informed that Mr P has 
accepted my decision, interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year on the fair compensation 
payable shall be paid from the date of my decision to the date of payment. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PSL deducts  income  tax from the interest  
it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. PSL should give Mr P a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
My understanding is that Mr Ps Harlequin investments were  deposits.  There are therefore 
more parts  of the contract for the remaining purchase price of the property that havent been 
paid yet. No loss has been suffered yet for these parts of the contract, so it isnt being 
compensated for here.  But the loss may still occur. If the property is completed,  Harlequin  
could still require those  payments to be made.  I think its unlikely there  will be a further loss. 
But Mr P needs to understand that this is possible,  and he wont  be able to bring a further 
complaint to us if the contract is called upon.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs/interest  on costs that I consider
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000  limit, I may recommend
that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I consider that fair compensation  should  be calculated  as
set out above.  My decision is that PSL should pay Mr P the amount produced by that 
calculation - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that PSL pays Mr P the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  PSL doesnt have to do
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision and go to court to
Ref: DRN717393913ask for the balance.  Mr P may want to get independent legal advice before deciding
whether to accepting  my final decision  should my decision remain the same as the
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision and the attached provisional decision, this complaint 
does fall within my jurisdiction.
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  and order Positive Solutions (Financial Services) 
Limited to calculate  and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN717393914Copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr P has complained about advice he says he received from a PSL (Financial  Services) Limited 
(PSL) financial adviser to switch his existing  pension  provision into a SIPP and then invest  in 
Harlequin overseas property  investments.  He says this advice was unsuitable  for him. Mr P says that 
the investments  are high risk and he has a, very low acceptance of risk.  Furthermore  the pension  
fund that was switched to the SIPP  represented  almost all of his invested wealth and he had no other 
investments of any kind.
background 
In January 2010 a SIPP application for Mr P was submitted to Guardian Pension Consultants  (GPC)  
by Mr H. Mr H was a representative  of PSL. Accompanying  the SIPP  application were  three Harlequin  
purchase contracts to be held within the SIPP.
The pension  switch took place in February 2010. Mr P has said that it was Mr H who advised him to 
switch his pension into the SIPP and invest in Harlequin. And he says that the documentation shows 
that when arranging the switch and investment Mr H was acting for Houghton  Newton Investment  
Services (HNIS), a trading style of PSL.
I understand the Harlequin investments have failed and have no value.
Mr P complained via his representative to PSL about the advice he had been given. His 
representative said that the advice had been unsuitable and inappropriate for Mr Ps circumstances.
PSL did not uphold  the complaint. It said, in summary, that it had no record of having provided advice 
to Mr P, and had HNIS/Mr H provided advice  on the pension switch  and Harlequin investments, it 
would not be responsible for it. As no advice had been provided by PSL,  Mr P was not an eligible 
complainant and a referral to the ombudsman service  would  be outside of this services jurisdiction.
The complaint was referred to this service at which point PSL reiterated that it did not think  the 
ombudsman service  had jurisdiction. An adjudicator at this service considered the issue and 
concluded that the case did not fall within our jurisdiction. In summary he said:
The regulated activity  of arranging was undertaken by Mr H whilst acting as a representative  
of PSL.
However, in order to be in jurisdiction the act must  also be an activity  for which PSL accepted 
responsibility. The registered individual agreement between  Mr H and PSL meant that, 
assuming Mr H undertook the act, PSL was not responsible for it.
As a result  the complaint was not one that this service could consider.
Mr Ps representative did not agree  and made  further  submissions.  It said,  in summary:
The letterhead shows that as a trading style of PSL, HNIS  was a part of PSL.
PSL promote its advisers as partners  on its website.  As partners  PSL are bound to the 
actions of Mr H, and cannot disown those actions.
As a result, PSL is responsible for Mr Hs actions and its incorrect to rely solely  on the 
contract.
 
Ref: DRN717393915my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
We cant consider  all complaints brought to this service.  Before we can consider  the merits of a 
complaint, we need to check, by reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys DISP Rules and the 
legislation from which those rules are derived,  whether the complaint is one we have the power to 
look at. In this case, PSL says that we dont have the power to look at this complaint,  on the basis  that 
it relates to acts PSL arent responsible for. PSL says it didnt authorise HNIS to provide any advice  or 
services in respect of the GPC SIPP or the Harlequin investment. 
DISP Rule 2.3.1R says the ombudsman service  can, consider a complaint  under the Compulsory 
Jurisdiction if it relates  to an act or omission  by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor  any 
ancillary activities, including advice, carried  on by the firm in connection with them. 
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G  says that, complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in 
respect of activities for which  the firmis  responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firmhas accepted responsibility. 
So there are two points to consider in order to decide whether this complaint is one I can look at:
Were the acts about which Mr P complains  done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?  
Were those acts the acts of the authorised firm, (PSL)? 
the regulatory background
I have taken into account the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), Financial  Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook section of the FSA Handbook (COBS).
regulated activities
An activity is a regulated activity if it is an activity of a specified kind that is carried  on by way of 
business and relates to an investment of a specified kind, unless otherwise specified (section 22, 
FSMA).
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of buying or 
selling a particular  investment which  is a security or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO),  and 
making arrangements for another  person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).  
the general  prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or purport to 
do so, unless they are either an authorised  person or an exempt person. 
This is known as the general  prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about,  PSL was an authorised person (also referred  to as a 
firm in regulators rules).  That means it could  carry  out regulated activities without being in breach  of 
the general  prohibition.
Mr H was neither an authorised person nor exempt from authorisation.  HNIS was not a separate legal 
entity  it was just a trading name he used. That means that if Mr H had carried  out a regulated 
activity on his own behalf,  whether in his own name or his trading name, by way of business, he 
would have been in breach of the general  prohibition.  
the approved  persons  regime
Ref: DRN717393916The approved persons regime  is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers by 
ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry  out certain  functions within the 
financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1)  An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure  that no person performs  
a controlled function under  an arrangement entered into by A in relation to the carrying on by 
A of a regulated activity,  unless the Authority approves the performance by that person of the 
controlled function  to which the arrangement relates.
PSL was an authorised person. The act of advising  on investments was a controlled function. 
PSL arranged for Mr H to be was registered on the FSA register as CF30 Customer  from 2007 to 
2011.  
The approved persons regime  does not depend on an individuals  employment  status. Employees  can 
be approved  persons,  as can non-employees like Mr H.  
breach of statutory duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to contravention of 
specific rules made by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such  rule in place at the time of the events Mr P complains about was COBS  9.2.1(1)R, which 
said:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation,  is suitable 
for its client.
Mr P was a private person  under section  150(1)  of FSMA and a private customer under  COB 5.3.5R. 
Broadly, those  terms covered all natural persons   subject  to some exceptions. I am satisfied that no 
exceptions applied to Mr P  he was not a firm, and he was not carrying  out any regulated activities 
by way of business. He was simply an ordinary consumer.
That means that if Mr P suffered a loss as a result  of a rule breached by PSL,  he would have a right of 
action against PSL for breach of statutory duty.  He would  have no such  right against Mr H, because  
he was not a firm.
were the acts complained of done  in carrying out a regulated activity?
As discussed, regulated  activities are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the RAO)  and include advising on the merits of buying  or selling a particular  investment 
which is a security  or a relevant investment  (article 53 RAO), and making arrangements for another 
person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).    
Ref: DRN717393917I am satisfied  that HNIS arranged  and advised  on the pension switch to the SIPP and the Harlequin  
investment. That is Mr P's recollection, and documents I have seen (set out later in this decision)  
indicate that HNIS was corresponding  on Mr Ps behalf with the transferring  pension  scheme and the 
new SIPP provider (GPC). The documents also refer to the Harlequin investments subsequently 
being set up. The fact that there does not appear to be any recommendations report or fact finding 
being carried out does  not mean that HNIS did not provide advice to Mr P or arrange  the switch and 
subsequent investments.  The evidence strongly indicates it did. 
The SIPP and Mr P's existing pension  were  a security or a relevant investment. The Harlequin 
investments exhibit the qualities of a collective investment  scheme, most probably unregulated 
collective investment  schemes. But even if they were not, regulated activities took place in relation  to 
the pension schemes, at least. I therefore need  to consider whether  those activities were the acts of 
PSL.
were those  acts the acts of the authorised firm, PSL?   
When considering if the acts complained  about are those of PSL I have taken note of the following  
documents: 
Ref: DRN717393918A letter dated 27 January  2009  from HNIS to Abbey  Life, requesting details of Mr Ps pension. 
A letter dated 10 August 2009 from Mr H of HNIS to Abbey  Life requesting details of Mr Ps 
pension. The letter  uses PSL headed  paper and records that HNIS is a trading style of PSL.  
The letter  also encloses  a, Transfer of Servicing Request form which  directs Abbey Life to 
make Mr H of PSL responsible  for any servicing and directs any income  or fees in respect of 
the pension to be paid to it. 
A letter from Abbey  Life dated  17 August  2009 to Mr H of PSL supplying pension information. 
A letter dated 27 August 2009 from HNIS to Abbey Life. This asks for information  about  Mr 
Ps pension  and states that he is considering  transferring. It asks for the documentation to 
arrange that. The letter uses PSL headed paper  and records that HNIS is a trading style of 
PSL.  
A letter dated 23 December 2009 from Abbey Life to Mr H of PSL supplying a pension  
transfer value and transfer documents.
A GPC Harlequin  property questionnaire  dated 6 January 2010 for Mr P. The Adviser Name 
section carries a Peter H, PSL stamp.
A verification of identity  form for Mr P dated 25 January 2010.  Identity is verified by Mr H and, 
under Details of Introducing  Firm , PSL is recorded.
A letter dated 28 April 2010 from Mr H of HNIS to GPC enclosing a GPC  SIPP application  and 
other documents including, 3 x Harlequin  Contracts for SIPP  Purchase . The letter uses PSL 
headed paper and records that HNIS is a trading style of PSL.  
A GPC SIPP application form for Mr P. This records the Financial Adviser  for the SIPP as 
PSL and the form carries a stamp indicating Mr H of PSL is the financial adviser. The email 
address is (Mr H)@thinkpositive.co,uk. It also records that the financial adviser is to receive 
an ongoing fee in respect of the SIPP. The, Intended  Activity recorded  is, Acquisition of 
overseas commercial property via Harlequin.
A letter dated 28 April 2010 from Mr H of HNIS to GPC.  The letter said it enclosed, 3 SIPP  
contracts for signature by Guardian  and onward  transmission to Harlequin.  The letter uses 
PSL headed paper  and records that HNIS is a trading style pf PSL.   
A GPC Harlequin  property questionnaire  dated 28 April 2010 for Mr P. The contact details on 
the form were Mr H, email (Mr H)@thinkpositive.co,uk.
A letter dated 10 May 2010 from GPC to Mr H of PSL enclosing  a Harlequin property receipt. 
A letter dated 25 May 2010 from GPC to Mr H of PSL. This enclosed  a completed SIPP 
contract for Mr P. 
Mr P says that he had known Mr H for a number  of years before he advised  him to switch  his Abbey 
Life pension to the SIPP and invest in Harlequin  property investments  in 2009/2010  the switch  and 
investments occurring  in 2010. Approximately  £100,000 was switched from Mr Ps Abbey Life pension 
to the GPC  SIPP. Mr P says that the reason for the pension switch  was so that investments could be 
made in Harlequin.  
Ref: DRN717393919It is clear from the documentation  that Mr H was involved  in the pension switch and subsequent 
investments in Harlequin. He obtained  the information about  Mr Ps existing pension,  submitted the 
documents so that the switch could be made and SIPP set up and also submitted the documents so 
that the investments could  be made. The documents indicate he was the financial adviser involved. 
Given the evidence I am persuaded that Mr Ps version  of events  is more likely correct  in that Mr H 
advised him to make  the switch and make the investments.      
In 2009 and 2010 Mr H was a registered individual  or self-employed agent of PSL. His business, 
HNIS, was a trading style of PSL and recorded on the FCA Financial Database as such. Mr H is 
recorded on the FCA Register as CF30 Customer, representing PSL from 2007 to 2011. He is not 
recorded as being authorised by or representing another business when the switch and investments  
took place. 
Mr P has said that at all times throughout the application and investment process, Mr H held himself 
out to be a part of PSL.
Mr P has said that:
When this investment was first made, a deciding  factor  was that it was being  handled by PSL, and 
the size and reputation of the company, especially with the size of the investment,  was the key factor 
in entering into it. If this had not been  the case, I would not have  proceeded.
All the correspondence and documents  I have  seen indicate or record that Mr H was acting as a PSL 
adviser in respect of the pension switch to the SIPP and Harlequin investments.  The application 
documents for the SIPP record that and his letters to Abbey Life and GPC are as representing PSL.  
Mr H instructed Abbey  Life to designate that he, as a PSL adviser,  take over the servicing of Mr Ps 
pension and receive income or fees in relation to it. 
When giving advice of this nature or arranging  for a pension switch and investments to take place, 
there would  normally be some form of fact finding documentation completed by the adviser, setting  
out the customers circumstances, needs and objectives. And there would  normally be a document 
setting out why the advice or recommendation had been given. I have not seen such documents  in 
this case  and Mr P says he was not supplied  with any such documents. 
Having said that, I am persuaded, as discussed, that Mr H gave Mr P advice that he should  switch  his 
pension and make the investments. And, given  the documentation I have discussed, I am persuaded  
that he held himself out as an adviser  of PSL when  he did so. I have not seen any evidence  that Mr H 
was representing another business.   
However PSL says it does  not accept responsibility for Mr Hs/HNISs actions here because the SIPP 
provider was not a business  that HNIS was permitted to recommend under its representative  
agreement with PSL. Any actions HNIS took in respect of that would fall outside  its agreement. It also 
says that Harlequin was similarly not permitted under its agreement. It has said that it cannot  trace  
any commission  payment made to it in respect of the SIPP and has no record of Mr P. It says that the 
SIPP application was made without its knowledge and Mr H acted  outside of his contract  with PSL. 
what did PSL authorise Mr H to do?
Agency is a relationship  between  two parties where  they agree  that one will act on behalf of the other 
so as to affect its relations with third parties.  The one on whose behalf  acts are to be done is called 
the principal.  The one who is to act is called  the agent.   In other words the principal authorises the 
agent to act on its behalf.   
The creation of that authority can take a number of forms.  And it is usual for the authority to be 
limited in nature.
The law recognises different forms of agency. 
Ref: DRN717393920In this case there is a written  agency  agreement which  gives express  or actual  authority to Mr H.
It is the case that an agent  also has implied authority to do what is necessary  for, or ordinarily  
incidental to, the effective execution of his express authority.
actual authority
Paragraph 2.1 of the agency  agreement between PSL and Mr H said:
The company hereby  appoints  the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for the new Contracts, for submission to 
the Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
Contracts is defined as:
The Contracts  for the products entered into or to be entered into, by the client, with the 
Institutions.
And Institution is defined as: 
Any insurance  or assurance company, life office, unit trust manager, fund manager, 
stockbroker, building  society, bank, finance house or other financial  institution.
Taken in isolation paragraph 2.1 seems to say the agent is only appointed to introduce applications  
for new contracts for PSL approved products.  
However the agency  agreement  is a contract and, as always, the whole  contract  has to be considered 
in order to interpret its meaning.  Other relevant or potentially relevant  clauses include:
Paragraph 2.4:
The relationship between the Company and the Registered Individual  shall be strictly that of 
principal and Registered Individual and not in any way that of employer and employee.  The 
Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations of the Registered 
Individual in the course of carrying out the business of the Agency hereby created, or in the 
course of performance  of duties hereby  contracted,  but only to the extent that it would be 
responsible at common law or by virtue of any statutory enactment  or regulation, or by virtue 
of the Rules of any organisation (including  FSA) of which the Company is member  for the 
time being.  In particular, the Company shall not be bound by acts of the Registered  Individual 
which exceed  the authority granted under the provision  of the Agreement or by fraudulent  
acts of the Registered Individual  or the Registered Individuals staff.
Paragraph 3.1:
Required a Registered Individual to be registered with the FSA. 
Paragraph 4.3:
Required the Registered Individual to conduct  business on PSL terms of business - which  the 
Registered Individual must supply to every client. 
Paragraph 10.1:
Required the Registered Individual to conduct  himself in adherence to the FSA rules.
Paragraph 10.4:
Ref: DRN717393921Prohibited the Registered Individual from procuring  persons to enter into agreements 
otherwise than through PSL agency.
 
Paragraph 10.7:
Any act or omission of the Registered Individual  shall be treated  as an act or omission of the 
Company.  It is therefore  imperative that the Registered Individual adheres to the strict rules 
laid down by the FSA and the Companys procedures manuals.
Paragraph 14.:
The Registered  Individual agreed to indemnify PSL if it incurred any claims or liability in 
respect of the Registered  Individuals acts or omissions. 
So amongst other things,  its the case that the agent is appointed to do business with clients in 
accordance with PSL terms of business  and the registered individual is required to carry on the 
business in accordance with the FSAs rules and PSLs compliance procedures. 
As mentioned  above, at the time of the events complained about in this case, as required by 
paragraph 3.1 of the Agency  agreement Mr H was registered on the FSA register.  It showed that he 
was approved  to perform  the controlled  function CF30  Customer with PSL from November  2007 to 
December 2011. 
The PSL Compliance Manual recorded that PSL was authorised to advise on investments (amongst 
other things).
It is therefore  clear to me, taking all the above into account, that, subject to conditions ,  
Mr H was appointed to advise on investments on behalf of PSL and not just to introduce applications  
for new policies.
Registered individuals such as Mr H were appointed as, and held out by PSL, as independent 
financial advisers able to advise on investments as authorised and regulated by the FSA.  
As discussed, advising  a person in their capacity as an investor  or potential  investor on the merits of 
their buying or selling an investment covered by the FSMA  2000 is a regulated  activity under Article 
53 of the Regulated Activities Order 2000.
Agreeing to carry on certain  regulated  activities including  advising on investments  is itself a regulated 
activity (under  Article  64).
And arranging deals in investments is a regulated activity under Article 25.
Carrying on such regulated activities by way of business is a criminal offence  unless the person doing  
so is authorised (or exempt  but that is not relevant  here). PSL was authorised by the FSA to carry 
on all of those activities at the time of the disputed  advice.  And it was subject to the FSAs  rules when  
carrying on those activities.
Without going  into too much  detail giving compliant  investment  advice involves  getting  to know a 
client and reviewing  their financial position, their objectives and attitude to risk and then giving advice 
that is suitable to those  circumstances.  In broad  terms this process  is set out in COBS 9.2 and the 
PSL Compliance Manual.  
When PSL agrees  to give investment advice  (which it gives through its registered  individuals)  it 
cannot know  at the outset what advice it will give.  First  PSL (through its registered  individual) must 
assess the clients current  financial  position,  objectives, attitude to risk and so on.  When it has done 
Ref: DRN717393922that, suitable investment advice from PSL (given through its registered  individual) might, depending 
on the circumstances discovered,  be:
1.Invest money that is not currently invested in a new plan approved  by PSL.
2.Sell an existing  investment and buy a new plan approved by PSL because it is in the clients  
best interest to sell and to buy.
3.Do not sell an existing investment to buy a new plan approved by PSL because  it is not in the 
clients interest to sell and to buy.  
4.Do not buy a particular approved PSL investment the client is interested in because  it is not 
suitable for the client (because it is too high risk or not currently affordable for example)  and 
so not in the clients  best interest to buy.
Each one of these possible scenarios involves regulated investment advice by PSL (given  through  the 
registered individual) and, as I have said, PSL does not know which  of those or other possible 
scenarios will play out at the start of the advice  process. And three of those scenarios involve more 
than introducing new applications for new plans.  And the second and third might involve advising on 
the merits of selling plans PSL has not approved.
If a PSL registered individual was only authorised by PSL to introduce applications  for new plans 
possible scenarios 2, 3 and 4 would seem  to involve  the registered individual acting unlawfully.  So 
this possible restricted interpretation of the authority given by PSL to its registered  individual cant be 
right.  
In my view it must be the case that the registered individuals appointment is wider  than only 
introducing applications for new approved contracts.   In my view this is either:
the meaning of clause 2.1 when read with clause  2.4, and the rest of the agreement, and/or
or it is the actual or implied authority from all the processes set out in PSL own requirements 
on its registered individuals as result of the FSA conduct  of business rules it is subject to.
In saying  all that, I do not say that the appointment of the registered individual is unconditional.   I only 
say at this point that the authority goes wider  than only introducing applications  for new approved 
contracts.  In my view the registered individuals authority does  include giving  advice on the merits of 
selling existing investments in some  circumstances.
So it is my view, in this case, that PSLs authority  to Mr H did potentially include advice  on the merits 
of selling  existing  investments as well as the introduction of applications for new contracts. 
did the agents express  authority cover the advice in this case?
An agent is required to act in the interests of the principal.  This principle is reflected in, for example, 
paragraphs 4.3 and 10.7 of the agency agreement quoted above. It seems the agent is likely to have 
breached those terms in this case. 
It is therefore  my view that the agent was not acting within the express authority in relation to the 
disputed advice.  
That is not however the end of the matter.  There is also the matter of apparent  (or ostensible) 
authority. 
Ref: DRN717393923apparent authority
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual authority of his agent. But if the agent acts 
outside of that actual  authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the agents acts if 
those acts were within the agents apparent  authority. This is the case even if the agent was acting 
fraudulently and in furtherance of his own interest  provided the agent is acting within his apparent 
authority. 
This type of authority was described  by Diplock  LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties 
(Mangal) Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship between  the principal and the 
contractor created by a representation, made by the principal  to the contractor, intended to be 
and in fact acted  upon  by the contractor,  that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the 
principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent"  authority, so as to render 
the principal  liable  to perform any obligations imposed upon him by such contract.  To the 
relationship so created  the agent is a stranger. He need  not be (although he generally  is) 
aware of the existence of the representation but he must not purport to make the agreement 
as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from asserting that 
he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter 
into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agent's  actual authority is. All that the contractor  can know is what  they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority...
Although Diplock LJ referred to contractors, the law on apparent  authority applies to any third party 
dealing with the agents of a principal  including a consumer such  as Mr P.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot  arise  on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. For 
apparent authority to operate, there must be a representation by the principal that the agent has its 
authority to act. As Diplock LJ said in Freeman, 
The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principal's business with other persons. By so doing the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principal's  business has usually "actual" authority to 
enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999], Parker J quoted the relevant principle as stated in Article 74 in 
Bowstead and Reynolds  on Agency 16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
Ref: DRN717393924In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018], Jacobs J endorsed Parker Js 
approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSS's 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case  was not concerned  
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin , the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas SA [1985], Lord Keith 
said:
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
must the third party  rely on the representation?
The principals representation that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf will only fix the 
principal with liability  to the third party (here Mr P) if the third party relied  on that representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is sufficient 
evidence of reliance on the representation  as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency  21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
Ref: DRN717393925respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts of that case, Jacobs J placed weight on the fact the majority of the claimants 
had never  heard of the defendant, Sense  Network, and that those who had heard of it made  their 
decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery which they later said 
contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes  clear, whether or not a claimant has relied on a representation is dependent 
on the circumstances of that individual case. 
Here, I must consider  whether, on the facts  of this individual  case:
PSL made a representation to Mr P that Mr H had PSLs authority to act on its behalf in 
carrying out the activities he now complains about, and
Mr P relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he now complains about.
Having considered  the law in this area, including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far as 
representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether PSL placed Mr H in a position which  would 
objectively generally  be regarded as carrying its authority to enter into transactions  such  as the 
pension switch and investments in Harlequin.  Put another way, did PSL knowingly  or even 
unwittingly  lead Mr P to believe that Mr H was authorised to conduct business on its behalf of a type 
(namely, carrying out the pension switch  and arranging  the investments) that he was not in fact 
authorised to conduct?
I also need  to decide whether Mr P relied  on any representation PSL made. Having  considered  
Parker Js comments  in Martin, if Mr P proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice Mr H 
was acting  in every  respect as the agent  of PSL with authority  from PSL so to act, then this suggests  I 
should conclude  that Mr P relied  on PSL representation.
did PSL represent to Mr P that Mr H had the relevant authority?
Mr P has explained that Mr H was introduced to him by another financial adviser a few years  before 
the advice in question  was given. He says he was introduced to him as an adviser representing PSL.   
As I have discussed I am persuaded  that Mr H did give advice to switch Mr Ps pension and provide 
investment advice on behalf  of PSL before the events complained about  in 2009/2010.
It is not clear that Mr P received a terms of business agreement in respect of the disputed  advice.  
Nevertheless it is my view that in principle an agent of PSL was authorised to:
advise on the setting up of investment such as the Harlequin investments
advise on the switch of the pension to the SIPP.  
These activities were provided  for in PSL procedures.  None of these  activities were  in themselves 
novel or exceptional or unexpected  for an IFA.  These are activities that fall within the class of 
activities that IFAs are usually  authorised to do. Any restrictions on the authority to give such  advice 
(such as set out by PSL) would not have been visible to Mr P.  So for example he would not know that 
an adviser should only recommend approved investments, should  obtain clearance from PSL before 
giving certain  types of advice  and should  present  the advice in certain  ways.
PSL placed  Mr H in a position which  would,  in the outside world, generally be regarded as having  
authority to carry out the acts Mr H complains about.  
PSL authorised  Mr H to give pensions and investment advice on its behalf. 
Ref: DRN717393926PSL arranged for Mr H to appear  on the FSA register in respect of PSL.   And Mr H was approved to 
carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed  advice.
PSL held itself out as an independent financial adviser  that gave advice and offered products from the 
whole of the market after assessing a clients needs. No information  was provided to clients or 
potential clients about the agent being authorised  in relation to approved products only.  
It was in PSLs interest for the general  public, including Mr P to understand that it was taking 
responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers. I am satisfied that PSL intended Mr H to 
act on its representation that Mr H was its financial adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of PSLs  business. It said in its 
Terms of Business that its partners  would give impartial, independent  financial advice . I do not see 
how PSL could have carried out its business activities at all if the general public had not treated  
registered individuals like Mr H as having  authority to give investment advice on behalf of PSL.
did Mr P rely on PSLs  representation? 
Mr P has said clearly that he understood Mr H to be acting as a PSL adviser when he gave the advice 
about the pension  switch and Harlequin  investments. As discussed, in my view it is highly likely  that 
Mr H did represent to Mr P that he was giving  advice and providing his services  as an adviser of PSL. 
I have not seen any evidence that would indicate he was representing  any other party or entity. 
This seems to be a straightforward  matter  of a client dealing with their existing  PSL adviser  because  
he was a PSL adviser.
 
There is no evidence  to show  that Mr P knew or should have known  that Mr H was acting in any 
capacity other than a PSL adviser.
In my view,  on balance, the evidence does  indicate  that Mr P proceeded  on the basis that Mr H was 
acting in every respect as the agent of PSL with authority  from PSL so to act.
should PSL to be required  to bear  any losses  caused by Mr H?
The courts have taken into account whether it is just to require a principal  to bear a loss caused by 
the wrongdoing  of his agent. I have considered  whether  it is just to hold PSL responsible  for any 
detriment Mr P has suffered  as result  of the advice  he received from Mr H. I think  it is just to hold PSL 
responsible for the consequences of its putting Mr H in the position where Mr P could suffer loss as a 
result of his actions.  In  particular, I note:
PSL was in a position  to monitor Mr Hs behaviour.  
PSL did not tell Mr P it had put any of the limits on his authority that it says are relevant  here.
PSLs agency agreement acknowledges  that it will be held responsible for the wrongs  of its 
agents and includes  and requires the agent to provide it with an indemnity in respect of any 
losses etc it suffers as result of such wrongs.
So overall I consider that it is just for PSL to be required to bear any losses caused by any wrong  
doing done by Mr H whilst  carrying on the a controlled  function  assigned to him by PSL.
vicarious liability
It is also appropriate  for me to consider  whether  PSL is vicariously liable for the actions of Mr H  
independently of whether  apparent authority  also operated such  as to fix PSL with liability  for the 
actions of its agents. 
Ref: DRN717393927what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common law principle of strict,  no-fault liability for wrongs  committed by another 
person. 
Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The classic example  of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability  is the employment relationship, but Mr H was not 
an employee  of PSL. However, the employment  relationship  is not the only relationship capable of 
giving rise to vicarious liability.
Broadly, there is a two stage  test to decide whether vicarious liability can apply:
Stage one is to ask whether there is a sufficient relationship between  the wrongdoer and the 
principal (Cox v Ministry  of Justice  [2016]).
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable 
(Mohamud  v WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016]).
There is some uncertainty  in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should  be applied. I note that in 
Frederick v PSL [2018]  the Court of Appeal explicitly  declined to decide whether the test in Cox 
applied to PSLs relationship  with another of its registered individuals. 
If it were  the case that vicarious liability  could  never have anything  to do with principals and agents 
then I consider it likely that the Court of Appeal would have  simply said so. But in any event, the 
relationship between  Mr H and PSL was not just an agency relationship. Mr H was registered with the 
FSA as an approved person able to carry out regulated  activities  on PSLs behalf, and this complaint 
is about  the regulated activities  of advising on and arranging deals in investments.  I consider that it 
would be wrong for me to simply ignore or set aside the regulatory background in reaching  my 
decision.  
I am not aware of any case  law concerning the exact set of circumstances that Mr P complains  about. 
But that does not prevent  me from applying the law as I understand  it to be. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
the words used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a statute. Where 
a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been the subject of an authoritative  
judicial decision, it may be valuable to stand back and consider whether the imposition  of 
vicarious liability would be fair, just and reasonable.
Had Mr P referred this matter to a court instead of to the ombudsman service, I consider that the court  
is likely  to have chosen to apply the approach  suggested by Lord Reed. I will therefore  do the same.
the stage one test
It is now accepted that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer  and employee, may be 
capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
The result [of the approach  adopted by Lord Phillips  in Various Claimants v Catholic Child 
Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a relationship other than one of 
employment is in principle  capable of giving  rise to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully 
done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part of the business activities 
carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct  of a recognisably  independent business of his own or of a third 
party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
Ref: DRN717393928I am satisfied  that giving advice to Mr P to switch his pension and then invest in Harlequin  was 
carrying on activities as an integral part of the business activities carried on by PSL. I say that 
because:
At the time, PSLs stated  purpose was To help our clients,  Understand, Protect and Increase 
their Assets  (Terms of Business).  I consider that the provision of, and subsequent  
implementation of, investment advice is an integral part of fulfilling that purpose.  
PSLs business model was that it gave  financial advice itself, through  its Partners. As set out 
in its partnership code , those Partners promised to give impartial, independent financial 
advice (Terms  of Business).  
PSLs status as an authorised firm meant that it was not in breach  of the general prohibition  
when it gave investment  advice  to members of the public.  So, when its Partners gave 
investment advice on behalf of PSL, carrying out PSLs  business  activities, those Partners 
were not in breach of the general prohibition  either.
Mr H was a PSL Partner.  PSL had given  him permission to carry out the controlled function of 
CF 30 Customer on behalf of PSL. PSL had therefore engaged  Mr H to carry  out activities 
that were an integral part of its business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right - set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although  the guidance  was published  
some time after the events  Mr P complains about, the relevant parts of the legislation (in respect of 
permissions to give regulated  financial  advice)  have not changed  substantively. I therefore consider  it 
appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in PERG, which says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee .
PSL clearly intended Mr H to fall outside the general  prohibition when acting on PSLs  behalf in giving  
and implementing investment advice.  As Ive said, I consider that the only way in which Mr H could 
have fallen outside the general prohibition would  be on the basis that he was carrying  on PSLs 
business rather  than his own.  In my view,  the guidance therefore  provides support for the contention 
that Mr Hs relationships with PSL were very similar to employment relationships.  
Further, in allowing  Mr H to give investment advice on its behalf, PSL was creating the risk that he 
might make errors  or act negligently in doing  so. PSL assigned to Mr H the customer facing task of 
giving regulated financial  advice to PSLs customers, and it is always possible  for that task to be 
carried out negligently.
PSL had arranged for Mr H to be approved  by the FSA to perform various  controlled functions  in 
relation to regulated  activities  carried on by PSL.  Those controlled functions  which  included the 
giving of regulated investment advice  were activities assigned to Mr H by PSL as part of PSLs 
business. 
the stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely connected with the business  
activities of his principal as to make  it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud,  the test requires a court  to, make an evaluative judgment in each 
case having regard to all the circumstances  and having regard to the assistance provided by previous 
decisions on the facts  of other cases. That is not a precise test, but the courts  have recognised the 
inevitability of imprecision given, the infinite  range of circumstances where  the issue of vicarious  
liability arises .
Ref: DRN717393929In the particular circumstances  of this complaint, I consider that it is just for PSL to be held 
responsible for the actions  Mr P complains about. I note:
Mr H was giving pension and investment advice, completing paperwork and making 
arrangements to put that advice into practice. I consider these  activities are closely connected  
to the business activities of PSL,  a firm which provided  financial advice and arranged  
investment transactions  for its customers.
If PSL is not vicariously liable here, then Mr Ps ability to obtain compensation  would depend 
on whether the PSL Partner he dealt with was an employee of PSL.  In Cox, the court 
suggested it would have been unreasonable  and unfair for the claimants ability to receive 
compensation for the injury she suffered while  working in a prison kitchen to depend on 
whether the worker who injured her was an employee or a prisoner. I consider that argument  
has even more relevance here  at least Mrs Cox is likely to have either  known  or had the 
ability to find out who was an employee and who was a prisoner. But Mr P had no way of 
knowing Mr Hs employment status (I am aware  that Mr Hs agency contract said he had to 
make his status as a registered individual clear  but even if he had done that, the term 
Registered Individual did not imply  anything about his employment status).
The agency contracts say PSL will not be responsible if Mr H acts outside his authority. But 
the contract also says that any act or omission  of the registered individual will be treated  as 
an act of PSL. In my view, those two terms conflict. I do not consider it would be fair for PSL 
to be entitled to rely on one but ignore the other.
PSL received  no benefit from the acts Mr P complains about,  and in particular  it did not 
receive any commission. But as Lord Toulson explained in Mohamud , vicarious  liability  can 
apply even  where an employee  has abused his position in a way that cannot  possibly have 
been of benefit to his employer  such as carrying out a private  fraud or assaulting  a 
customer. In Frederick, PSL was found not to be vicariously liable  despite having  received 
commission. The commission  issue is not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions  I have  reached are different to the conclusions reached by the 
court in Frederick . In that case, PSL was found not to be vicariously liable for the conduct of a named 
Mr Warren. I have not seen  the whole of Mr Warrens agency contract with PSL, but from the sections 
quoted in the judgment  the terms in his contract appear to be identical to the terms in Mr Hs contract.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts here that I do not consider that the same 
outcome is inevitable  in this complaint. In particular, I note:   
In Frederick, the claimants were  approached  by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a registered 
individual of PSL. Mr Qureshi induced  them to invest in a property scheme, which  he was 
running jointly with Mr Warren. The claimants, had no personal dealings with [Mr] Warren  
and did not meet him or receive any written communications from himthere was no 
semblance of an advice process. Here, Mr P had personal dealings with Mr H, PSLs 
registered individual. He met with Mr H who provided him with advice. Mr H carried  out 
business activities of a type that had been specifically assigned  to him by PSL,  and which  he 
could only (lawfully)  perform on behalf of PSL.
 
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent  mortgage  applications for loans on behalf of 
the claimants. Mr P has made no such allegation of fraud. He only complains about the 
suitability of the advice. Their allegation is one of negligence and/or breach of statutory duty. 
He does  not say as such  that Mr H was dishonest. There is therefore no need  for me to 
consider whether PSL would have been vicariously liable for any dishonest acts by Mr H.
Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage applications  in the way he did because  he 
was an agent of PSL.  But the claimants in Frederick did not say they had suffer[ed] any loss 
Ref: DRN717393930through the actual re-mortgaging or their receipt of monies from [the lender]. Instead, they 
suffered losses only when  they handed the money over to Mr Warren  (or to the company of 
which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi were directors).  In contrast, Mr P says he suffered losses 
as a direct result of the advice given to him by Mr H, in his capacity as a PSL financial 
adviser, to switch his pension and invest in Harlequin.  
what if the tests in Cox and Mohamud  are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and Mohamud are not 
applicable to Mr H, PSL,  and the specific acts Mr P complains about. The applicability of those  tests  
to agency relationships is unclear, as is their applicability to some or all of the reliance-based torts, 
possibly including negligent mis-statement. 
Even if those  specific tests  are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a court to 
consider whether PSL is vicariously liable for the actions of Mr H. The earlier cases, including  
Armagas and the Christian Brothers  case [2012], make clear that justice is the courts  overriding 
concern in such matters.  Where the claimant and the defendant are both innocent parties, the court 
will consider whether the circumstances under which  the wrongdoer committed his wrong  were  such 
as to make it just for the defendant  to bear the loss.
Bearing in mind  the regulatory position, I consider that in the particular circumstances of this case it is 
just to require PSL to bear any loss caused by negligent investment advice provided by Mr H.
From a public  policy point  of view, one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for the 
protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which  both FSMA and 
the FSA gave  effect  to that protection. Mr H was a PSL approved person. In view of section 59(1) of 
FSMA, I consider  that when Mr H carried  out the regulated activity  of a pension  switch, advising on 
investments, and arranging deals in investments,  those activities  were the activities of PSL.  PSL is 
clearly responsible for its own activities. 
I see no support  in FSMA  or anywhere  else  for the belief that PSLs  responsibility for its approved 
persons was dependent  on the precise nature of its contracts  with those people (agency/non-agency). 
Similarly, I do not see anything to suggest PSLs responsibility depends  on whether  the approved 
persons conduct is classified in terms of one type of tort (reliance-based) or another. I would  be 
surprised if a court were  to take the view that such distinctions were relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.
I therefore  consider  that PSL is vicariously liable  for the acts Mr P complains  about regardless of 
whether Mr H carried out those acts with apparent authority on behalf of PSL (However, as I have 
said I consider  that Mr H did in fact act with PSLs apparent authority when they carried  out the acts 
complained of.) 
statutory responsibility  under  section 150 of FSMA
For the reasons  Ive given above, I am satisfied that when Mr H gave the advice complained of, and 
when Mr H arranged the associated pension  switch  and deals in investments,  he was acting in his 
capacity as a PSL approved  person for the purpose of carrying on PSLs  regulated business. He was 
not carrying  on a business  of his own.
That means PSL is subject to the Conduct of Business (COBS) suitability rules in respect of Mr Hs 
advice. If Mr Hs advice was not suitable, then (subject to the recognised  defences) PSL is 
responsible in damages to Mr P under the statutory cause  of action provided by section 150 of FSMA. 
I therefore  consider  that section 150 of FSMA provides  an alternative route by which PSL is 
responsible for the acts complained of.
In summary and having considered all of the circumstances  here, as well as the legal authorities, I am 
provisionally satisfied that: 
Ref: DRN717393931PSL represented  to Mr P that Mr H had PSLs authority both to advise on the pension switch 
and the investments in Harlequin.
 
In addition  or in the alternative  PSL is vicariously  liable for the acts Mr P complains about. 
PSL also has statutory responsibility under section 150 of FSMA for the acts complained 
about.
I am therefore satisfied that PSL is responsible  for the acts Mr P complains  about. Even if I am wrong 
about one or two of the above three  conclusions,  I still consider that the third means  that Mr Ps 
complaint about PSL falls within  my jurisdiction.
my provisional  findings  on merits
When considering all the available  evidence and arguments in order  to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint  I have also formed a provisional  view about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr P owned a hotel and restaurant business when the switch took place. He has confirmed that for 
the last five years he has earned around £10,000 a year.  He has confirmed  that he does not have 
any other investments.   
So Mr P didnt  have any investments of an aggressive or high risk nature. In fact it seems he had no 
experience of risk based  investments at all.
The Harlequin  investments were off plan unregulated speculative overseas  property investments. 
They were likely Unregulated Collective Investment  Schemes (UCIS).  They  were  high risk and the 
investor faced  the real possibility  of losing  all their money. Because  they were unregulated Mr P did 
not benefit  from the protection afforded by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
Mr Ps circumstances do not indicate that he was prepared to lose, or could afford to lose,  all his 
money in his pension scheme. They also do not indicate that he was suited to the risks these 
investments presented. 
Mr Ps investment experience was very limited and does not suggest that he was an experienced 
investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or would  not be reliant on PSL to give 
him suitable advice and consider his best interests. I have not seen that PSL gave Mr Ps any material 
guidance about the risks of the Harlequin investments, such  as I have discussed. 
My understanding is that the value of Mr Ps pension  funds was about  £100,000.  The material  issue is 
that the majority of that money was designated for investing in Harlequin. That put most  of his pension 
savings at risk of total loss (which is what is likely to have happened). 
As discussed Mr H knew  that Mr P was intending to invest his pension funds in Harlequin overseas 
property. He seemingly obtained very little detail about Mr P or his financial situation. 
In my view Mr H and PSL did not meet  their requirements  under COBS 9 to take reasonable steps to 
ensure suitability  or obtain enough information so as to advise Mr P appropriately. As previously 
discussed, that would include taking into account what investments the switch was facilitating. It could 
not in my view have  assessed whether these investments and the overall arrangement of SIPP and 
investment was suitable  for Mr P given the lack of information it had. It should not have agreed to 
carry out the arrangement  of the SIPP in this situation. 
If it had carried out appropriate fact finding and assessment of Mr P's situation and the Harlequin 
investments then it would have known  these  investments  were  not suitable for him. I have not seen 
that it was explained to Mr P that Harlequin  was unregulated (and what that meant in terms of 
Ref: DRN717393932regulatory protections), or explain all the risks of unregulated off plan overseas  property investments 
and that Mr P could lose all his money.  This was particularly important because Mr P was investing 
the majority  of his pension benefits. 
       
Clearly, the evidence indicates that Mr Ps was not the more sophisticated  and professional type of 
investor for which UCIS would be suitable; the risks of the investment are far higher than were  
suitable for him and they were of a nature that was not appropriate for him.  
Bearing all this background  in mind, I do not believe there is any persuasive evidence  that it was 
appropriate for Mr P to take the risks of switching and investing in Harlequin, which put his retirement 
income and benefits at much  greater risk. 
how to put things right
should PSL pay compensation? 
Im aware that a party involved with Harlequin  Property had been charged with fraud offences. A court  
might therefore conclude that Mr Ps loss didnt flow directly from PSLs  unsuitable advice. And on this 
basis, a court might not require  PSL to compensate Mr P  notwithstanding the clearly unsuitable 
advice. 
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position  a court  might take.
It may be there has been a break  in the chain of causation. That might mean it wouldnt be fair to 
say that all of the losses suffered flowed  from the unsuitable  advice. That will depend on the particular 
circumstances of the case. No liability  will arise for an adviser who has given suitable advice even if 
fraud later takes  place. But the position is different where  the consumer wouldnt have been in the 
investment in the first place without the unsuitable advice. In that situation, it may be fair to assess 
compensation on our usual  basis  aiming to put the consumers in the position they would have been 
in if theyd  been given  suitable advice.
In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. This is notwithstanding  arguments about  a break  in the chain of causation  
and the remoteness  of the loss from the (poor)  advice given. I am satisfied that Mr P would  not have 
made the Harlequin property  investments  had it not been for the failings of PSLs appointed 
representative. If the adviser had given Mr P suitable advice, the Harlequin property  investment would  
not have been made. And I consider that the advice given by the adviser  completely disregarded Mr 
Ps interests.  As a direct  result of PSLs representatives failure to give suitable  advice, Mr Ps 
invested the majority of his pension into a specialised,  unregulated investment with a limited track  
record.  
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold PSL responsible for the whole of the loss suffered  by Mr 
P. I am not asking PSL to account for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of its failings. I am 
satisfied those  failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That other parties might 
also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able to determine. However, 
that fact should not impact  on Mr Ps right to compensation from PSL for the full amount of his loss.
calculating compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put 
Mr P as close to the position he would probably  now be in if he had not been given unsuitable  advice.
I think  with suitable advice Mr P would have kept his existing pension. But its unlikely to be possible 
for PSL to reinstate Mr P into his previous  pension  scheme. 
There are also a number of possibilities and unknown  factors in making an award. While I understand 
Harlequin will allow PSL to take over the investment from Mr P, the involvement of third parties   the 
Ref: DRN717393933SIPP provider and Harlequin Property  means much of this is beyond  this service  or the businesss 
control. 
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this service 
may make. The facts suggest its unlikely that the property(ies) will be completed and unlikely  that the 
contract and any future payments would be enforceable   but I cant  be certain of that.
While its complicated to put Mr P back in the position he would have been in if suitable  advice had 
been given, I think its fair that Mr P is compensated now. I dont think we should wait and determine 
each and every possibility  before making  an award. What is set out below is a fair way of achieving  
this. 
In summary, PSL should:
6.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Ps previous pension plan, as at date of my final 
decision, if it not been  transferred to the SIPP.  
7.Obtain  the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Ps SIPP, including any 
outstanding charges. 
8.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ps SIPP  so that the transfer value is increased by 
the amount calculated. This payment should take account  of any available tax relief  and the 
effect of charges.
In addition, PSL should:
9.Pay any future fees owed  by Mr P to the SIPP, for the next five years.
10.Pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each point in further detail below.
2.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Ps previous pension plan if it had not been transferred to 
the SIPP.  That should be the value at the date of my final decision.
PSL should  ask Mr P's former pension provider  to calculate the notional  transfer value that would 
have applied  as at the date of my final decision  had he not transferred his pension but instead 
remained invested. 
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
PSL should  assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would  still have been  
made, and on the same dates
6.Obtain  the transfer value as at the date of my final decision of Mr Ps SIPP, including any 
outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from the 
SIPP and there wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them,  it might be a negative figure. 
7.Pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP  so that the transfer value is increased to equal the amount 
calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.
Ref: DRN717393934If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, PSL should pay it as a cash  sum to him. 
But had it been possible  to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income.  Therefore 
the total amount  should be reduced to notionally allow  for any income  tax that would  otherwise 
have been paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax in 
retirement.
8.Pay any future fees owed  to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had PSL given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr P continues  to 
pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, PSL should take over the investment  to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest  way of 
putting Mr P back in the position he would have been in. But the ownership of the Harlequin property 
investment cant currently be transferred. Its likely that will change  at some point,  but I dont know 
when that will be  there  are a number  of uncertainties. 
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that PSL pays Mr P an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees),  or undertakes 
to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable  period for 
things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, PSL may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking  to give it 
the net amount  of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin property investment in that five 
year period, as well as any other  payment  he may receive from any party as a result of the 
investment. 
That undertaking should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges  on the amount he may receive.  
PSL will need  to meet any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr P to provide an 
undertaking, payment  of the compensation awarded  by this decision may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, PSL wants to keep the SIPP  open,  and to maintain an undertaking  for any future  
payments under the Harlequin property investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees.  
If PSL fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr P should then have the option of trying to cancel the Harlequin 
property contracts to enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, PSL is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr P of any claim  Mr P may have 
against any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Harlequin  property investment.  If PSL 
chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment of compensation  is 
made. PSL must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr P for his consideration and agreement. 
9.Pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr P within 90 
days of the date PSL receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision (should it remain the 
same as this provisional  decision). Further interest must be added  to the compensation amount at the 
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes PSL to pay Mr P this compensation.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000 limit, I may recommend
that the business  pays  the balance.
Provisional Decision and award: I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as
set out above. My provisional  decision  is that PSL should pay Mr P the amount
produced by that calculation - up to a maximum  of £150,000.
Ref: DRN717393935Provisional Recommendation:  If the amount produced  by the calculation of fair
compensation exceeds 150,000, I recommend that PSL pays Mr P the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. PSL doesnt have to do
what I recommend.  Its unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision and go to court  to
ask for the balance.  Mr P may want to get independent  legal advice  before deciding
whether to accepting my final decision  should my decision remain the same as the
provisional decision.
my provisional  decision
I believe this complaint  would fall within my jurisdiction.
I also believe the complaint should be upheld and I intend to order that PSL calculate and pay 
compensation as detailed above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7173939