K821x#15complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV  has declined  a 
claim made under her international medical insurance policy.
background
In March 2018, Mrs L underwent a medical  procedure to treat pain she was experiencing 
which emanated  from a particular part of her back.  The procedure didnt take place in the 
UK, but another  European  country where  Mrs L lived.
Mrs L made a claim on her international medical  insurance policy  to cover the associated 
costs of that procedure.  CIGNA declined that claim on the basis  that:
-prior authorisation  wasnt  given for the treatment;
-the treatment was experimental, investigational or unproven  and, as such, excluded  
under the policy;  and
-the medial advice  showed that the treatment had not completely improved her back  
condition and there remained a residual impairment. 
Mrs L didnt think her claim  had been fairly declined so brought a complaint to us.
Initially our investigator didnt uphold Mrs L complaint;  she didnt think  CIGNA  had 
unreasonably declined the claim on the basis that the procedure  carried  out on Mrs L was 
experimental.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs L provided further information  including letters  
written by two doctors who are specialists in the field of radiology and who are based  in the 
country where the procedure took place.  
In light of this further evidence,  our investigator  upheld the complaint.  She no longer 
considered CIGNAs  decision to decline  the claim was fair and reasonable as she didnt think 
it could reasonably say the treatment was experimental in the country where it took place.  
She also said that, although Mrs L didnt wait for the procedure to be approved,  CIGNA 
should still reconsider the claim subject to the other terms of the policy.
CIGNA disagrees. So the complaint has been  passed to me to look at everything afresh to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. Ill explain 
why.
pre-authorisation:
The customer guide document provides information about the policy. It says prior approval 
should be obtained from CIGNA for all treatment as this: 
Ref: DRN72712132will help ensure your claim is covered under the policy. If you do not get prior 
approval from us, there may be delays in processing  claims,  or we may decline to 
pay all or part of the claim.
There is an exception to this pre-approval  in the event of emergency treatment. Considering 
the definition of emergency treatment  in the policy, Im satisfied the procedure Mrs L 
underwent didnt meet this. It looks like she was diagnosed with the back condition she was 
suffering from at the end of February 2018,  and the treatment didnt take place until 
14 March 2018.  So Mrs L needed to get authorisation from CIGNA beforehand.
Its agreed that the treatment wasnt authorised before it took place. So CIGNA didnt have 
an opportunity to discuss the treatment with Mrs L, or consider whether it would be 
authorised. 
CIGNA also says if a procedure isnt pre-authorised - but its one that it would cover  had 
pre-authorisation been obtained  it would still cover most of the costs being  claimed.  
However, the policyholder (in this case Mrs L) would need to contribute 20%. 
So I dont  think its reasonable to decline the claim simply because Mrs L didnt obtain  prior 
approval.
declining cover:
Ive gone on to consider whether it wouldve been fair and reasonable for CIGNA to have 
declined authorising the treatment   and this ties in with its ultimate decision to decline  the 
claim on the basis that it was excluded under  the policy for being experimental.
The policy terms exclude treatment which  (in the reasonable opinion  of CIGMA) is: 
experimental, is not orthodox, or has not been  proven to be effective . 
It gives some  examples of this.
CIGNA says the procedure Mrs L underwent  wouldnt  have been authorised as it amounted 
to experimental,  investigational  and / or unproven treatment  and wasnt proven to treat the 
area of the back which was causing  Mrs L pain. Its given us its relevant medical  coverage  
policy in support, and this summaries studies where this treatment  has been used. 
Mrs L has given us an article from the pain physician journal in 2015 which  supports the 
treatment Mrs L had for her condition  was commonly used,  and effective. It concludes:  
based  on the present assessment for the management of spinal  facet joint pain, the 
evidence for long-term  improvement is Level II for lumbar and cervical 
radiofrequency neurotomy, and therapeutic facet  joint nerve blocks in the cervical,  
thoracic, and lumbar spine
Further, in response  to our investigators view, weve been given a letter from a Professor of 
Radiology who, for 20 years,  was also the President of the Society of Interventional 
Radiology in the country where the treatment had taken place and where Mrs L lived.  Hes 
also a member of the Executive Committee of CIRSE (Cardiovascular Interventional 
Radiological Society  of Europe).  He says: 
Ref: DRN72712133the characterization from your Insurance Company as experimental of the MSK 
Radiologically-guided Therapeutic  Interventions, is completely inadequate. 
The MSK Interventional Therapies are bibliographically  established globally and 
thousands of published papers for these techniques exist. I have to point once again  
that the term experimental implies complete ignorance of the up-to-date  medicine.
Weve also received a further letter from the President of the Society  of International 
Radiology Neuroradiology and Vascular  Radiology of the country  where the treatment took 
place and Mrs L lives.  He says the treatment which Mr L had on her back was a:
technique  increasingly  performed throughout the globe by all kinds  of spine 
specialists including  interventional  radiologists,  anaesthesiologists, neuro  and 
orthopaedic  surgeons it is not considered an experimental technique; on the 
contrary there is Level II evidence  supporting utilisation of the technique
Both these  letters have been  written  by specialists so Ive placed more weight on whats said 
in these documents rather than the document CIGNA  has given us which explains its policy  
coverage. 
These specialists suggest its a widely  accepted and proven practice to treat the sort of pain 
Mrs L had  and which emanated from a particular part of her back. And as theyre  both 
prominent figures in their field of medical  expertise in the country where the treatment  took 
place - and where  Mrs L lives - I dont think CIGNA  has reasonably declined the claim on the 
basis that its experimental.  Particularly,  as Mrs Ls policy provides international coverage.  
When making this finding Ive also taken  into account what CIGNA says about  only 
considering a claim for this particular treatment if it were deemed to be medically  
necessary.
Its given us its guidelines which sets out this would only be if both of the following criteria 
are met:
- Failure  of at least three (3) months of conservative  therapy (e.g.,  exercise, 
physical methods including physical therapy, chiropractic care, non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs] and/or analgesics)
- Two positive diagnostic  facet joint injections/medial  branch Jb/oc/cs using a 
local anaesthetic as evidenced by 80% pain relief for the duration of the local 
anaesthetic used."
It doesnt look like Mrs L did meet these criteria before undergoing the treatment on her back 
which is the subject  of this complaint (although Mrs L was taking anti-inflammatory and pain 
relief medication). But even if she didnt, the evidence  suggests, globally, this treatment was 
routinely given for the condition Mrs L had  and, particularly, in the country where it took 
place. Theres nothing  to suggest that in that particular country she wouldve needed to have  
explored less evasive treatments (such  as those stipulated in in CIGNAs guidelines) first. 
So, in the circumstances of this particular  complaint,  had CIGNA been  able to discuss  the 
procedure with Mrs L before it had taken place, I dont think  it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable for it to have declined cover  for the treatment on the basis that the criteria hadnt  
been met  or that the treatment was experimental, and excluded under  the policy.  
Ref: DRN72712134It follows that I dont think CIGNA  has fairly and reasonably declined Mrs Ls claim on that 
basis  or because that now that the treatment has taken place, it transpires the treatment 
hasnt been fully effective, and she may require further treatment.  No-one  was to know  that 
at the time.
putting things  right
CIGNA should pay Mrs Ls claim - subject to the remaining terms of the policy   including  
Mrs L making a 20% contribution to the costs, having not received pre-authorisation for the 
treatment. And any excess applicable to the policy. 
On this basis, if Mrs L has already  paid for the treatment,  Mrs L should  give CIGNA 
documentary evidence  of this payment, and within 28 days from getting that, CIGNA should 
reimburse Mrs L (after applying a 20% deduction  and any excess).  CIGNA should  also pay 
8% per year simple  interest* on that amount from the date Mrs L paid for the treatment to the 
date it makes payment.   
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV  should put 
things right by doing what  Ive directed,  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If CIGNA  Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV considers its required  by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income  tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mrs L how much  its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate  showing  this if she asks for one. That way 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7271213