K820x#14Complaint
Ms P complains  that Oakbrook Finance Limited  (trading as Likely  Loans) lent irresponsibly when 
it approved her loan.  Ms P also complains  about  the amount of interest  shes been charged. 
Background
Ms P applied for a loan with Likely  Loans in June 2018. In her application Ms P told Likely  
Loans that she earned £19,500 a year. Likely Loans says it looked at Ms Ps credit  file and 
found she was up to date with her existing commitments. Likely Loans approved  the 
application and released the £3,000  to Ms P on 12 June  2018. The loan term was 36 months 
and the repayment was £181.71. The loan agreement said the total amount repayable, 
including interest,  was £6,541.56. 
Ms P complained about the loan and Likely Loans responded on 5 February 2019. Likely 
Loans said the loan application had passed  its lending assessment. Likely  Loans  said it had 
checked Ms Ps credit file and considered the information she provided in the application 
before deciding whether to proceed. Likely Loans also said the interest Ms P had been 
asked to pay was in line with the loan agreement. As she remained unhappy, Ms P asked 
our service  to look at her complaint. 
The case  was passed to an investigator but he thought Likely  Loans had completed  
reasonable checks before deciding to lend to Ms P. As she didnt agree, Ms Ps complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has two main  concerns. The first is that Likely Loans didnt do enough  to make sure 
her loan was affordable  before deciding  to approve  her application.  The second is about the 
amount of interest  she has been  asked to pay. Ill talk about each in turn. 
Ive looked at the application Ms P made. She told Likely Loans that she was employed with 
an income of £19,500 a year. I think it was reasonable for Likely Loans to rely on the 
information contained within the application and the level of income  given wasnt  unusually 
high. Likely  Loans  also looked at Ms Ps credit  file which showed her other  outstanding  debts  
were well maintained. It didnt find lots of other  open credit  at the time either.  Ive looked at 
Ms Ps credit  file and I can see she did have some open credit when she applied to Likely  
Loans. But the outstanding balance at the time appears to have been affordable in addition  
to the new Likely Loans payments Ms P would be required to make. 
Likely Loans has sent us the results of the application it completed.  I can see Ms Ps loan 
application was approved  by the lenders systems.  Having looked at what Likely  Loans  knew  
about Ms P when  she applied for a loan I think its decision to proceed  was reasonable as the 
repayments appeared affordable. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the checks  Likely 
Loans completed were  proportionate for the type and level of borrowing Ms P applied  for and 
its decision to proceed was reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but I havent been 
persuaded that Likely Loans lent irresponsibly in this case. 
Ref: DRN71145832Ms P has also complained that more  than half the total debt relates to interest  added  to the 
£3,000 she borrowed. Whilst that is the case,  I have to take into account that the level of 
interest is in line with Ms Ps loan agreement with Likely Loans. The loan agreement clearly  
separates the loan amount of £3,000 and the cost of borrowing  at £3,541.56. The loan 
agreement gives a total amount repayable figure  of £6,541.56 so it was always clear  what  
the level of interest  Ms P needed to pay. 
Ms P says its against the rules for businesses to charge borrowers  more  in interest than the 
original loan amount.  But Im not aware  of the rule or regulation Ms P refers to. Lenders have 
to ensure that the level of interest applied to the original loan amount is made clear to the 
borrower before they take the decision to proceed. Im satisfied that the loan agreement does 
that and makes it sufficiently clear  that Ms P would pay back the £3,000  she borrowed plus 
£3,541.66 in interest over the loan term. Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but I havent found 
grounds to tell Likely Loans to refund any of the interest  shes paid or that its made a mistake. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I havent  found that Likely  Loans decision to approve 
Ms Ps loan was irresponsible  and Im satisfied it completed reasonable  checks. Whilst I 
understand Ms P is concerned about the amount of interest shes  been asked to pay, I 
havent found any evidence of a mistake by Likely Loans. As Im satisfied Likely  Loans dealt 
with Ms Ps complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further  action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7114583