K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Forex Capital Markets Limited (FXCM) has operated his 
contracts for differences  (CFD)  trading accounts.
background
Mr M opened a CFD account  with FXCM in early 2017. Later on he opened  another  account 
with the same firm. He traded for a while with some success, but his trading then started to 
lose him money. He added more money  to his account but his losses continued to increase. 
In late 2017 Mr M complained to our service  about  how FXCM had managed  his account. 
While our investigator has been  looking into things Mr Ms complaint has broadened from the 
way he initially described it. Our investigator gave a number of assessments of the complaint 
but overall didnt  think FXCM was responsible for Mr Ms losses.  For clarity, Ill summarise 
the things Mr M has complained about  and our investigators opinion.
Mr M has said:
FXCM  aggressively encouraged him to open an account and trade.
It shouldnt have  allowed him to open an account and didnt assess his 
circumstances properly.
It gave him an account with more leverage than it should have, increasing the 
amount he lost on each  trade.
It breached the FCAs conduct of business (COBS) rules,  particularly  by advising 
Mr M about his trading.
It manipulated the prices on its platform,  causing  Mr M to lose money and his trades 
to close.
When the markets were busy it froze his account  and he wasnt able to trade.
It wouldnt let him deposit money  into his account when he needed to, resulting in 
trades being closed.
Our investigator said:
FXCM  warned Mr M its services  might not be appropriate for him, but he went  ahead  
anyway.
She didnt think there was anything wrong  with the leverage  Mr Ms trades were 
carried out at.
She didnt think FXCM  had given  Mr M advice about which trades to put on.
FXCM  processed Mr Ms deposits  in a reasonable  amount  of time.
If there  were issues with Mr M trading through the website he could have used other  
means like trading over the phone. Shed not seen  anything  to suggest Mr M had 
tried to trade over the phone but hadnt been able to.
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  conclusions and asked for an ombudsman  to decide 
the matter. I issued a provisional decision, in which  I said I didnt think FXCM  was 
responsible for Mr Ms losses. My provisional findings are attached to, and form part of this 
final decision. FXCM responded to say it agreed  with my provisional decision. Mr M said he 
didnt, and provided a detailed response.  In summary he said:
FXCMs own website  said new traders would  be given 50:1 leverage, not 200:1.
Ref: DRN71572042Id not considered that both his accounts were a dealing desk account so he was 
trading against  FXCM.
Id not considered the evidence hed provided, particularly about when he couldnt 
access the platform.
Hed always been able to deposit money  straight away, when he couldnt do so 
FXCM delayed  the payment on purpose to cause his account  to fall into margin 
deficit.
Id not taken into account the regulators rules about what FXCM  ought  to have done 
when opening  his account.
FXCM  had given him trading advice.
FXCM  had been fined  by UK and US regulators in the past for mistreating customers.
Id not taken into account the evidence Mr M provided about his ill health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive not been  persuaded 
to depart from my provisional conclusions, and Ill explain why.
Platform access and price  manipulation
Ive thought about Mr Ms submissions very carefully. I dont underestimate how strongly  he 
feels about his complaint,  and I can assure  him Ive considered  the evidence  and arguments 
hes provided in their entirety.
But I dont think the evidence Mr M has sent us shows  what  he says it does. Hes said FXCM  
stopped him being able to access the platform and manipulated prices, to prevent him 
managing his trades and causing him losses. Im not persuaded thats the case.
I can see there were times when Mr M brought up trade tickets  which  didnt have any 
information or allow him to enter orders.  FXCM  has said it wasnt aware of any issues  with 
its services (save on one particular day). Had there been an issue I would have expected  it 
to affect a number  of FXCMs clients and Ive not seen anything to suggest any other traders  
encountered the same  problems. I find it unlikely  that FXCM would specifically restrict 
Mr Ms ability to use the platform at certain times.
It may be that there  were times when there were connectivity issues at Mr Ms end, or other 
reasons he wasnt able to access the trading platform. Where  I cant  say for certain what  
happened I have  to decide on balance  what  I thinks  more likely to have happened.  And for 
the reasons Ive given I think its unlikely FXCM deliberately prevented Mr M from trading.
Mr M also said FXCM manipulated  prices,  especially at the market close  on a Friday 
evening. I've looked at a sample  of his trades which closed  at these times  for example on 
23 February and 9 March  2018. Having considered the levels of the underlying markets at 
those times  Im satisfied  Mr Ms trades  were  closed at prices  reflective of the underlying  
price and find no evidence FXCM manipulated prices to cause him a loss.
Mr M has sent videos demonstrating  that at certain times at the end of the day he wasnt 
able to enter new orders or close existing positions, while  the market  continued to move and 
leave him at risk of having  his trades closed. This was a feature of FXCMs dealing desk 
service and Im satisfied information about  it was clearly displayed  on its website in the 
section explaining trading  risks. 
Ref: DRN71572043The relevant  section said that FXCMs  dealing desk would close on Fridays  at 4.55pm 
Eastern Time. It went on to say orders could still be filled until 5.00pm and that traders 
should use caution  when  trading around Fridays market  close. So I think Mr M was aware  
of the impact  this could  have on his ability to manage his positions at those  times  and any 
losses he suffered as a result arent  something FXCM was responsible for.
Account leverage
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision I remain  of the view FXCM acted fairly and 
reasonably in allowing Mr M to trade using the leverage it did. Mr M has referred to 
information on FXCMs website which says new traders would only be allowed to trade  with 
50:1 leverage. But this version  of the website  was from April 2017,  shortly  after Mr M opened 
his first account. Im satisfied that the website as it was at the time Mr M opened his account 
specified that all accounts of the type Mr M opened  would have 200:1  leverage. I appreciate  
this policy  changed  shortly after Mr Ms account  was opened.  But firms are free to take 
decisions about the way they offer services and I dont think  it was unfair  of FXCM to allow  
Mr M to trade with the leverage he did. 
I think the conversation  Mr M had with FXCM about  his account leverage is also relevant. He 
had the option to switch  between different types of account offering  different leverage. He 
made it clear  to FXCM he was keen to take advantage of the greatest leverage  possible, and 
so I think its likely that hed have attempted to do so whatever the initial account leverage 
hed been given.
Making deposits
Mr M has said hed made multiple deposits previously without any issues,  but only on 
occasion would he be prevented from having money credited to his account straight away. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied FXCM processed his deposits fairly, 
and made  Mr M aware it could take up to a day for them to show on his account. Where 
payments did take some  time, I find that this was due to the application of systematic rules  
and processes FXCM and its third party payment company had in place to ensure payments 
were legitimate and protect clients. Ive seen nothing  to suggest FXCM took specific  
decisions not to allow Mr Ms payments to be made  outside of the processes it had in place.
Was advice given?
This question is relevant  as  if FXCM  had given Mr M regulated advice about any of his 
trades  the relevant regulations and obligations on it would be different. But from everything 
Ive seen Im still not persuaded FXCM  advised Mr M.
The terms of Mr Ms agreement  with Mr M say that dealings between them will be carried  out 
on an execution-only basis unless otherwise agreed  in writing. Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest FXCM ever wrote to Mr M to say it would advise him. Thats not to say FXCM 
mightnt have given advice without having  agreed to do so. And Ive not been able to listen  to 
every conversation Mr M had with FCXM.
But from the correspondence I have seen Mr M gives the impression hes clear  about how 
he wants to trade and his strategy.  There are conversations  about his view on the market 
and when it might turn, and these dont give the impression of someone expecting to be 
advised on which trades to take out. Mr M also traded extensively and in great volume over 
Ref: DRN71572044a long period of time. The number of trades  he carried  out far exceeds  the number of times 
he spoke to FXCM. Taking  all this into account,  on balance I think  its more likely  than not 
that Mr M himself picked which trades to enter into and FXCM didnt advise him.
Opening the account and relevant regulators rules
Id like to clarify to Mr M that when I considered the way FXCM had dealt with his request to 
open his account I had regard to the relevant regulators rules as Im required to do. As Mr M 
points out of particular significance are the rules  setting  out FXCMs obligation to assess 
whether the account was appropriate for him (COBS  10) and its overarching responsibility  to 
have regard for Mr Ms interests and treat him fairly  (FCA Principle 6).
Mr M has questioned whether the account was appropriate for him given his financial 
circumstances and health issues. But its important to note that FXCM didnt think  the 
account was appropriate for Mr M to begin  with either. It wrote to him to say so, and 
recommended he reviewed the educational  materials  it provided  and practiced trading using 
a demo  account  first. Im satisfied this complied with the relevant COBS  rules at the time.
Mr M said he wanted to open  an account and trade anyway.  COBS 10.3.3G gives  guidance 
for what firms  should do in this situation. It says if its warned  the client  and he wants to go 
ahead with a transaction,  it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard for the 
circumstances.
FXCM emailed  Mr M to find out more about  his circumstances. He replied to say he would 
begin trading with a relatively small sum and would build his confidence as he went.  He said 
hed go elsewhere  if FXCM didnt let him trade.
Bearing in mind FXCMs  responsibilities under Principle 6 and the guidance in COBS 
10.3.3G I dont think  it was unfair or unreasonable for it to allow  Mr M to trade. Hed 
expressed a clear desire to do so and had explained  the way he was going  to begin trading 
with an affordable sum. 
Dealing desk  accounts
Mr Ms said that the nature of his accounts  meant FXCM were taking the other side of his 
trades. In other words, if he won, FXCM would lose and vice versa.  He says it had a direct 
financial interest in his trading being unsuccessful.
There are two aspects to this issue. Firstly, the extent  to which  such  a conflict of interest 
existed or was managed by FXCM, and secondly  whether  any such  conflict was exploited  by 
FXCM to Mr Ms detriment.
The potential for this conflict is acknowledged  and explained by FXCM in its description of its 
dealing desk  model: FXCMs compensation may not be limited to our standard  markup  and 
our interests may be in direct conflict with yours. FXCM faces  market  risk as a result  of 
entering into trades with you. If FXCM  elects not to cover its own trading exposure, then you 
should be aware that FXCM may make more money  if the market  goes against you.
So Im satisfied that FXCM made Mr M aware  of the potential of a conflict between  its 
interests and his own. I should  say that this type of conflict isnt unusual  in the industry.  But 
nonetheless, Ive therefore considered whether the existence of such  a conflict makes  the 
arrangement between Mr M and FXCM  inherently  unfair.
Ref: DRN71572045Broadly speaking, FXCM manages  this conflict by covering its trading exposure.  Some of 
this will happen organically, as amongst its clients some will be long of a particular contract 
and some short, reducing or eliminating  both FXCMs exposure and conflict  with its clients. 
Crucially, and for the reasons  given elsewhere  in this decision and my provisional decision, 
Im not persuaded FXCM treated Mr M unfairly  or exploited any conflict  to put its interests 
ahead of his - in the way it dealt with him from opening his account, to the way it offered its 
trading services and the way it executed his trades. 
Mr M has referred to previous regulatory  fines and censure FXCM and its related entities 
had been subject to. I dont think it follows that because FXCM had previously done anything  
wrong in its dealings with clients that it must  have  done so here. Ive considered  the specific  
way its dealt with Mr M and Ive not found  that it treated him unfairly.
So overall Im still not persuaded it caused Mr Ms losses and so dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to require  FXCM to refund those losses to Mr M.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71572046Copy of provisional  findings:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, Id like to say I have tremendous sympathy for Mr M and the situation hes now in. I appreciate 
hes lost a lot of money and I dont underestimate the impact this has had on him. But I have to consider  
whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint,  which in this case means  Ive 
thought very carefully about  whether Mr Ms losses  are a result  of anything FXCM  has done wrong.
Like our investigator, Im not currently persuaded FXCM  has caused Mr Ms losses. So I dont think it 
would be fair to require it to pay him any compensation. Ill explain why.
opening Mr Ms account 
Because of the particular  risks posed by CFD trading,  before  allowing Mr M to open an account  and trade 
FXCM was required to assess whether an account  would be appropriate for him. This assessment 
involved gathering  relevant information to allow  FXCM to decide whether Mr M had enough knowledge  
and experience  to understand the risks  hed be exposing  his money to. If it didnt think the account was 
appropriate for Mr M, it needed to warn him that was the case. If Mr M said he wanted to proceed 
anyway, it would be for FXCM to consider whether to allow him to trade or not, having  regard for the 
circumstances.
When he first applied for his account, Mr M said he was unemployed,  and didnt have any previous  
trading experience. FXCM sent him an email saying it didnt  think CFD trading was appropriate for him,  
and recommending  he create a demo account to practice  trading, and saying he should read the 
educational materials  on its website. It also asked where the money he was intending to trade  was 
coming from.
Mr M then amended his application to say he was self-employed and earned between £25,000 and 
£50,000 a year. He also wrote  to FXCM  to explain  hed left his previous job due to a health issue, and 
wanted to learn foreign  exchange trading. He said hed start with a few hundred pounds and build  from 
there as he gained confidence.  In his email  Mr M said if FXCM didnt open an account  hed  go to another  
broker.
So Im satisfied FXCM gathered the right sort of information about  Mr M and his knowledge and 
experience. It warned him it didnt think a CFD account  was appropriate  for him. Mr Ms response, in my 
view, indicated hed thought about the risks he was exposing himself to and was intending to only invest 
a small amount to begin with. Hed indicated his desire to trade  CFDs,  and overall I dont think it was 
unreasonable for FXCM to allow him to open an account  and trade.
I dont  think FXCMs decision  to open  Mr Ms account  can fairly be said to have caused his losses,  in any 
event. The correspondence from the time indicates Mr M was very keen  to trade in CFDs.  Hed told FXCM 
hed go elsewhere  if it didnt let him open an account. So I think even if FXCM had declined to open  Mr 
Ms account, hed have done whatever he needed to in order to open one. That might have involved 
trading somewhere  else,  or trading on a demo account  until FXCM was satisfied he was able to 
understand the risks involved.
Id also note  that, to begin with, Mr Ms trading was successful.  He made  several thousand pounds  of 
profit, and traded hundreds of times, in the first few months he had his account. So by the time  things 
Ref: DRN71572047turned against him and he suffered the losses hes complained about, Ive no doubt he had enough 
experience to understand the risks of CFD trading.
the account leverage
Mr Ms complained FXCM gave him too much  leverage. In other words he was able to trade bigger 
positions for the amount of money he had deposited as margin. This meant when his trades went  against 
him, his losses were larger in relation to his investment than they  would have been with lower leverage.
When Mr M first opened his account, FXCM gave new accounts below a certain size (which it called mini 
accounts) 200:1  leverage.  It said once  an account  was above  a certain value it would default to a 
standard account with  leverage of 100:1.  This would, understandably, happen at the end of the day. Im 
satisfied that Mr Ms individual accounts  never had balances above  the required level at the end of a 
trading day. 
FXCM changed  its policy, and opened new accounts with  lower leverage, but this happened  about three 
weeks after Mr Ms first account was opened. When  he opened his second account the leverage was 
given on the same terms as his first account.  I dont find any of this to be unreasonable  or inconsistent 
with FXCMs own policies.
Further, and crucially, Mr M had a web chat  conversation with FXCM around a month  after his account 
was opened,  which covered the leverage  on his account and the different account types.
He and FXCMs adviser discussed  mini and standard  accounts, and he was given a link to a webpage  
setting out the differences  in detail. Mr M said my leverage  will goes [sic] down to 1:100  from  1:200 if I 
switch to standard, meaning  that I need more capital to make the same level  of profit.
So I think Mr M was fully  aware of the leverage  of his account, and if hed wanted to could  have chosen 
to trade in smaller size to limit his exposure. But while things were going well,  he wanted to maximise his 
leverage to make greater  profits. He chose not to change  his account  type  to one with  lower  leverage. As 
a result  I dont  think  it would be fair to hold  FXCM responsible for Mr M using his full leverage to put on 
bigger trades, and for the larger  losses he subsequently suffered when his trading  wasnt as successful.
trading advice 
Mr M has said FXCM gave him trading advice, which it shouldnt have done. And that it pressured him 
into trading. Ive looked  at the emails and web  chats Mr M exchanged with FXCM. And Ive listened  to a 
number of calls between  him and FXCMs staff throughout 2017 while  he was trading.
Ive not seen or heard anything which  I think constitutes regulated advice. At no point has FXCM 
recommended a particular  trade it thought Mr M should carry  out. There  have been conversations about 
his account and the way hes traded, and FXCM have invited him to trading  seminars  and talked about Mr 
M upgrading his account.
But overall I think Mr M was at all times making his own trading decisions. I also think he was keen  to 
continue trading. At one point in May 2017 Mr M tells FXCM he had some open losses on his account.  But 
his demeanour  remained positive, and he talked about  how he felt the market would turn in his favour 
and hed  resume making money  again. He told FXCM how he was intending to move from part time 
trading to making it his full time occupation.
Ref: DRN71572048So Im satisfied Mr M understood what he was doing  and had a clear  plan  in place for his trading.  He was 
aware he could (and had) suffered some losses  but wanted to carry on as in his view things would get 
better again.
I think this is important  in light of what Mr Ms also said about how his account was funded.  Hed  paid  
into his FXCM account from a credit card and, as his losses grew, he took out loans which he used to add 
more funds in the hope  of recouping what hed lost.  
I want to be clear  that Im not dismissing  the impact those decisions have had on Mr M, or that because 
he wasnt able to make further profitable trades hes now been  left with  a debt hes struggling to pay off. 
But the key issue is whether thats something FXCM needed to or ought to have done something about. 
And ultimately, I dont think it was. 
This was an execution only account and as Ive said Im satisfied Mr M was making his own trading  
decisions. It was his choice how much  to fund his account with, and what type  and size of trade he 
wanted to place.  And Ive taken into account  the fact thatthe  courts have made it clear that firms like 
FXCM dont have a general  implied  duty  to protect  their clients from causing themselves  economic harm. 
So while  I sympathise with Mr M, I dont think his trading  decisions or how he funded his account are 
something I can fairly hold FXCM responsible for.
Mr Ms access to the trading platform
Mr Ms said that  particularly at volatile times  he wasnt able  to trade. Hes  provided screenshots he 
says demonstrate this. But based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded  FXCM has caused Mr M to 
be unable to trade.  
FXCMs acknowledged  there was an issue on one particular day  where  a pop up box appeared and 
couldnt be closed. But it said Mr M contacted  FXCM and it explained he could call the dealing  desk to 
trade. Ive not seen anything  to suggest  he did so.
The screenshots Mr M has sent  simply show his computer screen with FXCMs platform open. They  show  
charts and boxes which I take to be order entry tickets, but it isnt clear why and when Mr M was 
prevented from trading.  
Overall Im not currently persuaded Mr M has been  caused losses because of a problem of FXCMs 
making leaving him unable  to trade. If Mr M has specific  evidence  of occasions  he was unable to trade Ill 
of course consider it. But Id note that Id need to be satisfied that the issues were  caused  by FXCM,  and 
further that Mr M wasnt  able to trade by any other means  either.
price manipulation
Mr M has said FXCM manipulated  the prices on its platform to give the impression of volatility when 
there wasnt any, causing some of his trades to be closed  and crystallising losses. Again, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest  thats the case.  Mr M has mentioned this happened particularly  on Fridays  at the end 
of the trading day. So Ive looked at Mr Ms trading history, focussing on trades at those times. 
I havent considered  every one of Mr Ms trades  of which  there  are many  thousands.  But from the 
sample Ive looked at I find that his trades have closed at prices reflective of those trading  in the 
underlying market at the time. So I dont think FXCM  has executed  any trades at incorrect  levels.  If Mr M 
Ref: DRN71572049has a specific trade or trades in mind he thinks  were unfairly closed, Ill consider them in detail  before 
making my final decision.
depositing money to Mr Ms trading accounts
Mr Ms said he suffered  losses when he couldnt  fund his account quickly enough.  I cant  see that FXCM 
ever guaranteed hed be able to make  payments  that would appear  in his account straight  away. And on 
FXCMs website it states  that deposits can take up to one business day to process.
Looking at the specific times Mr M wanted to add money to his account, I can see these  were often at 
times when hed  made  multiple deposits that day or in a short period of time. And many were for the 
same amounts of money. FXCM has explained, and Im satisfied, that the third party  it uses to process  
payments has safeguards in place which  will delay deposits if certain  criteria are triggered  meaning  a 
manual assessment has to be made. It says these are to protect against fraud and payments made in 
error.
Making lots of deposits  in a short space of time, and repeated requests to pay in the same amount are 
some of those criteria.  I think that makes sense  these  are the sort of things that may  well indicate  
someone has tried to make the same payment  twice, for example.
So I dont think its unreasonable payments  sometimes took longer  to reach Mr Ms trading account, or 
that some payments  were declined by either  the third party vendor or Mr Ms bank. Mr M knew  it may 
take up to a day to credit his account, and it was his responsibility to ensure he had enough money in his 
account to keep his positions open.
Taking all this into account I dont think FXCM  can fairly be held responsible for Mr Ms losses. He wanted 
to open a CFD trading account and for a while  was successful. He chose how much to put into his account 
and what trades he wanted  to make. Unfortunately,  a number of those trades went against him and he 
suffered some  quite substantial losses. But those losses were caused  by Mr Ms bets on the market  
direction turning out not to be right. Im not currently persuaded his losses were caused  by anything 
FXCM did wrong.
Ref: DRN7157204