K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the success fee charged  by Quickly Finance Limited (Quickly Finance) 
following a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. 
background
In July 2018 Mr L instructed Quickly Finance to complete a free PPI check  to see if hed 
taken out PPI with Lender B. The terms and conditions  explained  that Quickly Finance  would  
charge 20% plus VAT on any compensation received. In August 2018 it was confirmed that 
Mr L had taken out PPI with Lender  B. Mr L agreed for Quickly Finance to represent him in 
sending a claim to Lender B. 
On 4 September Quickly Finance sent Mr Ls claim to Lender B, which was acknowledged 
by Lender B on 10 September. Lender  B explained  it needed to verify Mr Ls address. The 
letter also said When we have been  able to verify your address, your claim will be 
investigated by our dedicated  PPI team and we will write to you with a full response  as 
quickly as possible.  We will provide you with an update no later than 1 November 2018. 
Quickly Finance chased Lender B for an update in November. Lender B advised Quickly  
Finance that Mr Ls claim was still being  reviewed, and a timescale  for when itd be able to 
respond couldnt be provided. Quickly Finance added a note to the system  saying that theyd 
allow 28 days before  chasing Lender B because  of what  theyd  been  told about  the delay in 
Lender B completing  its review. 
In December Mr L called Quickly Finance for an update. The call handler said hed ask the 
admin team to send a chaser  to Lender B, as one was due to be sent out that day. Mr L 
asked if Lender B would respond that same day. The call handler said he couldnt confirm  
this. Mr L asked if he could contact Lender  B himself. The call handler said Mr L was free to 
contact Lender B if he wanted to.  
On 11 January 2019 Mr L asked Quickly Finance for an update on his claim with Lender B. 
The call handler explained  a second  chase shouldve been sent, and apologised that this 
hadnt happened. The call handler  also explained that if Lender B didnt respond to the 
second chase,  the claim  would  be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
On 18 January Lender B agreed to award  compensation for Mr Ls claim. Quickly Finance 
sent Mr L an invoice.  Mr L disputed this invoice saying that hed had to chase  Lender  B 
himself, and the call handler  in December had told him that his claim had just been left open.  
The investigator didnt  think Quickly Finance had acted unreasonably  in charging the invoice, 
and didnt recommend they do anything more in resolution of Mr Ls complaint. Mr L didnt 
agree with the investigators findings,  and requested decision by an ombudsman.  Mr L said 
there were additional call recordings which he wanted us to listen  to which  proved  his claim 
wasnt progressed. I requested the call recording from December 2018  (which Mr L had 
previously referred to as being important for this complaint) before arriving at my decision on 
Mr Ls complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
Ref: DRN75461622upsetting time for Mr L. Having reviewed the case, I think  Quickly Finance have acted 
reasonably in charging their success fee, so I wont be asking them to do anything  more.
Mr L feels strongly that Quickly Finance didnt act promptly when dealing with his claim, and 
during a conversation with a call handler in December 2018,  he was told nothing  had been  
done on his claim. Ive listened to the call recording  from December when Mr L questioned 
why Lender B hadnt provided  a response. I accept that Mr L was told during this call that a 
chaser was due to be sent that day, and that the call handler would remind  the admin team  
to do this. 
I dont think it would  be fair to say that Quickly Finance hadnt taken any action  on the claim. 
It looks like they were  told in November that Lender  B needed  more  time to complete its 
investigation. Apart from chasing Lender B for a response (which I can see they did in 
November), I dont think there  was anything else Quickly Finance  couldve done to speed up 
the process, or force  Lender B to reply sooner.
Although Mr L chose to contact Lender B, he didnt have to. I dont think  the call handler 
encouraged Mr L to do this, and I also cant  say that it was Mr Ls involvement with the claim 
which led to the successful outcome. Quickly Finance were instructed to represent  Mr L and 
manage his claim. I think its fair to say that they did this.
Ive listened to the call in January 2019,  which took place only a few days before the offer 
letter was sent from Lender B. I accept that given Mr Ls claim was sent to Lender B in 
August 2018,  it wouldve been reasonable for a response to have been provided, or for the 
claim to have been escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service  by January 2019. I cant 
see that Lender B was chased  after November  2018. 
Mr L was told during the call in January  2019  that a further chaser would be sent,  and if this 
wasnt responded to, the claim would be progressed to the Financial Ombudsman  Service. 
The call handler also apologised that this hadnt happened sooner. I think  this was fair. 
Whilst the claim hadnt been chased,  I think the process for what  would happen next was 
clearly explained,  understood, and agreed to by Mr L. Quickly Finance couldve chased  
Lender B sooner for an outcome  on the claim, but I dont think this wouldve affected how 
quickly Lender B completed its investigation. 
Quickly Finance did what they were instructed to do, and it was because of their referral to 
Lender B that the claim was reviewed,  and compensation paid to Mr L. So I think  its fair that 
their success fee remains payable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7546162