K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) have charged  them  two 
excesses for a claim on their mechanical  breakdown insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs R say the repairs should be treated as one claim as they stem from the same 
fault.
background
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs R made a claim on their policy  as their car wasnt  locking.  
The offside front and rear door locks had failed. As a result,  the motor solenoids  in both 
locks were replaced. Pinnacle said that as the fault to each door happened  at a different 
time, two separate incidents  had taken place and therefore two separate  insured parts had 
failed. Because  of this Pinnacle  applied  two excesses, one for each part which had failed. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and thought the complaint  should be 
upheld. He found that a third latch on the car had also failed in March 2019  and therefore felt 
the likelihood of three identical  faults happening to three of the cars  doors  as a coincidence 
was low. 
Based on the above, and that Pinnacle  hadnt  been able to identify what the issue was that 
caused the faults, it wouldnt be fair for Pinnacle to treat the two repairs as two separate 
incidents and charge  two excesses.
Pinnacle disagreed  with our investigators opinion,  it said that the Service Advisor  had 
previously confirmed the failures were unrelated. It also provided a call recording it had with 
the Aftersales Manager  who confirmed the failures were independent of each other.
As Pinnacle  disagreed the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pinnacle has referred to its policy document when  deciding to charge  two excesses. It 
states: Claim means the breakdown of an insured part
Pinnacle have  said that the faults to Mr and Mrs Rs car were independent of each other.  
Therefore there have  been two separate  claims and two excesses are payable  However  
Mr and Mrs Rs car suffered the same fault to three  different doors that required the same 
repair on each to correct  the issue.
The Service  Advisor and the Aftersales Manger have both said the failures were 
independent of each other, but neither have been  able to say what caused the failure  on 
each occasion,  only that replacing  the motor solenoids in both locks  corrected the problem.
So while each solenoid has failed independently  of each other  Im not satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for Pinnacle to charge an excess for each part. I say this because  Mr and Mrs R 
reported a fault with their locking system. And while each part may not have failed at the 
Ref: DRN75498012same time, the fault they had was with the locking system. Because of this I think its only 
fair and reasonable for Pinnacle to charge one excess. 
So it follows  that I think its unfair for Pinnacle  to charge Mr and Mrs R two excess  payments 
for the repairs that were carried out.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Pinnacle  Insurance Plc to refund one excess  payment of £100, adding  interest  at 
the rate of 8% simple  per annum  from the date Mr and Mrs R made the payment to the date 
it is paid returned,  in recognition of the time Mr and Mrs R have  been  without these  funds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7549801