K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that National House-Building Council declined  to deal with their 
claim for damage to their retaining  wall under their buildings  warranty.
background
The property was completed in 2005  and the claim was made  in 2014 under section three of 
the buildmark  warranty which  operates between years three to ten. Mr and Mrs B made a 
claim for the damage and after a review of photographic evidence NHBC declined  the claim. 
It said the wall was supporting the land to the side of the property rather  than the structural  
stability of the house.  Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this and brought  their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  wasnt any evidence  to indicate  
the structural stability of the house relied on the retaining wall so NHBC acted reasonably  
when it declined the claim. She said NHBC had agreed that it would reconsider the claim if 
Mr and Mrs B got evidence to show the retaining  wall is a common part and she felt this was 
fair. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section three of the NHBC warranty states under the definition of home  that Home does not 
include any fence. But it also says it includes Retaining walls necessary for the structural  
stability of the house,  bungalow, flat or maisonette, its garage or other permanent 
outbuilding.
So Ive considered the expert evidence provided  in the form of a building  inspection. Within  
the report it says 
Again there  is no significant  evidence/cracking  or distortion to indicate any failure of support 
at the present stage.
I have researched on an electronic library database  to confirm if there are any British 
Standards available for this type of design and I cannot find any appropriate design 
guidance under  the British Standard or Building Research Establishment  for this type of 
application.
I have also examined  the NHBC  website  and reviewed the NHBC manual to establish what 
guidance may be available for them on the assumption the building  was constructed under 
the auspices of an NHBC  warranty  and inspection
There was no guidance but the engineer  did find in a later NHBC newsletter details around  
the issues with such retaining walls. I noted within this guidance  that it says failure may not 
be covered by insurance.
I think this report is the most  useful  evidence Ive got to consider. And it ties in with NHBC 
when it said the wall appeared  to be supporting  the land to the side of the property rather 
Ref: DRN74088882than the structural  stability of the house. The warranty requires a defect to have  caused  
physical damage.  But the details in the building inspection shows theres no sign of physical 
damage to the home. So I dont think NHBC acted unreasonably or unfairly when it declined 
to deal with the claim.
Based on the wording  NHBC said it would reconsider  the claim if evidence  that the retaining 
wall is a common part was produced. I think thats reasonable.
I note solicitors on behalf of Mr and Mrs B have said later changes  in regulations should 
apply. But I cant see that follows  as it wouldnt be fair to apply rules that werent in operation 
when the property was built and the warranty was applied. Ive noted above the details from 
the expert inspection provide the important evidential facts.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against National House-Building Council.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7408888