K820x#14complaint
Ms C has complained that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC failed to tell her in advance  how 
much her home insurance policy would cost to renew. She has also complained about the 
renewal premium.
background
Ms C had a home insurance policy with Tesco. In 2016, the premium was £344.
On the day the policy  was due to renew automatically in 2017, Ms C received the renewal 
documents through the post. The premium had increased to £511.
Ms C rang Tesco. It said it had sent three  emails  concerning the renewal  but Ms C said she 
hadnt received  these.  Ms C said she wasnt prepared to pay the higher price and therefore 
cancelled the policy. She took out cover  with another insurer at a cheaper price.  However, in 
searching for the new policy  on a price comparison website, she noted she could get cover  
from Tesco as a new customer  for far less than the offered renewal premium.
Ms C complained to Tesco about  its failure  to give her advance notice of the policys  
renewal. She further complained that the proposed increase in premium was unreasonable, 
particularly as it was offering  far cheaper cover to new customers.
Tesco acknowledged  that it may have  misspelt Ms Cs email address, meaning she didnt 
receive its messages.  It paid her £30 compensation for this. It explained that its premiums 
were affected by a number of things and suggested that an incident  of water damage, even 
though this didnt eventually lead to a claim, may have been a contributory factor to the 
increase.
Ms C was unhappy at Tescos response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She noted that 
Tescos error meant Ms C didnt know about  the renewal cost of her policy in advance. 
However, she thought  that its offer of £30 compensation  was fair, particularly as Ms C still 
had 14 days to decide whether or not to continue with the policy. She noted that Ms C ended  
up not renewing the policy and instead obtaining  cheaper cover elsewhere which meant she 
didnt suffer any loss as a result of the late notice. She was satisfied the offered renewal 
price had been calculated fairly despite  the fact that Ms C could obtain cheaper cover, 
including as a new customer with Tesco.
Ms C didnt accept the adjudicators findings. The matter has therefore been passed to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Tesco was at fault for recording  Ms Cs email address  incorrectly. As a result,  she didnt 
know in advance how much her renewal premium  was going to be. Ms C has explained how 
she didnt renew  her policy on learning  about the premium increase and wasnt able to take 
Ref: DRN74994082out a new policy with another insurer until the next day. I can imagine that this would have  
been inconvenient and worrying for Ms C. However,  she didnt actually suffer  any loss and 
ended up with a far cheaper policy. In the circumstances,  I consider the £30 compensation 
offered by Tesco is reasonable.
I acknowledge the renewal premium had increased considerably from the year before. We 
generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its policies. 
Provided it exercises this discretion fairly and consistently, in accordance with its internal 
guidelines, this is a matter in which we would not normally  interfere. Tesco has provided  us 
with evidence of how it calculated Ms Cs renewal premium. I cant share  this information 
with her because it is commercially  sensitive but I have checked it and am satisfied it 
calculated her premium fairly  and accurately. She has been  charged the same as anyone  
else in her particular  circumstances. I can confirm that the water  damage which  Ms C 
reported to Tesco,  even though it didnt materialise into a claim,  was a contributory  factor  to 
the premium increase.
Ms C has pointed to her new policy with another insurer as evidence  that Tesco was 
overcharging her. However, it is up to each insurer to decide what cover  to offer and how to 
assess the risk of providing  that cover. I cant therefore say that the existence of much 
cheaper cover elsewhere necessarily means  Tesco was charging  her an unfair price.
Ms C has also highlighted that Tesco itself would offer her a much cheaper policy if she 
applied as a new customer. I recognise  why Ms C would be concerned at this. Ms C hasnt 
provided details  to enable me to see if the cover for the cheaper policy was comparable to 
her existing policy. However, even assuming the cover  was the same,  it is common for an 
insurer to offer discounted rates  to new customers.  I therefore  dont think the fact that Ms C 
could obtain cheaper cover  with Tesco as a new customer necessarily means she was being 
offered an unfair premium  at renewal.      
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7499408