K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining that Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) automatically renewed  his car 
insurance policy when  he asked it not to do so. 
background
AJG wrote to Mr H to say that it was going  to automatically renew his car insurance  policy  on 
1 October 2018 if it didnt  hear from him. Mr H called AJG on 14 September 2018  and asked 
that it didnt renew  it. However, AJG renewed  the policy.
Mr H called AJG after the policy renewed  to say that hed taken out another insurance policy 
and was unhappy that SJG had taken  a direct debit payment  of £252.77 for the renewed  
policy. AJG apologised and said it would refund the payment back to him. The refund  was 
paid to Mr H the next day.
Mr H said that he already had a lot of debt and struggled with depression.  He says that this 
issue caused him to lose sleep,  so he thinks AJG should compensate  him.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that AJG made a simple  mistake,  but it 
rectified this the next day. So he didnt  think  AJG needed to pay him any compensation.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that AJG made a mistake so it should compensate him so that 
this doesnt happen again.  As he didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt the regulator of the industry and its not our role to 
fine and punish  business. Were a dispute resolution service and our role is to put things 
right when something has gone wrong.
Its not disputed  that AJG shouldnt have renewed  the insurance  policy  as Mr H expressly 
asked it to not do so. But I can see that Mr H received the money  back  within  two days and 
AJG apologised  for the mistake its made. 
I dont dispute  that Mr H has had to contact AJG to highlight the issue and Ive noted his 
comments in this respect. But I havent  seen anything to show that hes lost out because  of 
whats happened. And Im satisfied that AJG took fair steps to put things right. So I dont 
think it needs to pay Mr H anything further.
Ref: DRN77903182my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7790318