K820x#14complaint
JC, a limited company,  complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont  refund 
multiple disputed  transactions  made  from its business account.
The director  of JC, Mrs M, is bringing the complaint on its behalf  - so I will refer to her 
throughout. 
background
Mrs M is unhappy  Barclays  wont  refund multiple disputed transactions  that left her 
business account between 2015 and 2017  which she says she didnt make  or otherwise 
authorise herself.
Mrs M has provided lots of detail about her complaint  which I have read in full, but for ease, 
I have set out a summary of events below.  It also worth noting  that Mrs M has told us about  
some additional  transactions  made  from a personal ISA she held with Barclays.  As these 
transactions took place on a different account  held in a personal capacity by Mrs M, I will 
not be considering  them  here. If Mrs M wishes us to consider these transactions  separately, 
she will need  to let us know.
What Mrs M has said
Mrs M has said a number  of transactions left her business  banking  account between  
April 2015 and May 2017 which she doesnt recognise. Mrs M has told us that during this 
period, she had employed an accountant/clerk to help her with the administration  of her 
business. Mrs M has told us this employee  was not given permission to make payments 
from the business account   that was the sole responsibility of the director of the 
company, Mrs M herself. However, Mrs M now believes that her employee was able to 
hack into her Barclays  business banking account and make numerous payments to her 
partner and others. Mrs M says she did not give her permission for this employee  to do 
this and she doesnt know how this person got access to her account.  
Mrs M has also told us that her ex-employee was able to speak to Barclays  via telephone 
banking, somehow getting through  Barclays voice  recognition security. Mrs M has said 
she also had her statements redirected  to an address that wasnt  hers - which  is ultimately 
why she didnt notice  the large number of transactions leaving the account over a period 
of many months. 
Mrs M has told us she wants Barclays to refund  the transactions as she believes Barclays  
processed them without  her permission. Shes told us that she kept the debit card 
attached to this account with her at all times, only she knew  the PIN and her PIN Sentry 
device (a small device that is needed  to authorise on-line transfers) was kept at her home 
and never  taken to her place of work.
In support of what shes told us, Mrs M has provided us with her account statements 
showing the payments  leaving her account.  She has highlighted that she does not know  
the beneficiaries  that the payments are being  made to and that even though the majority  
of the payments refer to wages, these  individuals did not work  for her and there were no 
Ref: DRN79487542corresponding timesheets for work  completed. Mrs M thinks  these individuals  must be 
people associated with her ex-employee.
What Barclays has said
Barclays said that in December 2017  a fraud  claim was raised  to dispute a number of 
online banking (OLB)  transfers. Mrs M provided  them with numerous statements and a 
list of beneficiaries she did not recognise. Using this information, Barclays  was able to 
identify transactions  totalling £12,789.22. 
Barclays said it wouldnt offer Mrs M a refund of the disputed transactions  as it didnt feel 
the transactions were fraudulent. It thought Mrs M either made the transactions  herself  or 
had shared her debit  card,  PIN and PIN sentry device to allow  someone  else to do so on 
her behalf.  
Barclays said Mrs M said her accountant/clerk had made the transfers  without her 
permission but she hadnt provided  it with a reasonable explanation  as to how this 
couldve happened. Barclays technical  information  showed that all of the transactions 
were made using Mrs Ms online banking security  details alongside her debit card and 
PIN  which in turn was used alongside Mrs Ms PIN sentry  security  device  to authorise 
the transactions. And, based on Mrs Ms own testimony, only she knew  her OLB security 
details and her PIN and only she had access to her debit card and PIN sentry  security 
device which  she kept at home. And so Barclays didnt think anyone other than Mrs M 
couldve made the transactions.
Mrs M didnt  agree with the decision made  by Barclays and she asked  us to investigate.
what our investigator said
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint  should be upheld. In summary,  he was also 
unable to conclude  the transactions  had been made fraudulently  for mostly  the same 
reasons as Barclays had set out.
As Mrs M did not agree  with the investigators  opinion, the case  was placed  in the queue 
for a final decision.  However, Mrs M contacted us again and said shed spoken to a 
professional who had identified more disputed  transactions. These  transactions not only 
affected her business  banking  account  but her personal savings accounts too. Mrs M said 
her total loss now amounted to c£70,000.  In support of this, Mrs M provided  us with a list 
of transactions  that had left her accounts  but it wasnt  clear which  accounts  Mrs M was 
referring to. The list of transactions did not set out which  account  had funded them. 
Our investigator contacted Barclays and asked if it would be willing  to look into these 
transactions as part of this complaint. Barclays said it would but later confirmed that its 
position remained the same. It told us it had been  able to identify some transactions that 
didnt form part of Mrs Ms original complaint but these amounted  to much less than the 
c£70,000 Mrs M now said. It had reviewed these transactions and ascertained that these  
too had been authorised using Mrs Ms OLB security  details, her card,  PIN and PIN 
sentry device and so it was difficult for it to see how anyone  other  than Mrs M could  have 
authorised them.
It also pointed out the correspondence  address  it held for JC had been the same since  
2015 and all of JCs account statements during the period the disputed transactions took 
Ref: DRN79487543place had been sent to this address alongside  any other correspondence - and so it 
couldnt agree that JCs account  statements had been sent elsewhere  by Mrs Ms 
ex-employee.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint again  in light of the additional complaint points 
provided by Mrs M and the additional  evidence provided by Barclays.  He agreed  that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld for much the same reasons.
As an agreement could not be reached  the complaint has now been  passed to me to 
decide.
During the course of my investigation, I asked Mrs M if she could provide me with 
statements highlighting all of the transactions  she wished to complain about  as the ones 
currently identified did not add up to the c£70,000  she was stating. I also asked Mrs M to 
provide me with some further  information about the telephone call she says was made  to 
Barclays by the fraudster as it wasnt clear  who had told Mrs M this or where  this 
information had come from. Mrs M did not offer any further clarification. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as our investigator previously set out 
 and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
the disputed transactions
Generally speaking, Barclays can hold Mrs M liable for the disputed transactions  if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not she made the transactions  herself or she 
authorised someone  else to make the transactions  on her behalf.
Barclays technical information shows me that JCs OLB security details, genuine card and 
PIN (alongside its PIN sentry device) were used to make the disputed transactions. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that this is not, on its own, enough to enable  Barclays 
to hold Mrs M, on behalf of JC, liable  for them. So, I also need  to think about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mrs M consented  to the transactions  
being made or whether  her OLB banking details, her PIN and card details were stolen from 
her.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mrs M authorised the 
transactions she is now disputing. This is because:
The transactions took place over a period of many months. And there are 
undisputed transactions that take place between the disputed  ones   sometimes 
within minutes of each other for genuine salary payments. Ive taken on board about  
what Mrs M has said about the account being  hacked but I havent  been provided 
with any evidence that would support this conclusion. Whoever made these 
transactions had regular access  to Mrs Ms OLB and was able to successfully 
authenticate the payments using Mrs Ms security  details, genuine  card, PIN and 
PIN sentry device. And based  on Mrs Ms own testimony, her ex-employee did not 
have access to this information. Mrs M has told us only she knew her OLB security 
details and PIN and that her card was kept on her person and her PIN sentry  device 
Ref: DRN79487544at home.  And so, based  on what Mrs M has told us, it wouldnt have been possible 
for her clerk to gain access to all the information needed to allow these transactions 
to leave the account. Furthermore, the fact that genuine transactions are being  
made during the same login  session  as disputed transactions also doesnt  support 
this scenario. It is unclear why a third-party would go to the lengths  of hacking Mrs 
Ms OLB banking to go on to make genuine  wage payments to her employees.  
Ive also thought carefully about  what Mrs M has said about  how her business 
account would have been managed.  Mrs M has told us that wages were  paid to 
her staff weekly  and only she, as the director of the company, was authorised  to 
make these  payments.  By necessity then,  Mrs M would  have  had to log into this 
account on a weekly basis to make these payments and had thousands  of pounds 
genuinely been missing from her account, I think she wouldve noticed this much 
sooner than she did. Her balance wouldve reduced by substantially  more than she 
expected. But the transactions are allowed to continue  for a number of years. 
Ive also thought carefully about  what Mrs M has told us about not noticing the 
transactions because  her statements had been  redirected to the fraudsters address. 
But I cannot agree with Mrs M on this point either. Ive looked at the 
correspondence address Barclays holds for this account, to which  it would have 
sent JCs monthly statements during the period in question,  and it is the same as 
the one both this service and Barclays hold for Mrs M. It has been since  2015.  
Barclays has told me that at least 16 pieces  of correspondence, including account 
statements, were sent to this address during the period the disputed transactions  
are said to have taken place. And so Im satisfied  that its more  likely than not that 
Mrs M did have  access to the statements being produced  for this account during the 
period in question. 
Mrs M has been consistent in telling our service that she was informed that her ex-
employee had been  able to impersonate her and successfully get through  Barclays 
voice recognition  security to make  changes to her account. I asked Mrs M to 
provide me with some further  information about this as Barclays have no record  of 
this taking place.  But no further information was provided and so I cant  conclude 
that its more likely than not that this is what happened here.  Regardless,  I will say 
that all of the transactions JC has disputed where made using its OLB security  
details, and so even if someone  had been  able to access Mrs Ms telephone 
banking, that is not how these transfers were made. It wouldnt be possible for 
someone to gain access to all the information  they would need to carry out online 
banking transactions  from a telephone  conversation with Barclays.  
In summary,  Barclays can hold Mrs M, on behalf  of JC, liable for the transactions if 
theres evidence  she consented to them. Having  taken into account the regularity of the 
transactions, the period  during in which  they took place  and that they are completed  
using security information only Mrs M could have  known/had access to, I think its fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to hold her liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M, on behalf 
of JC, to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
Ref: DRN79487545Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948754