K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about advice he was given by Bartholomew Hawkins  Ltd (BH) to transfer his 
pensions and ISA funds and later to use a discretionary investment management service. He 
didnt think this was right for him.
background
Mr J held two personal  pensions (PPP) with different providers and an investment  fund ISA 
along with non-ISA wrapped funds with a third provider.
At the time of the initial advice from BH Mr J was 53 and said he intended to retire  possibly 
from age 55, but no later than 60. 
The original  pensions and investments  were:
A PPP worth around £40,000 in with profits (plus  terminal bonus of around £34,000) 
with a 1% pa annual management charge (AMC)
A PPP worth around £32,000 in with profits (plus  terminal bonus of around £20,000), 
with a £2 per month administration  and AMC built in.
An ISA and general investment account  worth  around £37,000 and £9,000  
respectively each with an AMC charge of 1.9% per annum.  Both offered 27 funds 
with free switches and no closure  fee.
In early 2013, BH recommended transferring  the two PPPs  and ISA and general fund to a 
platform. The initial advice  fee was around £5,000 in total.
For the pensions  the new platform had a platform charge of 0.32%, an AMC of 0.69% and in 
addition a BH annual fee of 1% per annum. For the ISA the new platform charges were 
1.01% plus BHs 1% annual fee. 
A second transfer took place in January  2015  when BH transferred Mr Js total holdings to 
another platform provider  and a new discretionary management service.  There was no 
charge for the transfer, but the management costs increased. For the ISA and other  funds 
from 2.01%  to 2.24% and for the pensions  from 2.02% to 2.365%  
Mr J initially complained in 2015  mostly about service and some changes  were made. Mr Js 
current complaint was made in June 2017.
Mr J said hed had poor advice and service from BH. He felt he was, paying for financial 
services he didnt think hed received, complained  about delay in two transfers  to another  
provider, poor investment  performance, high management charges for below par 
performance, and lack of clarity  as to why his investments were changed from one platform 
to another.  When he first transferred to use BH he was told the move would make 3% plus 
but BH later admitted  one investment was only yielding as much as the previous 
investments. Over the following two years  he made  a loss of 7%. 
He felt the investments were in line with his attitude to risk and his intention  had been to 
invest for 5 years  or longer. His main complaint was poor communication  and performance  
not meeting up to expectations.
Ref: DRN71926952BH said it had previously dealt with a complaint about communication.  Following this it had 
changed the financial adviser.  The new financial adviser visited Mr J at his home in autumn 
2015 and it was agreed hed conduct annual reviews. By the following autumn Mr J had 
notified BH he was moving his investments, so the meeting didnt proceed.  The delay  on 
transfer was due to the other  parties  so wasnt a matter they could deal with.
Their advice at the outset  was that investments should be seen as medium  to long term with 
a minimum of five years  so Mr Js decision to encash early when he moved his investments 
meant the opportunity for growth was shorter. 
BH provided  information  about performance against  a benchmark and said their charges 
were competitive. BH said the advice to move to the first platform  was based on a model 
where they offered a quarterly review  service, monitored investments and suggested  
changes. It then moved to a full discretionary investment  management solution. This was a 
more active approach and it said its clients had benefited as for example it moved  large 
chunks of client portfolios  into cash before the market crash in 2015 and bought back  in at a 
lower level saving 1.5 to 2% of the overall value compared to the old platform. It said it 
wasnt paid for the move  from the first to the second  platform in part because itd been paid 
fees when it first took Mr J on as a client on the first platform.
While there  had been a fall in the fund value this was due to the underlying investments and 
was about 4.6% of the overall value compared  to market fall of nearer 20%.  It also said that 
it hadnt fallen  as much relative to its benchmark as many of its peers had. 
My first provisional  decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In summary I said there were a number of issues  
which can be broadly  grouped  as follows:-
The switch of two pension policies, to a new investment platform  with a review 
service, 
The switch of an ISA and general  investment account on to a new investment 
platform with a review service, 
The switch to a second platform and discretionary  investment management in around 
2015,
Thirdly Mr Js complaint about service and delay  in transfer.
The switch  of two pension policies
I reviewed the original suitability report issued in early 2013.  The stated objectives were  to 
review existing pensions  and the ISA and general investment account to ensure  the 
investments are tax efficient with a suitable  investment strategy  that is attuned to Mr Js 
attitude to risk (ATR), which was said to be balanced meaning 
a balance  of risk and reward with the aim that, in the longer term, higher returns  may 
result. You are willing  to accept that the value  of your investment will fall and rise in 
value and you could  get back less than you invest. Typically, you will invest  in a wide 
variety of assets
Ref: DRN71926953It confirmed Mr J was satisfied  this fit with his capacity for loss. The time horizon wasnt  
stated other  than the reference to longer  term in the ATR. The report  said short term would 
be up to 5 years, medium 5 to 10 years and a long term would  be for a period of 10 years  
plus. BH later said the aim was for longer than 10 years as Mr J would go into drawdown. 
While drawdown is mentioned, there is no connection between this and the term of the 
investment, nor confirmation  of what the investment term is nor how it meets the ATR.
The original  email confirming Mr Js details  said he intended to retire  no later than 60 (at that 
time he was 53) and BH said they would be preparing a plan to retire at 55 or 60. That 
would suggest  a possible time horizon of short  or medium term not longer term. If longer 
term was justified due to drawdown I think  that should have been mentioned explicitly  but it 
wasnt. 
The report  reviewed two personal pensions held with the same provider. It notes both are in 
with profits  policies and currently  carry  a significant terminal  bonus  that could be removed at 
any time. The loss of this bonus is one of the reasons given to transfer the pensions  to a 
new platform. While this may present a reasonable basis to transfer it doesnt mean the 
advice about the destination  was automatically  suitable.
The new investment portfolio  couldnt  be directly compared to the old but BH said the new 
offered diversity which should ensure an overall  upturn  where one particular asset class is 
showing a negative or low return.
The cost comparison presented a 1% AMC  and an unclear implicit charge (for the two old 
pensions) to a new platform charge of 0.32% and AMC of 0.69%. The report notes the new 
plan is slightly more  expensive than the existing  contracts based  on these figures alone. 
While the additional  1% for the annual review  is referred to elsewhere in the report  it isnt 
included in the comparison. In fact, when the additional 1% is added  the new platform  and 
advice is significantly more expensive  but that isnt explained or discussed explicitly. BH 
says this shouldnt  be included because these were  new services  he didnt have already. But 
I dont agree. I think it was important  for Mr J to understand the full impact of all the charges. 
Failing to do so meant the impression created is of a marginal increase in costs  rather  than a 
significant one.
The report  referred  to a planned  retirement age of 65 despite the initial  evaluation indicating  
a desired retirement date of no later than 60 but between 55 and 60. In fact Mr J did 
subsequently retire and take his OPS pension as planned at 60 but has not yet taken any 
benefits from his SIPP.
The report  considered the suitability of a stakeholder pension but dismissed it. It simply 
stated that it is recommending a plan which is not a stakeholder as its more suitable  for his 
circumstances but doesnt explain why. I thought the report needed to go further to explain 
why what was proposed  was suitable  and therefore  why it couldnt be achieved in a 
stakeholder (if that was the case).  But it didnt.
I considered whether I thought the advice to switch  to the new platform  and investment was 
suitable. In doing so I considered examples given by the Regulator of what  might not 
constitute suitable advice for a pension switch. In particular the following:
A pension thats more  expensive than a stakeholder pension but a stakeholder would 
have met the customers needs.  No clear reasons are given as to why a stakeholder 
Ref: DRN71926954wouldnt have met Mr Js needs nor why the recommended platform and pension  is 
needed to meet his needs.  At face value a stakeholder wouldve been cheaper. So, I 
dont think the report satisfactorily demonstrated why the stakeholder wouldnt meet  
Mr Js needs.
A more expensive pension to consolidate  different pension schemes but where the 
cost was not explained or justified. Its clear  for the reasons  already given that the 
new platform, investment  and service are more expensive but there is no clear 
reason given why this platform is appropriate to meet Mr Js needs. I say that 
because although  the proposal is explained there is no explanation as to how the 
proposal meets the identified needs of Mr J nor why it is better than other options that 
mightve been available to Mr J.
An ATR needs to be matched to circumstances. The report  doesnt clearly  identify 
what investment term is aimed  at; short, medium or long. While BH says that Mr J 
wouldve moved into drawdown and a longer term was appropriate, that isnt 
explained. So, I dont  think  there  is any clear explanation  as to why this solution 
matched his ATR.
Sometimes an adviser may have taken insufficient note of the customers investment 
knowledge and experience. It is clear  that Mr J had limited investment experience. As 
BH points out he hadnt appreciated that the terminal  bonus on his old policies was 
discretionary and could be removed.  It referred to his existing ISA but Mr J said he 
took this out based  on advice from the bank which provided  it. BH suggests the ISA 
and his property  investment  shows  a level of sophistication but I dont  agree. Offering 
a single property  for rent and taking  out an ISA as guided by a bank doesnt show Mr 
J had extensive  experience and understanding of different  asset  classes.  Further 
BHs own comments about his lack of understanding of the terminal  bonus support 
that view.
I also thought  there  were  procedural failings in the advice. I said that because I didnt think  
the report clearly explained  why this product, provider or service  met his specific  needs nor 
why they were recommended in preference to other  options. Instead the report  said it was 
recommended following  BHs research but doesnt explain further. Although  the report  said 
that when a recommendation is made, the specific  reasons for selecting the product type 
and the product provider are clearly stated,  that doesnt seem  to have happened here.
So for all these reasons  I didnt think the advice to switch  the pension  to this platform and 
service was suitable for Mr J.
The switch  of the ISA and general  account
The investment suitability report repeats the ATR and capacity for loss in the pension  report.
While not mentioned in the objectives within the report  BHs recommendation to transfer the 
ISA and general account said Mr J wishes to consolidate  his ISA with other pensions  and 
investments onto a wrap  to reduce overall portfolio management charges and for ease of 
administration.
The investment strategy suggests an assets based approach and describes this as a mix of 
different asset  classes with the aim of capturing performance at different stages of the 
economic cycle and hence reduced volatility and risk of losing money over time by holding 
assets uncorrelated with each other. It says it should reduce volatility  and reduce the risk of 
Ref: DRN71926955loss and offers diversification. There is no specific explanation as to why this mix is 
appropriate for Mr Js ATR nor why this diversification is any better than that offered in the 
existing ISA.
It compared the existing asset  allocation of the ISA and general  account with the new 
balanced portfolio it proposed, which used more than 15 individual  funds. I note that the 
existing ISA account already included a range of asset classes  including equities, fixed  
interest, property and money market asset  classes. The new portfolio also included  a 
broadly similar range of asset classes but in slightly different proportions  and geographical 
spread. It recommended  various funds available on the platform some  of which were at 
lower rates.  It said its quarterly review  process  determines changes in fund selection  and 
relative weighting.  It presented a graph showing performance relative historic performance  
over 4 years gross of any charges. It said that volatility of both the old and new was similar 
but performance better. 
Switch in platform
Part of the justification for the switch was to allow administrative  ease of holding all 
investments in one place  and the ease of review and reporting.  I note however  that the ISA 
and general account were  already  with one provider so I dont think this provides a clear 
reason to switch.
Suitable advice
There is no clear  link between the portfolio suggested  and the risk profile as BH doesnt 
explain why it thinks this mix of assets is most  appropriate for Mr J and his circumstances. 
While there  is a clear intention to continue  to use the annual  ISA allowance  and fund this 
from the general account there is no comment about how this fits with the asset realisation 
plan. For example, if the intention was to use ISA assets before  the pension  assets  this 
mightve dictated a shorter term investment objective but no comment is made as to why the 
proposed mix matches  the objective. I note also that the existing investments were in one 
investment vehicle across  a similar range of asset  classes, rather  than separate funds that 
required regular rebalancing to ensure the ideal asset mix was maintained. There  is certainly 
a sense in which the new ISA platform and investment is like to like.
BH suggests the historic performance  of the new portfolio  would have outperformed his 
existing investment every year in the last four. But the model shown is gross of charges so 
doesnt reflect the impact of this and the fact they were higher (see comments  below).  Given  
also that the new portfolio would have been  rebalanced regularly the portfolio AMC would 
have changed  constantly due to the differing underlying AMC of each of the 17 funds and 
the differing proportions in which they were  held.
It says the AMCs may be lower due to discounts  that the platform  receives  and is cheaper 
than going direct. However I dont think this is a fair comparison. It seems very unlikely that 
17 different direct investment accounts wouldnt  have been practical. The practical  difficulties 
of managing so many  direct accounts  and the challenge of rebalancing would be almost  
impossible, so I think this is a meaningless comparison. The better comparison is the 
existing investment, that offers  a very similar  mix of diversified assets  and are managed  at a 
lower cost.
Charges
Ref: DRN71926956BH says the charges are similar even including the 1% for investment advice annual cost 
and financial  planning annual cost. These are essential parts  of the new approach as the 
portfolio requires regular review  to ensure the proportion of each class remains in balance  
with BHs  advice. 
I thought the report was misleading. It presents a table comparing costs of 1.9%  (old) 1.01% 
(new), and concludes  the new offer is cheaper. While the report presents the 1% additional 
cost for advice and planning this is presented separately and not included in the overall 
comparison. So I think the report was misleading. In reality the new offer was more 
expensive in total being 1.9% (old) compared to 2.1% (new). That also assumed  the 0.69% 
AMC for the new would  remain correct.  In reality the 0.69% AMC across 17 funds  must  be 
an average and could be higher or lower  depending on the proportion  in each fund from time 
to time.
I note that regulator  guidance has given examples of unsuitable  advice where it said the 
comparison of charges missed out the cost of review/discretionary management  such  that 
the comparison was misleading. In my view that was the case here.
I have also considered that Mr J complains  he didnt realise  the magnitude of the cost of 
initial advice.  However I note that the report clearly sets out both the percentage charges 
and their amount.  So, I think  it shouldve  been clear from the report how much these would 
be. While  the copy  of the report I hold is unsigned  I have assumed that Mr J received a copy  
at the time as he hasnt disputed this. However,  I dont think those costs and their impact  
was reflected or considered  in the comparison of performance particularly given there  was 
no saving to be achieved  in switching.
On balance I didnt  think the advice to switch to the new platform  was suitable for Mr J. 
I said that for the reasons  discussed above but in particular because:-  
the existing  investment  already  offered a diversified mix of asset classes  so the 
diversification of the new product isnt on its own a good justification to switch 
the existing  investment  was cheaper  and the cost comparison misleading
there is no justification as to why or how the proposed investment matched Mr Js 
ATR and no explanation as to whether the aim was a short, medium  or long term, nor 
the fit with the intended order of realisation  of assets on retirement. 
Mr Js stated objective was to consolidate his ISA with other pensions and 
investments onto a wrap  to reduce overall portfolio management charges and for 
ease of administration. The position  on charges isnt met for the reasons given and 
the issue of ease of administration  not justified as the ISA and general  account  were 
already held with a single  provider.
Switch to a new platform and discretionary fund management service
BH prepared  two reports in early  2015.  One to review his two occupational pensions and 
concluded he shouldnt  transfer them. The second report considered the new discretionary 
investment management  service which required  a transfer to a new platform. The purpose  of 
the report was to outline this new service and compare it to the existing service.
Ref: DRN71926957The report  compares the costs of the old service and new. This showed a cost of 2.02% for 
the total cost of the existing ISA advisory service  compared  to a 2.24% cost of the new 
discretionary service on the new platform. The pension cost is shown as 2.02%  (old) and 
2.36 (new). While there  is extensive  explanation of how the new service and platform works  
and why BH thinks this is positive there  is no indication why this new service and platform  is 
appropriate for Mr J specifically nor why the additional cost is merited. 
The regulator provided extensive  guidance in 2012 on the introduction of centralised 
investment propositions including discretionary investment management. I have reviewed 
that guidance and note it mentions several issues but in particular it said:-
Firms must  show  the costs of the investment solution recommended  are in the 
clients best interest and presented in a way that the client is likely to understand.
The recommendation is suitable given the clients specific objectives
The firm must ensure it is not shoe  horning clients  into the new offer.
Having reviewed these  issues in the light of the report I have considered a few issues. I dont 
think the report demonstrated why it was in Mr Js best interest and even  if I am wrong  in 
that I dont  think it did it in a way that he was likely to understand. I say that because the 
report doesnt seem to be tailored to him and his circumstances and he says he felt he was 
paying for services  he wasnt receiving, so clearly  didnt  understand  what he was getting.
Because the report isnt tailored to his circumstances it doesnt show  it was suitable for him. 
For all the reasons given  I dont  think the report content was suitable for Mr J. Whether or 
not the report was actual  advice I think Mr J wouldve  construed  it as such  and for the 
reasons given I dont  think the move to the new platform  and investment  service was 
suitable for him.
Service complaint and delay in transfer
I have reviewed the correspondence about this. I note that Mr J complained  and following 
that a new adviser  was appointed and he subsequently  visited Mr J. It seems some of the 
emails from BH werent reaching Mr J which meant  that in 2014  he didnt reply to requests 
for investment instructions  and didnt receive the quarterly review.
I can see that the managing director took steps to appease Mr J in his response to the first 
complaint made, and by replacing  his advisor  and that a successful meeting did take place  
and Mr J commented that: He alleviated all my fears about the lack of communication I had 
received .. (under the previous adviser) .. and promised a vast improvement. However,  I 
also note that was the only meeting that took place.  I note also that Mr J was satisfied with 
the adjudicators  view on this aspect of his complaint so I havent  considered  further.
I note also that his complaint about the delay in transfer was said to relate to a new provider 
and hasnt been explored further. So I have assumed the cause of the delay wasnt due to 
BH.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint.
My aim was that Mr J should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would  
probably now be in if he had been  given  suitable  advice.
Ref: DRN71926958I took the view that Mr J would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what I set out was fair and 
reasonable given Mr J's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. I set out a method 
to calculate the loss.
Response to my provisional decision.
Mr J said he signed up with BH to put his money in one place with a view to retiring  at 55 or 
latest 60. He was told he was paying a small fortune to his existing provider and was 
promised 5% annual  profit.  He did not feel he was warned about  the significant  sign up cost. 
When he became aware of it he tried to pull out but was threatened with a big bill.
While initial communication was good up to sign up, thereafter it was terrible.  Things didnt 
improve after the change  in adviser  and he didnt really think the change  was anything more  
than presentation  and his old adviser  was really still responsible. Hed had to resort  to 
getting information direct from the platform provider.
When they changed to the new platform from the insurance company he didnt understand 
and thought BH were managing his account.  He wasnt an experienced investor  which was 
why he trusted BH and gave them authority. This was his life savings and he couldnt work 
again (due to health) by the time the fund was going downhill.
He didnt own a second property. His wife had inherited one that was rented out.
Overall he felt treated  with contempt and he still held records  of poor and no communication 
from BH and could supply  them if needed. He also wanted any award payment checked to 
ensure its correct as he didnt trust BH.
BH said it didnt agree  with the decision. It said it felt there were a number of issues  that 
hadnt been taken into account in reaching the decision. This information was crucial and 
meant the proposed decision was incorrect.
BH said that;-
After the initial meeting with Mr J in early October 2013  a summary email  was sent 
which confirmed he would look to sell his house  post retirement and use all of his 
cash reserves (£10,000) before accessing any of his investments. In April 2016, after 
his retirement Mr J did just that and sold for £222,000. This created additional cash 
reserves as was his original intention. Therefore the term to retirement became 
largely immaterial and irrelevant as Mr J had no reason to access any of his ISA or 
pension funds for a considerable length of time. Had he planned  to access these 
there wouldve  been damage to his overall  wealth  due to inflation risk. This meant the 
immediate effect of charges had been considered in deeming the transfer suitable as 
the fund had sufficient time- 15 year or more- to recoup the impact of the initial 
charges. Mr J also had the option to pay the fees direct rather than through his 
investments. After explaining  the tax implications  Mr J opted to take the fee from the 
wrapper. This also allowed him to preserve his cash as outlined  in the original email.
It said that I had stated that the platform he transferred into was sophisticated and 
that a stakeholder pension would have been more  appropriate. It said it didnt agree 
the initial platform was sophisticated it merely offered Mr J access to 3,500 funds as 
Ref: DRN71926959opposed to 67 with the existing provider. In fact it was a pension investment  account  
so the term SIPP may not be appropriate as it didnt offer a complete SIPP function 
which it agreed would generally be associated with a Sophisticated Investor.
It agreed that having a buy to let property didnt make Mr J a sophisticated  investor.  
However it felt the investment portfolio of shares with another provided did support 
this.
It mentioned that in 2014  Mr J became ill. This was specifically considered  at the 
review in November  that year.  
It said its commitment  to annual reviews was evidenced  by the meeting in November 
2014 and quarterly reviews are evidenced  by their mailing list. Given the illness and 
the complaints  about not receiving  emails it decided  that operating on an advisory 
basis where consent was needed  wasnt working and it decided to operate on a 
discretionary basis that allowed  regular reviews  but didnt require in depth quarterly 
reports that Mr J had to read,  understand and authorise.
It queried the parties to the complaint. It said that a separate company provided  the 
investment management, but it did the planning  and advice  service.
It said that following  Mr Js illness there was a lot of confusion. Its risk questionnaire  
said he had a balanced attitude  to risk however by July 2015  Mr J says  not gaining  
money is a poor option, losing money  is an option  I dont want to consider. Whereas 
he had confirmed an approach of capital  growth  with small risk to capital. It felt this 
showed that following his illness Mr J was confused.  It therefore felt its letter to Mr J 
in November 2014 adequately set the scene  as to how to operate  on a discretionary 
basis that would be advantageous to him given his illness.
It had made efforts to work with Mr J to meet his objectives but felt the language  and 
tone of his communication referred to them as a mob so it was clear  it was facing 
difficulties. 
It wanted to be clear  who was the correct party to the complaint.  It said that Mr J 
complained of poor investment performance and poor communication and 
performances not meeting expectations. While  it was responsible for investment 
performance under the first platform it wasnt clear who was responsible for 
performance after implementation of the discretionary  platform.
It also attached various documents and commented on them:-
oFirst platform sign up document  clearly  showing the effect  of charges
oFirst platform adviser charges document  Mr J confirmed seeing and 
agreeing to this
oLetter  November 2014 outlining  change in personal health and evidence of 
review
oVSP  providing the service and payment options
oZoopla screen shot showing the sale of the house in 2016
oCopy email from Mr J demonstrating condition around his ATR and use of 
poor tone. 
oScreen shot of his SIPP showing self managed  funds
Ref: DRN719269510my second  provisional  decision
I considered what Mr J says but felt I had already considered the issues in my first 
provisional decision. However Mr J continues to maintain that the service  from BH didnt 
improve and he felt treated with contempt.  I could  see that the relationship  was breaking 
down as is evidenced by some of the correspondence. I felt that the service complaint had 
been resolved  and the decision of the investigator  accepted. However Mr J doesnt  seem to 
accept that so I have  reconsidered this further in the light of the comments from BH below.
I note also that Mr J wishes  this service to check any calculations  of compensation but I 
regret that isnt something that this service can do.
Taking each of the points made  by BH I commented as follows:-
BH said the sale of the house  meant  Mr J had no reason  to access  any of his ISA or 
pension funds for a considerable length of time and therefore  the investment horizon 
was longer and had sufficient time- 15 year or more-  to recoup the impact of the 
initial charges.
I agree  that the 2013 note of a meeting with Mr J says that the main  home  would be 
sold as it was too large and that he would  use cash  reserves before pensions,  and 
would draw his occupational  pension  at 60 before his money  purchase pension.  It 
goes on to say that it would  prepare a forecast of income at 55 and 60 based  on 
rental income and using  capital to maintain lifestyle. Mr J doesnt seem to have 
disputed this at the time as the note asks him to indicate if any statements were 
inaccurate. The 2014 letter similarly  refers to the sale of the home  and using 
proceeds to pay for holidays  etc.
However this is not expressly cross referred  to in the advice to support the 
investment term which would have made it clear to Mr J. Read together with the 
advice it does provide  a longer time horizon for investment but I dont  think that was 
clearly explained  in the subsequent advice. Even if I am wrong in that conclusion I 
gave other  reasons why I thought the advice was unsuitable and those remain  the 
same.
In reality Mr J said he did sell his house  but the sale proceeds were used to clear  
debt and buy another property to live in. So the proceeds were not available for 
income. Mr J has also said that the rental property was not his.
 Mr J also had the option to pay the fees direct  rather  than through his investments. 
After explaining the tax implications Mr J opted to take the fee from the wrapper. This 
also allowed him to preserve his cash as outlined  in the original email. Mr J said he 
hadnt clearly understood the fee until he was notified and left with no choice.
However this makes no difference to my decision. I accepted  that details of charges  
were set out in the report which Mr J shouldve been aware of. However I said that 
the charges were higher  and the impact  not fully explained to Mr J for the reasons 
already given in my provisional decision.
It said that I had stated that the platform he transferred into was sophisticated and 
that a stakeholder pension would have been more  appropriate. 
Ref: DRN719269511But that isnt correct. My provisional decision said that having  considered  Regulator 
guidance the report didnt explain why this product  was more  suitable than a 
Stakeholder as it shouldve. That isnt saying that a Stakeholder wouldve met his 
needs.
It agreed that having a buy to let property didnt make Mr J a sophisticated  investor.  
However it felt the investment portfolio of shares with another provider did support 
this. 
Mr J commented that he didnt own a buy to let property and BH must be referring to 
a property his wife had inherited. 
My provisional decision referred to Regulator  guidance about considering the level of 
investment experience which  I said was limited. I referred to the buy to let property 
(which we now know wasnt  owned  by Mr J and was inherited by his wife not bought 
for rental) and a single  ISA/investment  account  taken out on advice from a bank. So I 
remain of the view that Mr J had limited investment experience based on a single ISA 
and general investment account. It provided  a copy of a screen shot of his new 
platform provider but it is undated and includes no client name so it isnt clear  it was 
relevant at the time.  
It mentioned that in 2014  Mr J became ill. It argues this was specifically considered  at 
the review in November  that year and implies  it gave justification for the change to 
discretionary investment. BH implied that Mr J became  less capable of dealing and 
this justified the move to discretionary  management.  
It seems  BH formed this view without any medical  evidence to support it. I dont think  
it was qualified to draw that conclusion and the law would indicates  it should assume 
capacity. Even if it had concluded there  were issues it should have taken steps to 
follow the law and/or get specialist advice and ensure Mr J was represented 
appropriately and/ or fully understood, but it didnt. It seems to be saying it made a 
unilateral decision that discretionary management was better for him and possibly 
easier for them as they didnt need  to get instructions re investment changes. In any 
event it didnt refer to this issue  in the report as a specific justification  and reason  as 
to why the change was appropriate to him. So this hasnt changed my view.
It said its commitment  to annual reviews was evidenced  by the meeting in November 
2014 and quarterly reviews are evidenced  by their mailing list. Given the illness and 
the complaints  about not receiving  emails it decided  that operating on an advisory 
basis, where consent was needed,  wasnt as good as changing to operate on a 
discretionary basis that allowed  regular reviews  but didnt require in depth quarterly 
reports that Mr J had to read,  understand and authorise. 
I dont think putting  Mr J on a mailing list for generic updates is evidence of reviews 
as they dont involve any specific personal analysis and advice. I have already 
commented on the conclusion about the impact of his health. I think  this supports Mr 
Js evidence that he wasnt receiving what was promised. His feeling of being  treated 
with contempt is also supported by the approach  BH was taking. I say that because it 
seems to have concluded  that Mr J was confused and not capable  of making 
decision and without  medical advice presents that as justification for a switch  to 
discretionary management. This isnt clearly  explained  to Mr J and I can understand 
Ref: DRN719269512could create  a feeling of being held in contempt. It is clear  from the correspondence  
that this was causing distress and the relationship  between the parties wasnt  
improving. I have therefore considered and award for distress  and inconvenience. I 
think an award of £250 would  be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It queried the parties to the complaint. It said that a separate company provided  the 
investment management but it did the planning  and advice service.  It said Mr J 
complains about investment performance  and service. 
This service has powers to enquire  and help complainants  shape their complaint. 
The complaint against BH is one about the suitability of the advice received and 
service from them. The relevant reports that resulted  in the change in platforms and 
investments are all in the name of BH chartered financial planners. So I am satisfied 
this complaint is against the correct party that provided the advice Mr J relied  on. I 
have provisionally  concluded that the advice wasnt suitable for the reasons given. 
That may have resulted  in a financial loss. However  only once those calculations are 
completed will it be clear  whether the advice has resulted in an actual loss. 
It said that following  his illness there  was a lot of confusion.  Its risk questionnaire said 
he had a balanced attitude to risk however by July 2015 Mr J says not gaining 
money is a poor option, losing money  is an option  I dont want to consider. Whereas 
he had confirmed an approach of capital  growth  with small risk to capital. It felt this 
showed that following his illness Mr J was confused.  It therefore felt its letter to Mr J 
in November 2014 adequately set the scene  as to how to operate  on a discretionary 
basis that would be advantageous to him given his illness. 
But I dont agree. If it thought Mr J was confused it shouldve taken appropriate 
specialist advice and followed  the law. Instead it seems it made assumptions 
unsupported by evidence  and not explained  to Mr J.
It had made efforts to work with Mr J to meet his objectives but felt the language  and 
tone of his communication referred to them as a mob so it was clear  it was facing 
difficulties. 
The evidence shows the relationship was becoming  more difficult  but that didnt  
relieve BH of any of their professional or contractual  responsibilities to Mr J.
It wanted to be clear  who was the correct party to the complaint.  It said that Mr J 
complained of poor investment performance and poor communication and 
performances not meeting expectations. While  it was responsible for investment 
performance under the first platform it wasnt clear who was responsible for 
performance after implementation of the discretionary  platform.  
I have already commented on this above.
It also attached various documents and commented on them. I have reviewed these 
but they havent changed my mind.  
I proposed to uphold  this complaint.
I proposed to direct that Bartholomew Hawkins  Ltd should pay Mr J an amount of £250 for 
distress and inconvenience and such further  amount  as calculated  in accordance with the 
Ref: DRN719269513proposed calculation to measure loss.
Mr J responded to repeat that he didnt  think service improved after his complaint and didnt 
improve. It wasnt correct to say that he was happy because he didnt complaint further, in 
reality he was still sending  emails complaining about the service. He remained of the view 
that he delayed  transfer was due to BH. He felt the amount of £250 compensation didnt 
reflect the impact on him including his sleepless nights and time. He felt he should  be 
awarded a higher amount  due to the way he had been messed  around  from the start.  He 
said the change  to the new platform was never  explained and he was told it was better not 
that it would  cost more.
He wasnt clear why BH queries which company was responsible.  He remained unhappy 
that BH would be doing the calculations.
BH didnt  reply directly  to this service but eventually sent us a copy  of an email it had sent 
direct to Mr J. The email  said that while it didnt fully agree with my findings it was willing to 
make an ex gratia payment of £250  and to compensate  for any loss of performance that may 
have occurred in the period from inception, which it said was 9th April 2015 to the date of 
disinvestment which was 7th March 2017.  It had compared the performance  of the fund with 
that of the FTSE  UK Private Investor Index and this showed there  wasnt  a loss as its fund 
had outperformed the index by 1.51%. However,  when comparing the return  after deducting 
fees there was a loss of 0.4%. After income  tax of £46.15 it said there  was a payment due of 
£323.05 which it was willing  to pay.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I havent  changed  my 
mind for the reasons  below.
I note Mr Js comments about  service  from BH and that he is clear matters  didnt  improve  
after his initial complaint and that my statement the matter was resolved  wasnt correct. I 
have however already taken this into account in reaching my second  provisional decision.
An award for distress  and inconvenience is designed to reflect the non financial impact  on 
Mr J, its purpose  isnt to punish BH. I note what Mr J says about  the impact  on him. I have 
reconsidered the amount of the award  in the light of what Mr J has said. But I remain  of the 
view that an amount of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and consistent with 
the amount of award that this service would  award where the impact  has required additional 
time and has clearly created worry and lost sleep  for Mr J. 
I note what Mr J says about the platform but would comment that the higher  costs of the new 
platform were  set out in the report he was sent. As I said, I didnt think those costs were  
clearly explained  and this is part of the reason I have concluded the advice  was not suitable 
and therefore  proposed  an award for financial loss.
With respect to the delayed transfer Mr J couldnt provide evidence to support his contention 
that the delay  was due to BH. So, I am unable to consider the matter  further and Mr J said 
he had suffered so much  trouble  he didnt  want to pursue this further. 
Ref: DRN719269514As I said in my provisional decision this service cannot check  the calculation  of loss 
prepared by BH. However,  it remains open  to Mr J to get it checked by a third party  should  
he feel this is needed.
It appears that BH has accepted  my proposed award given its communication with Mr J. 
However, I would  say that I cannot validate that the dates  it quotes for the start and end are 
correct nor the outcome of the calculations is correct. 
I note it doesnt  seem  to have made  any provision for the application  of 8% per annum 
simple as set out in the proposed award or to detail  the amounts due for the ISA and general 
account nor reflected that income tax wouldnt be payable on the amount due in respect of 
the ISA. 
Nor has BH provided  details of how the calculation was completed  and there  is no 
information about the calculations for each of the different funds (e.g. pension,  ISA and 
general account).  
For those reasons, my direction remains unchanged.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd should pay Mr J an amount  of £250 for distress  and 
inconvenience and such further amount as calculated in accordance  with the proposed 
calculations to measure  loss set out below.
My aim is that Mr J should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr J would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr J's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd do?
pension redress
To compensate Mr J fairly, Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd should add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Bartholomew  Hawkins Ltd should pay into Mr J's pension plan to 
increase its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
amount paid should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
Ref: DRN719269515existing protection  or allowance. 
If Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd is unable to pay the total amount into Mr J's pension 
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable income.  Therefore  the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr J's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Bartholomew Hawkins  Ltd deducts  
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. Bartholomew 
Hawkins Ltd should give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index  date of 
investment  in 
the first 
platformdate 
transferred  
out of the 
second 
platform8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Bartholomew 
Hawkins Ltd should use the monthly  average  rate for the fixed  rate bonds  with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  
as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates should be applied  to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr J wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
Ref: DRN719269516with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
The additional interest is for being  deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Ref: DRN719269517ISA and general  account redress
Using the same bench mark and methodology as above, calculate  any potential  loss or
gain if the advice given was to transfer into a simple  ISA/general account without any advice 
and review or discretionary advice. No tax would be payable.
Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd should provide details of its calculations  for the Pension, ISA and 
general account to Mr J in a clear, simple format  to enable him to check  the amounts it says 
are payable. 
The amount  directed to be payable by Bartholomew  Hawkins Ltd must be paid within 30 
days of the later of us notifying it that Mr J has accepted  my final decision. 
If Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd pays later than this it must also pay further interest  on the 
compensation from the date of the final decision  until the date of payment at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.
If Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd considers it is legally required  to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must send  a tax deduction  certificate with the payment so that Mr J can reclaim  
the tax if she is able to.
I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business of up to £150,000,  plus any 
interest and/or costs/  interest on costs  that I think are appropriate. If I think that fair 
compensation may be more than £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the 
balance.
Award
I direct  that Bartholomew Hawkins Ltd should pay compensation  to Mr J of the amount 
produced by the calculations above  up to a maximum  of £150,000 plus interest.  
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000 plus interest, I recommend  that Bartholomew Hawkins  Ltd pays Mr J the 
balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Bartholomew  Hawkins Ltd 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr J can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision if he thinks it is likely that the award could  exceed  
£150,000. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7192695