K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) dealt  with her after she made a claim. 
background
Mrs G took out an annual travel insurance  policy with Mapfre  in late 2018, shortly before  she 
went on holiday with her family. 
Towards the end of the trip Mrs Gs son became unwell  and she contacted Mapfre  for 
assistance. Mrs G explained she didnt have the policy documents to hand and she gave 
Mapfre a different name to the name  the policy was under. Due to this confusion  Mapfre was 
unable to find her policy.
Following this call, Mrs G took her son to a doctor for medical assistance. During this journey  
she fell and broke her ankle and shes unhappy with the way Mapfre handled her 
subsequent claim. Mapfre has now covered the costs incurred but she remains  unhappy 
that:
Mapfre didnt provide her with her policy documents  at any point.
Mapfre couldnt locate  her policy when she originally got in touch about her sons illness .
Mapfre didnt upgrade or assist her with her flight home and she had to sort this out 
herself.
Mapfre didnt respond to queries.
Mapfre used an incorrect exchange rate when  calculating the reimbursement for her 
medical treatment.
Mapfre didnt pay for the medical  treatment and equipment she received  after returning 
to the UK.
Shes unhappy with the way Mapfre handled  her complaint about the way her claim was 
handled.
The investigator who reviewed the complaint latterly thought Mapfre  had dealt with the claim 
promptly and fairly.  And where there had been errors in settling the claim she thought  
Mapfre rectified them quickly.  So she didnt think  the complaint  should be upheld.  Mrs G 
didnt agree but didnt provide any new information or explain why she disagreed with the 
investigators findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
The crux of Mrs Gs complaint, and the part of it that appears to have caused her the most 
distress, is that Mapfre didnt make arrangements for her to return home on her scheduled  
flight. I can understand why this wouldve been  stressful for Mrs G; she was clearly  eager to 
return home on her scheduled flight.  But Mapfres medical panel  needed  to assess the 
situation as a whole in order to decide,  firstly,  if Mrs G was covered under the policy.  And 
then, if she was covered,  what  the best and safest  course of action was to get her home 
given her medical condition. 
Ref: DRN73385602Ive listened to the calls between Mapfre and Mrs G when she first reported the accident and 
then when she confirmed  her ankle was broken. And I note it explained the steps it needed  
to take and gave no guarantees it would be able to offer her assistance. Mapfre explained  it 
would be in touch  once a decision had been made.  And Im satisfied her claim was 
escalated promptly after Mapfre received her claim documentation.
Mapfres medical panel assessed the information to decide the best cause of action within 
hours of receipt  and decided it needed to know more about Mrs Gs medication before it 
could make suitable arrangements for her return home. I dont think  that was unreasonable.
Its unfortunate that when Mapfre tried to call Mrs G to get the extra information it was unable 
to speak to her. But Mapfre has provided evidence this call was attempted and a voicemail 
was left. I dont doubt Mrs G didnt receive the call  the two emails  she sent to Mapfre 
subsequently made  no mention of it  but I dont think that was Mapfres  fault. And Im not 
persuaded it shouldve repeatedly tried to contact her after leaving the voicemail message. 
As Ive mentioned,  its responsibility to Mrs G was to get her home safely, not solely to 
ensure she could travel home on her original  flight. And even if contact  had been  made  
sooner, I cant say this wouldve meant Mapfre could have managed to get Mrs G on her 
original flight. I say that because Mapfre confirmed it required  her to be on anti-coagulant 
medication for her travel home,  yet this hadnt been prescribed by the hospital and Mrs G 
may not have been able to arrange  that in the short time before her original  flight was due to 
leave.
Untimely, Mrs G made the decision to upgrade her own seat on the original flight without 
waiting for Mapfres decision on her claim. And Mapfre reimbursed this cost as part of 
dealing with her claim.  As such, Im satisfied Mapfre has handled this part of the claim fairly.
Mrs G raised a number of other issues with the way her claim was handled and the 
investigator explained why she didnt think Mapfre had done anything wrong. Mrs G didnt 
provide any new information  for me to consider and so I shant repeat everything  the 
investigator said. But I would say I agree with her conclusions, in particular that:
Having listened  to calls that took place between Mrs G and Mapfre  Im satisfied that 
overall it acted fairly, promptly  and professionally  in dealing  with Mrs Gs claim. 
Its clear from the recordings that some  of the problems Mrs G experienced werent  
entirely Mapfres fault. For example, it couldnt  find her policy when she first called about 
her sons  illness because she didnt  have the policy number and gave a different name to 
the one given when the policy was taken out. 
It seems  likely Mapfre sent her policy documents because she told it during  the first call 
that shed received  information about the policy and filed it on her laptop. That fits with 
Mapfres assertion that the policy was applied for online and the related documentation  
was then emailed.
Mapfre initially used the wrong  exchange rate but put this right when Mrs G pointed  it 
out. Our role is not to punish businesses for mistakes  like this but to assess the likely  
impact and any losses such  mistakes  cause. Mrs G hasnt provided  any persuasive 
evidence that this, relatively minor, mistake has caused a loss that hasnt already been 
put right. 
Ref: DRN73385603The policy doesnt cover the medical costs Mrs G incurred when she returned  to the UK 
and I dont think its Mapfres fault the medical aid the overseas hospital  provided was 
unsuitable. So I think it was fair for Mapfre to refuse to pay out on this part of the claim.
The investigator also explained why she didnt think we would be able to consider  Mrs Gs 
concerns about  the way her subsequent complaint was handled by Mapfre.  And in this 
particular case I agree this is the correct course  of action for the reasons the investigator has 
already given.
Id also note that I havent seen anything which has caused me concern about the customer  
service provided by Mapfre on the whole. It appears Mapfre  dealt with the complaint in a 
timely manner and continued to deal with the claim separately.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7338560