K820x#14Complaint
Mr C, represented by Miss A, entered  into a conditional sale agreement  with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) in 2015 
to acquire a car. He complains that BPF didnt update his address on his account and so 
letters went  to an old address meaning he was unaware of the court action  being  taken 
against him. 
Background
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement  with BPF in July 2015 to acquire a car. 
Miss A says that she contacted BPF on behalf of Mr C in February  2018  and during this call 
it was noted that BPF didnt have Mr Cs current address. BPF wouldnt allow  Miss A to 
change this and asked to speak to Mr C. Unfortunately  Mr C didnt pass  the security 
questions and so his address wasnt amended.
Miss A says that BPF carried out a credit  check in May 2018  which  provided Mr Cs current 
address and that it sent a letter to this address in May 2018. However it then sent letters 
regarding the court hearing to Mr C's old address. She says that BPF sent a letter  to Mr C at 
his current address in October 2018  but this arrived after the court hearing had taken place. 
Miss A also said Mr C didnt receive  a response to his complaint.
BPF says that Mr Cs address was updated on 26 October 2018 following confirmation of the 
address from its solicitors. It says it couldnt update his address on the call in February 2018 
as it couldnt verify  the information with Mr C. It says that after receiving returned  
correspondence from the address it had on file for Mr C it used a tracing service to try to find 
Mr Cs new address. A letter was sent in May 2018 asking Mr C to contact it but no contact 
was made.  It says Mr C was required under the terms  of the agreement  to ensure his 
address was up to date.
BPF says that in April 2018, it identified that Mr Cs car didnt have tax, insurance or a MOT. 
In May 2018, it issued  Mr C a default notice requiring action by 11 June 2018. It didnt 
receive a response  from Mr C and his agreement was terminated on 13 June and a Return 
of Goods Order was applied for. This was granted on 24 July 2018. It says it took several 
attempts to locate  and collect the car. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought  BPF acted reasonably  by saying  
on the call in February that it needed to talk with Mr C to confirm the change  of address. 
Then, as Mr C didnt pass security she thought it reasonable he was asked to call back. She 
said BPF had tried to contact Mr C in April and May 2018 but hadnt  been successful. It then 
undertook an auto trace search on Mr Cs address and sent him a letter  asking him to get in 
touch but he didnt. Our investigator didnt think that BPF had done anything wrong in this 
case and so didnt  require it to take further  action. 
Miss A, on Mr Cs behalf, didnt accept  our investigators view and requested  that his case  
be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the information is incomplete, 
Ref: DRN74263892unclear or contradictory, as some  of it is here I have  to base  my opinion  on the balance of 
probabilities.
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement  with BPF and in doing  so agreed to its terms 
and conditions. These included maintaining the car, ensuring it had a MOT certificate and 
keeping it insured. This didnt happen  and so BPF took action  including sending a default 
notice and then terminating the agreement.  A court hearing took place and a return of goods 
order was put in place. As this issue has been  the subject of court  action I cannot comment 
further on this aspect of this case.
Mr Cs complaint is that he wasnt made aware of the situation in regard to the court  hearing 
because letters were  sent to an old address. I have looked at the address on Mr Cs 
agreement and can see that letters were sent to this address for a period of time.  
Under the terms of the agreement, it was Mr C's responsibility to ensure that BPF had his up 
to date address.  I have  listened to the call that took place in February 2018. On this it 
becomes apparent at the address BPF has for Mr C isnt up to date.  The BPF advisers 
explains what needs to happen in order for the address to be updated and I find it 
reasonable that it required Mr C to provide  the new details and that he needed to pass  
security for this. As this didnt happen I do not find that BPF did anything  wrong  by not 
updating the address at that time.
Mr C was asked to call back to complete this action but I have nothing  to show  that this 
happened.
As Mr Cs address hadnt been updated, correspondence, including  the default notice was 
sent to Mr Cs old address  (the address on his agreement). Items were  returned and so BPF 
carried out an auto trace. This resulted in a letter  being sent to Mr C at his current  address 
but as he didnt respond to this the new address  couldnt be confirmed.
Further action was taken  in regard to Mr Cs agreement and court proceedings started. I 
appreciate that Mr C wasnt aware of this due to his address not being  updated.  However, as 
BPF had asked him to call back in February to update the address and had sent a letter  to 
the new address  asking  for contact to be made,  I find it had taken the steps it needed  to try 
to contact Mr C. 
Therefore I do not find that BPF did anything wrong  in regard to the updating of Mr Cs 
address. I understand it was updated in October 2018  following  confirmation from BPFs 
solicitors.
Miss A also said that Mr Cs complaint wasnt responded to and just holding letters were 
sent. I note that holding  letters were  sent but also that a final response letter was sent dated 
30 November 2018. While  I appreciate Mr C may not have received this, on balance, I 
accept it was sent and I find that BPF responded  to Mr Cs complaint in a timely way.
Overall, while  I appreciate this has been  an upsetting experience  for Mr C, I do not find that 
BPF did anything wrong and therefore I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN74263893My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7426389