K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  didnt pay her full claim 
under her pet insurance policy. She also complains about its handling of her claim. 
My references to RSA include its agent. 
background
Miss S had a policy with RSA covering her dogs B and F. Miss S made  claims to RSA 
because B had cancer. Sadly he had to be put to sleep in October  2018. 
RSA paid the claims but not in full. It didnt pay for the nutraceuticals  prescribed by her vet 
to help protect Bs liver.  This is because this type of supplement, which is available without a 
prescription isnt covered under its policy terms. 
Miss S wasnt happy with RSAs decision not to pay the claim. She said a member of its staff 
had spoken to her very insensitively, given that she had a dog dying with cancer.  RSA 
looked into her complaint.  It said sorry for its poor service and its staff members manner. By 
way of compensation it paid her just over £360, which  was the same amount it had deducted 
from the claim for the supplements and policy excess. 
Miss S came  to us. She thought RSA had taken too long to give her its decision and she 
didnt think the policy terms  were clear. RSA had asked her if she wanted  to renew the policy 
even though it was aware  that B had been  put to sleep. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought RSA had fairly declined the claim in 
line with the policy terms. RSA had acknowledged  its call handling had been poor and 
insensitive but our investigator  thought its payment to Miss S for poor service  was 
reasonable. RSA had explained that it did remove B from the policy  after hed been put to 
sleep but the renewal  was for her other  dog F. It had now cancelled the policy and written  
off the premium of just under  £48 as a gesture of goodwill.  
Miss S didnt agree with the outcome. She said it had taken RSA from February to October  
2018 to tell her that supplements werent  covered. Also, her vet had provided a supporting 
statement that the supplements were prescribed as treatment for Bs liver disease, and not 
as a supplement.  
RSA responded  to say that its position on supplements had been explained both in the 
policy wording and in the claim decision on 6 August 2018.  The supplements were 
specifically excluded under the policy even if they were treating Bs condition. It had 
reviewed the email from Miss Ss vet but this didnt change the position.  With regard to any 
poor service it said the £360 compensation it had paid was more than sufficient. 
Our investigator explained RSA had maintained its position about  the supplements. As 
Miss S still thought  this was unfair the complaint has been  referred  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73572922Im sorry  to read about  the circumstances in which Miss S lost her dog B. I need  to consider 
RSAs response to her claim  and complaint. 
I think RSA has made  a reasonable payment to Miss S for both her claim and complaint. So 
for these  reasons  I dont uphold the complaint. I will focus on what  I consider are the main 
issues. 
I think the policy terms are clear. They say that RSA wont pay for supplements,  including 
nutraceuticals that are available without prescription. This is the case  even if the 
supplements are recommended by a vet. RSA did review the vets supporting statement but 
it maintained its decision  on the claim. 
Insurers are entitled to decide  what  they are, and are not, prepared  to cover  under their 
policy terms. RSA has made a decision not to cover supplements including  the type that the 
vet said B should take as treatment for his illness. So I think  RSAs  decision not to pay for 
those supplements was fair. 
RSAs service could have been better.  It has acknowledged this and said sorry for its staff 
members insensitivity. This shouldnt have  happened of course, but I think  RSA responded 
fairly to her complaint by saying sorry. RSA received the claim form on 25 May 2018. It 
asked for further  information promptly from Miss S and her vet. They both responded 
promptly to its enquiries. But it was only when Miss S chased  the claim that RSA paid it. 
RSA sent Miss S a letter with its claim decision saying that £226.72 wasnt  covered because  
it was non-prescription for the reason policy exclusion.  I dont think this explained the 
decision clearly. So Miss S had to call up and that was when RSAs staff member  spoke with 
her insensitively.  That said, he did explain that supplements werent covered under the 
policy terms. 
I think RSAs claim handling and communication could have been better. But it has given 
Miss S an apology and it has paid her just over £360  for its poor service.  This is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation, so I dont require  RSA to do anything more.  
Finally, RSA has explained that the policy renewed for Miss Ss other dog F because it 
hadnt been told she wanted to cancel the policy. It has now written  off the premium having 
been told she didnt  want to renew it. I can see why she found the renewal upsetting  but 
I think RSAs response to her concern was reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I think  Royal  & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc has already  responded reasonably  to it and has paid Miss S a 
fair level of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7357292