K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs J, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr J, says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mrs J, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill go 
through my reasoning.
Mr Js credit card application had a section  for optional features, which  were not a 
necessary part of the credit card. One of those features was PPI. The form explained 
what PPI was for, and had a box Mr J could tick and a place to sign if he wanted it, which 
could be left blank  if he didnt want it. The box was ticked and Mr J signed specifically for 
PPI, separately to signing the application  as a whole. Mrs J pointed out that Mr J didnt 
claim on the policy when  he was off sick in 2013.  But it looks  like thats  because  the PPI 
was cancelled in 2007. Weighing up the evidence, I think  that Lloyds made it clear Mr J 
didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it at the time of the sale.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds gave Mr J a personalised recommendation about buying 
PPI, or not. The requirements were stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it, so to be fair 
to Mr Js estate  Ive assumed it did. That means Lloyds had to check  that the policy was 
right for Mr J  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI, and 
he didnt have any other protection if he was off sick or lost his job, aside from the very 
limited statutory provisions. Mrs J said they had some savings, though understandably  
she couldnt remember how much. But its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr J fell on difficult  
times, theyd need those savings for all their living  costs  not just the credit card. So the 
savings wouldve only lasted so long. Whereas  the PPI covered Mr J for up to a year in 
any one claim, and it meant he could protect  the savings and use them for other things. 
Overall, it looks  like the PPI couldve been  useful for Mr J in case something went  wrong.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to 
have put him off PPI. Here, he chose  to take out the policy  - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. As I said above,  it doesnt look like Mr J was affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover, and it could have really been useful for him if something 
went wrong. And if Mr Js circumstances changed or he changed his mind, he could 
cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty.  So overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Js estate.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Js estate because: 
Ref: DRN70364292Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. Lloyds  should also pay back any extra interest Mr J paid because  of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  the difference between what 
Mr J owed and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt been 
over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay 8%* simple interest if Mr J paid off 
the credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. The estate of the late Mr J may be able to claim back the 
tax if tax isnt due.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to the estate of Mr J.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to the estate of Mr J any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J, on behalf 
of the estate, to accept  or reject  my decision before 16 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7036429