K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about a short term loan that he took out with Evergreen Finance London 
Limited, trading  as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which he said was unaffordable.
background
Mr P took out a loan with EFL for £300  on 16 October 2017.  The loan was repayable  by four 
monthly instalments  with a highest instalment of £105.34. The loan has been repaid.
EFL said that it had carried out a credit check before the loan and asked  Mr P for details of 
his income and expenditure. The credit check verified Mr Ps declared salary of £1,550.  EFL 
increased Mr Ps declared expenditure from £800  to £922 to reflect the additional credit Mr P 
had outstanding on its credit check.  EFL also said that Mr P had applied  to it for a loan of 
£500 but it had offered £300 as it believed the monthly instalments  for the lower  amount 
would be more affordable.  
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the loan should be upheld  as he didnt  think that EFL 
had acted unfairly. 
Mr P disagreed. In summary, he responded to say that he was unsure how accurate EFLs  
checks were as his verified  salary  was incorrect. He rarely earned more  than £1,250.  Mr P 
said that other lenders  checks  had resulted  in him being refused loans. His credit report  
showed he had multiple outstanding long and short term loans when he applied  for EFLs 
loans. He also had an outstanding default  and missed payments on his loans and credit 
cards and that it was impossible for EFL to have undertaken even soft credit  checks  without 
these appearing.  Mr P also referred to EFL taking into account the additional credit it had 
seen on its credit check. So he said that EFL must  have also seen his multiple loans, 
defaulted account and missed payments. It would  also have seen that he was experiencing 
significant financial difficulties with other  lenders.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to EFL on 12 December 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I noted that when  EFL lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that EFL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN73728322But certain factors might  point to the fact that EFL should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that EFL was required to establish  whether Mr P could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ps complaint.
I noted that EFL had made a number  of checks before it lent to Mr P. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. Mr P had declared his monthly income as £1,550 and 
his expenditure  as £800. His declared expenditure included  £250 credit commitments.  But 
EFL had increased Mr Ps expenditure to £922 to reflect the additional  outstanding credit  it 
had seen on its credit check.  So it had calculated  Mr Ps disposable income as £628.
I also noted that EFL had checked Mr Ps credit  file before agreeing  to the loans. EFL had 
provided this service with its credit  checks.  I could see that Mr P had eight active credit 
accounts and that ten accounts had been opened in the previous six months. Mr P had a 
total outstanding credit balance of £16,225 of which his outstanding loans balance  was 
£10,352. But although the check showed  no county court judgements,  independent 
voluntary arrangements  or bankruptcy, it did show a defaulted current account with a 
balance of £3,300 which had defaulted  only two months previously. It also showed a 
delinquent loan with a current  balance  of £9,846. No payments appeared to have  been  
made on that loan since February 2017  although monthly payments of £271  were required. 
The credit check also showed an outstanding  loan balance (described as an unsecured 
loan) for £300  and another loan balance of £300  taken out less than three weeks earlier. 
Moreover the credit checks  showed  that Mr P had taken out (and repaid) five payday loans 
in the previous three months  ranging from £150 to £403. The check  also showed  another  
Ref: DRN73728323loan (described as an unsecured loan) with a repayment amount of £432 taken out and 
repaid during that period.
It didnt appear that wed received a copy of Mr Ps own credit report, although hed told this 
service that he was suffering from financial difficulties which  hed believed  EFLs credit  check  
would have shown.  
I explained that when a lender carried out a credit search, the information  it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search would and it wasnt  
necessarily up to date. So, this might have  explained  any differences between  the 
information provided by EFLs credit check and Mr Ps actual situation. I was also aware that 
not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, 
Mr P might have taken other payday or short term loans shortly  before EFLs loan, which 
might not have been identified by EFLs credit  checks.
I could see that the loan was repayable by four monthly repayments  with a highest  
repayment of £105.34.  I could also see that EFL had calculated  Mr Ps disposable  income as 
£628. Id noted that EFL had added an additional  amount of £122 to Mr Ps declared  
expenses to reflect the additional outstanding credit it had seen on its credit checks. So it 
was aware that Mr P wasnt declaring  all his credit  commitments. And I could see EFL 
should have been aware from its credit check that Mr P had a very recent defaulted  account,  
significant arrears on another credit account, an apparent reliance on other  short term 
lending and a current outstanding total short term loan balance of £300  to £600 as well as 
mail order and credit card balances. 
I thought EFLs credit check had built a picture  of a customer  with a recent history of 
delinquency and short  term lending who was repeatedly asking for loans. So, I thought  that 
EFL should have been concerned about  whether it knew enough about Mr Ps financial 
situation before lending  to him, especially as Mr P was committing to making the loan 
repayments over four months. So I thought it would have been proportionate for EFL to have 
asked some questions  about what the credit checks showed. I couldnt see that it did this.
Although I didnt think that the checks EFL had made were sufficient, that in itself didnt  mean 
that Mr Ps complaint  should succeed. I also needed  to see whether what  I considered to be 
proportionate checks would have shown EFL that Mr P couldnt  sustainably afford the loan.
As Id said above,  I thought EFL needed to ask Mr P some questions about  what the credit 
checks showed. So Id tried to find out more about  this by looking at Mr Ps bank statements 
for the month prior to the loan,  to see what better  checks would have suggested to EFL.  
I could see that Mr Ps monthly  income  was £1,420.64, a little less than hed declared. But, I 
also noted that Mr P received around  four payday  loans from other lenders totalling around  
£873 which would have required repayment around the same time as EFLs loan. So I could  
see that Mr P would have  had no income to repay the loan after payment of his other payday 
loans. I thought it was clear that Mr P had serious  difficulties managing his money.
So, if EFL had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks  before the loan,  I 
thought it was likely that these would  have suggested that the loan wasnt  sustainable. So I 
thought EFL was wrong to give Mr P this loan.
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or EFL my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order EFL to put things right as follows. 
Ref: DRN73728324putting things right  what EFL needs  to do
1.Refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on his loan;
2.Pay 8% simple  interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement.  
3.Remove all adverse  entries about  the loan from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
Mr P responded to my provisional decision to say that he agreed with it and had nothing 
further to add.
EFL disagreed with my provisional decision.  It considered that the checks undertaken were
proportionate especially  given the infancy  of the lending relationship. It said that it would be 
unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review every line of a credit file prior to lending, 
especially at the early stages of the relationship. It said that this was supported by numerous 
previous assessments  and decisions received from this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that EFL said that it was unrealistic for its underwriter to review every  line of a credit 
file prior to lending. But I think  that simply performing checks isnt enough. A lender must 
also react  appropriately to the information that any checks show.  The credit check that EFL 
did showed recent indicators of financial distress so I think  it should have carried  out further  
checks. And if it had done more EFL would  have seen the extent of Mr Ps other,  recent, 
short term borrowing.
I also note that EFL refers  to previous  assessments received  from this service. But we assess  
each case on its own merits. And it isnt always appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints without a detailed  understanding of the specific facts of each  complaint.
Im satisfied that the proposed resolution in my provisional decision is fair in all the 
circumstances, and I find no basis to depart from my earlier  conclusions. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require EFL to pay Mr P some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, 
I order Evergreen Finance  London  Limited,  trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, to:
1.  Refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on his loan;
Ref: DRN737283252.Pay 8% simple  interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement; and  
3.Remove all adverse  entries about  the loan from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7372832