K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs T say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium.  It covered their mortgage 
payments in case Mr T was off work  sick or lost his job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I dont think  this PPI policy  was mis-sold, for 
the following  reasons:
Mr and Mrs T submitted an application  form specifically for PPI, separately to applying  for 
the mortgage itself.  They asked for it to cover  Mr T only, and he signed that form. The PPI 
form also set out its cost separately to that of the mortgage,  rather than as something  that 
was included. Overall  after seeing this, I think that Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs T had 
a choice about buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr T, so it had to check  that the policy was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. Mr T 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mr T also didnt 
have sick pay or savings so the benefit offered by the policy would  have provided  some 
reassurance to Mr and Mrs T. If they fell behind  on their mortgage payments they risked 
losing their home. So I think the PPI couldve really been useful for them.
The PPIs cost and benefit was set out clearly  in the application, so I think  Mr and Mrs T 
wouldve understood what it would cost and what it could pay out in a claim. It doesnt  
look like the policy was overly expensive or bad value, and it looks like it wouldve been 
affordable for them.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main  things the PPI didnt cover.  
But as I said above, Mr T wasnt affected by any of those things.
All of this means  Halifax  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN74675622my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467562