K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited dealt with her 
pet insurance policy claim and sale. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Mrs W took out pet insurance  with Red Sands for her dog starting on 1 December 2012. 
She chose  the Superior policy which gave lifetime  cover with an annual condition  limit of 
£2,000. In 2015 Mrs W phoned  Red Sands to upgrade the policy  at renewal to the Superior  
Plus policy which gave  lifetime cover with an annual  condition  limit of £4,000.
Mrs W sent Red Sands a pre-authorisation invoice for £3,657.76, dated  2 November 2015, 
as her dog needed surgery for a cruciate ligament problem in her right hind leg.
Red Sands  said it would pay £1,901 for the pre-authorisation claim. It said the claim had to 
be assessed against the Superior policy as the problem was a pre-existing condition  before 
the start of the Superior Plus policy. Red Sands said it had told Mrs W in the 2015 policy 
upgrade call that any pre-existing condition would be covered under the terms of the 
previous policy.
Mrs W complained  to us saying her policy wasnt paying out as it should.
Our first investigator thought Red Sands acted fairly in considering  the pre-authorisation 
claim under the Superior policy.
Mrs W disagreed  and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She said when her dog first had 
her cruciate surgery four years ago Red Sands didn't cover all the claim so she took out a 
policy which  Red Sands  said gave her higher cover. When  her dogs other  leg went lame  
recently Red Sands wouldnt  cover  the problem on the upgraded policy  saying it was a 
bilateral condition. Mrs W says if Red Sands had told her about the bilateral condition policy 
term four years  ago she would never  have taken  out the upgraded policy.
Ive made  two provisional decisions  in this matter.
my first provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  as from what Mrs W told us in response to our first 
investigators opinion  I thought she may be complaining about two issues  and wed only 
looked at one issue. I did a provisional decision so the issues  could be clarified. I said:
2015 pre-authorisation claim
This is the issue our investigator understood Mrs W complained to us about and Red Sands 
sent evidence  for to us to consider.
Red Sands  no longer  has the call recording for the November 2015  policy  upgrade call. But 
its call notes say it told Mrs W that any pre-existing condition would be covered under the 
terms of her previous policy.
Ref: DRN78600902I think its more likely than not Red Sands did give Mrs W the information  as it ties in with 
information in the Key Facts document for the 2012  policy which clearly says:
Upgrade for Lifetime  and Non-Lifetime policies - Any upgrade in cover  or benefit 
levels endorsed  on the policy during the policy  term or at renewal of the policy  
shall not apply  to any Condition for which a claim has been notified  or to a 
Condition showing Clinical Signs prior to such  upgrade  becoming  effective.
The pre-authorisation claim  was dated  2 November 2015 and it's clear from the 2015 vet 
notes that Mrs Ws dog's was lame  on her right hind leg from at least October 2015.
So Red Sands could fairly say the pre-authorisation  claim  was for a condition  showing 
clinical signs  before  the upgraded policy came  into effect on 1 December 2015.
Red Sands  fairly assessed the pre-authorisation claim on the Superior policy terms. That 
means the £2,000 annual limit for each condition applied. It deducted the £99 excess  from 
that limit and the policy documents are clear the excess will be deducted from the policy  limit.
bilateral condition
Mrs Ws response to our investigators view suggests she has another  concern  her dog 
has recently been lame  and Red Sands  wont cover  the cost of that claim because  of the 
policy term on bilateral conditions. The policy term says:
Bilateral condition means any condition affecting body parts of which your pet 
has two, one each  side of the body  (e.g. ears,  eyes, knees, cruciate ligaments).  
When applying a benefit limit or exclusion, bilateral  conditions are considered as 
one condition.
If Mrs Ws concern  is about a recent claim then she needs to make a separate complaint to 
Red Sands  about  that issue. There's nothing  from the evidence Red Sands sent us to show 
that its considered  any complaint about a recent  claim  Mrs W wished to make and it needs 
to have the opportunity to do so.
The policy documents say theres  a lifetime condition limit of £20,000 even on the Superior 
policy if thats the policy Red Sands thinks any 2018/19 cruciate ligament claim should be 
assessed under.
If Mrs W complains to Red Sands about  a recent  claim  and the parties cant  agree she can 
ultimately complain to us about the matter.  In her response to my provisional decision Id like 
Mrs W to clarify if there is an issue with a recent claim she wishes to complain about.
Ref: DRN78600903responses to my first provisional decision
Mrs W clarified that she was complaining about  Red Sands mis-selling  her the policy  
upgrade. She said when  her policy didnt cover all the vet costs for her dogs 2015 treatment 
she called  Red Sands and asked if there was a better policy  that would cover all the costs  if 
the problem happened again. It told her to upgrade the policy  which she did. But when her 
dogs left leg went lame  in 2018  and needed treatment Red Sands said she could only claim 
on the old policy, with the old policys limit, as the dog had a bilateral  condition.  That meant 
the cost of the 2018 treatment wasnt fully covered.  Mrs W said there was no problem with 
her dogs left leg in 2015.
Mrs W says if Red Sands  had told her the upgraded policy wouldnt cover  bilateral  conditions  
to that policys  higher  limit she wouldnt have paid the extra  to upgrade  the policy.  She said 
Red Sands  had conveniently  deleted  the phone calls after 18 months and she feels ripped 
off. She wants Red Sands to either pay the 2018  claim  in full or refund the additional 
premiums she paid for the upgraded policy.
We set out Mrs Ws clarified complaint to Red Sands. We asked if it had sent her a final 
response letter on that matter and if so for all the information we needed to consider  her 
complaint. Red Sands  sent us the final response  letter it had already sent us and a lot of 
new evidence.
Another of our investigators considered  Mrs Ws clarified complaint. He thought Red Sands 
hadnt mis-sold the upgraded policy in 2015  and had fairly applied  the bilateral condition  
policy exclusion to the 2018 claim so the Superior policy limit of £2,000  applied.
Mrs W disagreed  and wanted an ombudsmans decision
my second  provisional decision
I made  a second provisional decision explaining why I was intending to require Red Sands to 
refund to Mrs W the difference in premium for the Superior Plus and Superior policies from 
1 December 2015 to 28 September 2016. I said:
2018 claim 
Mrs Ws dog needed treatment for her left cruciate  ligament  in 2018. Thats a bilateral 
condition as defined  by the policy so Red Sands  said the condition was an pre-existing 
condition not covered  under the Superior Plus policy. It paid the claim under the Superior 
policy with the £2,000  limit. I understand the costs  of the 2018  claim exceeded £2,000.
Although the policy wording says Red Sands considers bilateral conditions as one condition  
there are some occasions  when we may say thats unfair if the cause of illness/injury is 
unrelated to the initial illness/injury.
From the vet notes  it looks  as if Mrs Ws dogs problems in 2015 and 2018  were  the same.  
Theres no vet evidence  that shows the causes  of the cruciate  ligament  injuries  were  unrelated.
Red Sands  could fairly apply the bilateral  condition policy term for the 2018 treatment. 
Red Sands  was fair to assess and pay the claim under the Superior policy with the £2,000  limit.
Ref: DRN78600904mis-sale of policy
Red Sands  told us the relevant call recordings arent available.  Although  Mrs W thinks thats 
convenient for Red Sands it doesnt have  to keep call recordings indefinitely.  It has sent the 
call notes it made at the time of the calls and Ive based my findings about the sale of the 
policy on those notes,  what  Mrs W has told us and the policy  wording.
Mrs W says she only upgraded  to the Superior  Plus policy because the cost of the cruciate 
ligament treatment in 2015 wasnt fully covered by her Superior policy and the notes  of the 
2015 calls between Mrs W and Red Sands support that was the reason  for the upgrade at 
that time.
The call notes show on 3 November 2015 Mrs W decided to upgrade to the Superior Plus 
policy. The new policy  started 1 December 2015.
The call note of 3 November 2015  says Red Sands told Mrs W about the 14 days and pre-
existing conditions and the new policy documents were emailed to her. The call note doesnt 
show that Red Sands told her cruciate  ligament would be classed as a bilateral  condition  
under the policy  which  meant that if her dog was treated for cruciate ligament on her other  
leg it would  be a pre-existing  condition not covered by the upgraded policy.
I accept the Superior Plus policy document sent to Mrs W following the upgrade included the 
bilateral condition term Ive detailed above.
But given the contents of the 2015 calls notes I think it should  have  been  clear to Red Sands 
that Mrs W was upgrading the policy because the Superior policy  limit didnt cover all the 
cruciate ligament  treatment costs her dog had that year.  Red Sands is the expert  here and 
I think it would have  been fair for Red Sands to have clearly told Mrs W the Superior Plus 
policy limit wouldnt apply  if her dog needed  cruciate treatment on the other leg.
There is evidence Red Sands told Mrs W about  the pre-existing condition  exclusion in the 
call. But Mrs Ws dogs left leg didnt have  a problem in 2015.  She reasonably didnt 
understand the pre-existing condition  exclusion meant cruciate ligament treatment for her 
dogs other  leg wouldnt  be covered  by the Superior Plus policy.
In the circumstances I think Red Sands did mis-sell  the policy at that point.
The calls notes show Mrs W called Red Sands on 28 September 2016  and told it she was 
considering cancelling her policy as she worried cruciate ligament treatment wasnt  covered 
at all. The call notes  show Red Sands told her that she had life time cover for the condition  
but as it was a bilateral  condition the Superior policy terms applied.
Im satisfied that its more  likely than not that in the 28 September 2016  call Red Sands told 
Mrs W about the effect of the bilateral condition term on her cover. Mrs W continued the 
policy and renewed  it at the next renewal date.
From the 28 September 2016 I think Mrs W should have reasonably  known she had policy  
cover to a £4,000  limit for her dogs new medical conditions  but not cruciate ligament 
problems on either  legs or pre-existing conditions.
Ref: DRN78600905Overall I think  the fair outcome is for Red Sands to refund to Mrs W the difference  in 
premium for the Superior  Plus and Superior policies from 1 December 2015 (the start of the 
upgraded policy)  to 28 September  2016 (the date I think Red Sands made the relevant 
policy cover  clear). Interest should  be added as Ive detailed below.
2015 pre-authorisation claim
In my first provisional I found that Red Sands  fairly assessed the 2015 pre-authorisation 
claim on the Superior  policy terms. The new evidence Ive seen doesnt change my mind 
about the 2015 claim.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Red Sands  didnt respond. Mrs W said she accepted my second provisional decision. She 
added that she thought  it would be fairer if she was refunded the difference  in the policies 
premiums from the date she upgraded to the date she cancelled the Superior Plus policy  as 
shed lost out on the amount she paid to Red Sands and had to pay a lot to the vets.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs W would  like the difference in the policies premiums  for all the time the 
Superior Plus policy was in place. But Ive explained  in my second  provisional decision why 
I think that from the 28 September 2016 Mrs W should have reasonably  known she had 
policy cover  to a £4,000  limit for her dogs new medical conditions but not cruciate  ligament 
problems on either  legs or pre-existing conditions. As she continued with the Superior Plus 
policy after that date,  with that knowledge,  I dont think it would fair for me to say Red Sands 
should refund all the premiums she seeks.
Mrs W does accept my second provisional  decision and Red Sands hasnt responded. Ive 
no reason to change  my mind. For the reasons  Ive given  in my two provisional findings  and 
these findings  I partly uphold the complaint. 
Red Sands  must refund to Mrs W the difference in premium for the Superior Plus and 
Superior policies from 1 December  2015  (the start of the upgraded policy)  to 28 September  
2016 (the date I think Red Sands  made the relevant  policy cover clear),  plus interest as Ive 
detailed below. 
Red Sands  fairly assessed the 2015 pre-authorisation claim on the Superior policy terms. 
Red Sands  could fairly apply the bilateral  condition policy term for the 2018 treatment and it 
was fair to assess and pay the 2018 claim under the Superior policy  with the £2,000 limit
Ref: DRN78600906my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to refund to Mrs W the difference  
in premium for the Superior  Plus and Superior policies from 1 December 2015 to 
28 September 2016. Interest* must  be added  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment 
of each Superior  Plus policy  premium during those dates to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs W how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7860090