K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the price he paid TTR PT Limited (TTR) for a training course  and the 
career support he received after completion.
 
background
In November 2017, Mr K took a Fixed Sum Loan  Agreement of £2,895 with TTR to buy a 
level 3 training course from them. Hes completed  the course and qualified in his chosen 
career. But hes since found  that a fellow student paid significantly less than he did and was 
also entitled to a level 4 course at no extra cost. Mr Ks agreement entitled him to career 
support to help him into a job, but although  he tried to use the service, hes dissatisfied with 
it as he didnt gain employment. 
He complained to TTR and asked for a refund of part of the fees he paid for his course. TTR 
explained they use a dynamic pricing structure  which means that courses  at particular 
academies or dates  are priced  differently according  to several factors, including  the level of 
demand. They also provided details of the contact Mr K had had with the Career  Support 
team and felt hed been offered a placement  and his CV had been circulated as theyd 
expect. TTR said this aspect of their service would  remain  available  to him until November 
2020 (three years after hed started the course) and they were happy  to continue to provide 
further support.  They didnt  uphold his complaint.   
As Mr K remained unhappy, he referred his complaint  to us and one of our investigators 
looked into it. She said Mr K had to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation for his 
complaint about  pricing to succeed.  And she outlined the work TTRs Career  Support  Team 
(the Team) had done,  and felt theyd acted reasonably. She didnt feel there  were  grounds to 
say there  had been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.  She didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr K rejected our investigators view of the complaint. He said at the time he bought the 
course, hed found  it around £700  cheaper  with another provider, but the salesman 
persuaded him that TTR were the best Level  3 provider and encouraged  him to accept 
TTRs offer quickly  or he may lose it. He was also disappointed with the work of the Team 
and feels let down  by TTR. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  her view of Mr Ks complaint, so it has been  
referred to me as a final decision.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were able to consider Mr Ks complaint about  this course because he took finance  to fund it. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA),  TTR has a duty to carry out the service  they 
offer in a defined  way. If they fail to do so, the CRA  sets out remedies that may be available. 
When thinking about what I think is reasonable in the circumstances, Ive considered the 
provisions of the CRA. 
The main  point of Mr Ks complaint is that its unreasonable that the course  was provided to 
a fellow  student  more cheaply than it was to him. Mr K also said hed found  the course 
Ref: DRN71877532cheaper elsewhere, but TTR persuaded him to take their offer instead. I cant  say for sure 
what was said at the point of sale, but its clear that Mr K had time to think  about the course 
and the price of it, because hed shopped  around  and found a cheaper offer. In the end, he 
elected to go with TTR knowing the cost of the course. 
It is a matter for TTR to decide on their pricing  structure  including  discounts and 
promotions offered   and that is not something  I can interfere with.  Ive seen nothing  to 
suggest Mr K was misled  about the cost of it.
CRA, says a service  offered should  be performed with reasonable care and skill and it 
should be performed within a reasonable time. Theres no dispute that Mr K has qualified  as 
he wished and within a few months,  so I think the training part of the course  met these 
provisions. But Mr K is unhappy with the service  hes received from TTRs Career  Support  
Team (the Team). 
Part of TTRs  terms are that students  have access to the Team  which  aims to help their 
students to find work in their chosen  field. The Team  is available  for students  to use for three  
years after their course begins. TTR say that Mr K was offered a placement  which  he turned 
down because he was relocating. Once Mr K had relocated,  they assisted him by circulating 
his CV to various  employers in his new area, but unfortunately those mailings appear to 
have been unsuccessful.  In their final response to his complaint, TTR said the Team was still 
available to him until November 2020  if he wished to get further support. 
Mr K was offered a placement which he turned down, and the Team  have provided evidence 
that they circulated his CV to several employers in his new area until he told them  he no 
longer needed their support. Ive seen nothing to suggest the Teams  actions were not 
performed with reasonable care and skill. Further, I think theyve performed their service 
within a reasonable time  and that service remains available to him for another  few months. 
While the Teams help hasnt been  successful  in finding Mr K employment following his 
relocation, I think they have tried to assist. Ive seen  no evidence  of any guarantees of 
employment and I dont think it would be reasonable to expect any. I dont think TTR have 
breached the contract they have  with Mr K. 
In summary,  Mr K received the course hes applied for and has received the qualifications he 
studied for and expected. Having carefully  reviewed everything both Mr K and TTR have 
said and the evidence theyve provided,  I havent seen anything which leads me to think  that 
TTR hasnt carried out the service it agreed with Mr K in the way it should. I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to tell TTR to refund him part of what  hes agreed to pay them  
for their service.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7187753