K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) didnt treat her fairly  
when she was in financial difficulties with her mortgage. She also was unhappy  about  its 
handling of her complaint. She wants compensation and a solution to her arrears problem.
background
Mrs J had a mortgage  with Halifax and got into arrears.  She said that it didnt treat her fairly 
as it didnt make her aware  of the options available when she told it about  her unemployment 
and she said Halifax breached the mortgage rules (MCOB  mortgage conduct  of business 
rules set out by the Financial Conduct  Authority).  Mrs J also said that several  different  
complaints handlers  dealt  with her complaint and Halifax  didnt freeze her account  while  it 
investigated. Mrs J said that she had been  told Halifax would freeze her account  and she 
wasnt happy that letters sent to her werent specifically tailored to answer  her questions.  
She also said that Halifax refused her offer to pay the arrears in full in July 2018.
Mrs J complained to Halifax. It said that it had complied with MCOB. Halifax  said when Mrs J 
first contacted it, she wasnt in arrears  but was in financial difficulties. This meant  that all it 
could offer was a nil payment arrangement, which would mean arrears would then arise  and 
might affect Mrs Js credit records. As Mrs J didnt  have any income,  other options such  as a 
term extension werent  appropriate. Halifax pointed out that its staff made  suggestions to 
Mrs J about applying for benefits  and getting advice before Mrs J got into arrears.
Halifax then said after the original nil payment  arrangement ended, it agreed a reduced 
monthly payment  with Mrs J, despite her telling it that she hadnt  explored the possibility of 
receiving benefits. It said it then extended  the arrangement for longer than the usual three 
month arrangement  to allow  Mrs J to apply for benefits, and that its staff explained to her 
that it couldnt allow her to pay less long-term as the arrears were  increasing and there  was 
a risk that legal action  would be taken. Halifax also noted that it considered Mrs Js income 
and spending  and it was clear that she couldnt afford  the contractual monthly  payment and 
consolidation of the arrears wasnt an option.  It explained that it couldnt offer her an interest 
only mortgage as there  was no repayment plan, but it hadnt charged any arrears fees. 
Halifax said it did charge  interest and set out how payments received were applied  to her 
account. It warned  Mrs J that legal action was possible in the circumstances, but explained  
that placing an account on hold  just meant that it would stop chasing Mrs J for payment, 
not that interest wouldnt be charged. Halifax paid £100 compensation for the delay in 
responding to Mrs J. 
Mrs J complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Halifax  wasnt at fault. He noted that 
there was a history  of arrears for the mortgage.  The adjudicator reviewed what had 
happened and said that Halifax had considered the options available for Mrs J, but due to 
her lack of income  most werent  possible. He thought it had complied with MCOB by giving 
Mrs J a reasonable opportunity to repay the arrears  (through agreeing nil payments and 
reduced payments), by accepting payments made by Mrs J towards  the arrears, by telling 
her about  benefits  which  may be available to her, and by not charging  arrears fees. The 
adjudicator said this service couldnt deal with complaints  about  complaints handling. Mrs J 
disagreed.
Ref: DRN77420592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints handling  isnt an activity  
regulated by this service,  so I cant deal with this part of Mrs Js complaint. But I can, and 
will, consider if Halifax  has treated her fairly generally, which  would include the issue as to 
whether her account  shouldve been  frozen while the complaint was investigated. I will focus 
on the core of this complaint, which is about whether  Mrs J has been  treated fairly by Halifax  
while in financial difficulties.
Lenders must treat consumers in financial  difficulties  fairly; mortgage  arrears are usually a 
sign of financial difficulty. But this doesnt mean that lenders  have to do what  the consumer 
wants or that they cant insist on repayment. MCOB sets out what  is expected of lenders. In 
Mrs Js case,  I think that Halifax did treat her fairly. It worked  with her when she first 
explained that she had lost her job to explore what options may be available  it gave her 
information about possible benefits, it agreed to accept no payment for a period, and 
explained why other options werent appropriate  due to the lack of income. When the 
position didnt  improve, Halifax reviewed Mrs Js financial position and agreed to accept 
reduced payments  for a period. This is fair.
But Halifax  is also correct to point  out that accepting reduced payments long-term isnt 
necessarily in a consumers best interests. Arrears and unpaid  interest  grow.  The situation 
can become worse; any equity in the property is reduced. I dont think that it was unfair for 
Halifax to say that it couldnt  simply extend  the period of reduced payments, and I note that it 
agreed to give Mrs J a little more time in any event. The reason why Mrs J has been able to 
continue not to pay in full was because Halifax agreed to place the account  on hold while  
her complaints were  investigated. This is fair, but doesnt mean Halifax cant  charge interest  
(otherwise, it would  be giving Mrs J an interest-free loan). Mrs J didnt offer to pay the 
arrears in full in July 2018; she simply wanted to continue  to pay less than she had 
contractually agreed to pay each  month. And I note Halifax hasnt charged arrears fees.
The options  available  to Mrs J are limited by the fact she doesnt have an income.  That isnt 
the fault of Halifax  and doesnt mean that its acted unfairly. Equally, it isnt unfair to point out 
that if the arrears  remain unpaid and an affordable repayment plan isnt agreed,  possession 
proceedings are a possibility. Indeed, lenders  are required to give this warning. Having 
considered the evidence  available to me, Im satisfied that Halifax  has explained that interest  
will be charged and how payments received will be treated,  and it has treated Mrs J fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or reject  my decision before 
6 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7742059