K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) failed to provide her with £3,006.12 
which she says was in her savings account  in 2004.
background
Miss S says in late 2018 she found  a bank statement dated April 2004 showing a balance of 
£3,006.12 in a Bradford and Bingley account. Miss S says she didnt know what  happened to 
the account and never  received the money. She complained  to Santander who had taken 
over these Bradford  and Bingley accounts.
Santander says Miss S had a Bradford and Bingley savings account  which  was converted to 
another account and closed on 15 April 2004. It says information  on how the account  was 
settled is no longer available due to the time that had passed. Santander says its not 
required to retain records  indefinitely and has a duty under data protection  legislation  to not 
hold information  longer  than necessary. 
One of our investigators  looked into this and thought  Santander hadnt done  anything wrong. 
He says there were  no longer any records of the account other  than to show when it was 
closed and it was reasonable Santander didnt keep  records for longer than necessary. So 
he thought it was more likely Miss S had received the money  in the account.
Miss S was unhappy  with this response as she says the money was never paid out. So it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are not in dispute the account existed. Santander has checked  its records  in 
relation to the account. With exception to the account number and the opening and closure 
date, it no longer holds  any information relating to the account.  The records  show the 
account was closed in 2004. Miss S hasnt provided  anything to demonstrate the account  
was still open  after this date. So I think its more likely than not it was closed in 2004.
Data protection legislation says that information shouldnt be held for longer than necessary. 
Miss S approached Santander about the savings account in 2018,  so 14 years had passed 
since the account was closed. It wouldnt be reasonable,  taking into account what the 
relevant law says, for Santander to retain records for a closed account for this length  of time.
I also find it more likely  than not the funds were  removed from the account prior to its 
closure. It is unlikely that Santander would close an account with funds remaining in it. 
Therefore as it was closed, I think it is more likely these  funds  were  paid to Miss S at the 
time.
Ive not seen anything to make me think Miss S hasnt had the money. So I think  its unfair to 
direct Santander to pay her the balance showing on her 2004  statement. 
Ref: DRN72025082my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7202508