K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined  a claim for 
the theft of her mobile  phone  under her Tech Pack cover.
background
Miss P contacted Assurant to make  a claim for the theft her mobile phone  which  she says 
took place in a caf.  
Assurant considered Miss Ps claim in line with the terms  and conditions  of her policy and 
said that as the information provided by Miss P wasnt accurate it had declined the claim.
Our investigator considered Miss Ps complaint and thought Assurant  had acted reasonably. 
Miss P disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has told us it has relied  on the following  term from Miss Ps policy  to decline her claim:
It is important that when applying for insurance,  or submitting a claim you or anyone acting 
on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer  all questions honestly and to the best of 
your knowledge.  Failure  to do so may affect the validity of your policy  or the fulfilment of your 
claim. If false  or inaccurate information  is provided  and fraud is identified  then we may:
 Reject  the claim  and we may cancel your policy. If an excess  has been  paid this will be 
returned.
Assurant has said that when investigating  Miss Ps claim she told it that her phone  had been 
registered with the iCloud  and was showing as being offline. Assurant asked Miss P to 
change the status of the phone to lost which would then stop it being used, and for her 
provide a screen print to show  this had been done.
When Miss P provided a screen print of her iCloud  to Assurant it showed no devices 
connected. Assurant  has told us that only someone  with access  to Miss Ps iCloud account 
could have made this change, and that deleting the device is usually an action  taken by 
someone who no longer  owns the phone as it would allow someone else to use it.
Assurant has also received confirmation  that Miss Ps phone is now being used in another 
country and, as Miss P told Assurant the device was protected  by a passcode,  that its even 
more unlikely that her phone  was stolen in the way she has described.
Miss P did provide a police reference number to support  her claim, but unfortunately the 
information gained  from the police did not support her version of what happened.
We have also been provided with a supporting statement from Miss Ps friend who was in 
the caf at the time. While the statement supports  Miss P being in the caf it doesnt show  
that a theft took place.
Ref: DRN70824492Miss P has also provided links to websites  that show other ways devices can be removed 
from the iCloud.  When Assurant looked  into this it found that the methods were unlikely to be 
successful with Miss Ps phone and the software that it uses.  A further  conversation with 
Apple also confirmed that only someone with access to either the Apple ID and passcode,  or 
the username and password could make  the change to her account. 
Ive thought about everything Miss P and Assurant  have told us. Taking everything into 
account I think Assurant  have carried out a fair investigation that shows its unlikely the theft 
of Miss Ps phone occurred in the way she has described. So I dont think  it has asked 
unfairly in deciding to reject her claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7082449