K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc didnt contact him about  a debt for three years and 
then passed it to a third party to collect. Mr H says he thought the debt had been  written off 
by Santander.  
background
Mr H had a credit card with Santander  which fell into arrears. The last payment Mr H made 
was in May 2016  and he contacted Santander on 19 June 2016 to explain he wasnt  able to 
make payments because  hed lost his job. Santander agreed to put the account on hold for 
30 days and asked Mr H to get back in touch again.  Mr H provided an income and 
expenditure assessment a short time later that showed he wasnt able to maintain his 
payments. 
Santander continued to send Mr H statements and wrote to him on 
10 and 11 November 2016 to advise the credit card would  be defaulted if no payments  were  
received within  28 days.  Santander says it defaulted the account on 6 December 2016. 
On 27 November 2018 Santander wrote  to Mr H and said a third party was managing the 
debt on its behalf.  Mr H went on to raise a complaint.  Mr H said he hadnt heard from 
Santander about the debt for three years and wasnt  aware it remained outstanding. 
Santander responded on 27 February  2019 but didnt agree it had made an error. Santander 
confirmed there was an outstanding balance of £2,819.78 to pay. Mr H referred he complaint  
to our service and an investigator  looked at it. He said Santander was entitled  to pass  the 
debt to a third party to collect  and didnt  uphold the complaint.  Mr H didnt agree so his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that he thought  the debt had been  written off after he wasnt able to manage the 
payments in 2016 but I havent  seen anything to show Santander said that. Whilst I can see 
that the level of contact  between Mr H and Santander did reduce  after the account defaulted 
in December 2016, that doesnt mean the outstanding balance  had been  written off. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr H but Santander  can still ask him to make payments towards the 
outstanding balance. 
Mr H says he didnt receive important letters and statements Santander sent him. But Ive 
looked at the letters  and statements in question and they are all correctly addressed, in line 
with the information Mr H has given our service. Im satisfied that Santander did write to 
Mr H and send him the statements its provided.  
Mr H says he didnt hear from Santander for three  years. But the account defaulted in 
December 2016  and Santander contacted him to say it had passed  the debt to a third party 
to collect in November  2018, around  two years later. Santander has also sent Mr H a 
statement every  six months setting out the outstanding balance and, as Ive said above, they 
were all correctly  addressed. Im satisfied  from the evidence Ive seen that Santander has 
contacted Mr H about the debt since the default  was applied. 
Ref: DRN77792452I appreciate Santander  didnt  take direct action  to recover the outstanding balance for 
around two years. But theres nothing in the rules that says it cant attempt to recover the 
outstanding balance now. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied  Santander did send 
him important information about what was happening with his credit card in 2016, including 
its decision to default it. I can see that it continued to send  Mr H statements every six months 
setting out what  he owed. Santander  is entitled  to refer the debt to a third party to collect  and 
I havent found any evidence of a mistake or that its treated Mr H unfairly. 
As I think  Santander dealt  with Mr Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further  
action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7779245