K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he received from Positive Solutions (now Quilter  Financial  
Planning Solutions  Limited)  in 2008 to transfer his HSBC Final Salary (Defined Benefit) 
occupational pension scheme  to a personal  pension.  He does not believe this was 
appropriate and may have  financially disadvantaged  him. 
background
Positive Solutions (PS) did not uphold the complaint. It said that Mr H had not complained 
within the relevant  time limits. But in any event  its adviser did not recommend that the 
transfer was in Mr Hs best interests  and set out the disadvantages of him doing so. Mr H 
had instructed the transfer having  been made aware  of this. 
The complaint was referred  to this service and considered by an adjudicator. He thought the 
complaint had been made in time and was one which we could  consider.  However,  he did 
not otherwise  uphold  Mr Hs complaint. He said that there was no prohibition on a business 
administering a transfer on an insistent client basis. And Mr H had clearly indicated his wish 
to proceed against  the PS advisers  advice having been informed of the disadvantages of 
transferring. 
Mr H did not agree and has made a number of further submissions since  the adjudicators  
assessment. Those submissions were significant I have read and considered  them all. In 
brief summary Mr H said:
He was not an insistent client.
If the adviser recommended that he should  not proceed then it cannot  be right that 
the adviser subsequently  undertook the transfer.  
He did not require better administration, online access or access to other investment 
funds. 
He gave up on access to his pension at 60 by transferring and this was not explained  
to him. That he has lost tax free cash was not explained to him.
The amount  transferred from HSBC was significantly less than that set out in the 
documentation. There was another pension transfer being arranged  at the same time 
by the same adviser and the values  may have  been amalgamated. If this is so then 
the paperwork is not a true reflection as to what  was taking place. Furthermore, why 
is there no assessment  or documentation relating to the second OPS  transfer?  
He does not believe the documentation clearly sets out what  he would be losing by 
transferring.
There have been a number of pension  transfers  advised by this adviser over the 
years and they should be viewed  together. The number  of pension transfers 
suggests they all cant have  been in his best interests. And it shows  a systemic 
desire to recommend transfers for the advisers  benefit. 
Ref: DRN72977142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr H has made a separate  complaint  about another pension transfer that was carried out at 
the same  time. I will consider that matter  separately  but, as the transfers were carried out the 
same time, I have taken  into account the background to that complaint when considering  this 
complaint.
Mr H has said that when  he met with the PS adviser he wished to discuss  consolidating his 
pensions as he thought it would be in his best interests to do so. But he says it was not 
explained to him that in doing  so he would lose certain guarantees and at no time was he 
discouraged from transferring. He says that the letter sent to him does not reflect the 
discussions that took place. Although the letter  states that the adviser does not recommend 
the transfer, he does  not recall this being  discussed.
In essence Mr H says that although he initially had the desire to consolidate his pensions, 
the adviser did not clearly or fully inform him of the ramifications of doing so. If he had then 
he would  not have transferred. 
PS has supplied its fact finding records recording Mr Hs financial circumstances in 2008.  
This sets out that he was employed and earned £54,000 a year. No other investments apart 
from his pensions are recorded.  There is a note dated 4 June 2008:
You have told me that you want to move your HSBC final Salary pension  scheme  into your 
existing SW pp. I have  explained that you will lose your guarantees that you hold within the 
HSBC scheme.
You have  said that it is more important to collect all of your pension monies into one plan to 
make the servicing  and monitoring  of them easier.  You want to retire at age 65 and have a 
medium atr.
I have only given you advice with regard to a new home for your
pension transfer  of £26214.50
There is also a note that records:
The HSBC scheme has a current CETV of £26214.50. (Mr H) has a Scottish Widows
personal pension  plan and is very keen to bring  all of his pension  funds into one plan to
make the administration of them easier.
He has been made  aware that transferring scheme benefits with guaranteed benefits results  
in benefits being linked  to fund performance  and not guaranteed which they are currently.
He understands  this.
The scheme is fully funded but currently benefits are not accessible until NRD of 60 (Mr H) 
has stated that he also wants  more flexibility around his retirement date, although he may 
well work until 65. He is now very uneasy about the future of this scheme and is adamant  
that he wants to take more control of it.
Ref: DRN72977143There is a letter of 21 May 2008 from the adviser to Mr H. This sets out the details of the 
HSBC scheme and then went  on to provide  a recommendation.  The adviser set out:
I have conducted market  research on your behalf to assess the viability of transferring
these arrangements, and my research has led me to recommend that you do not transfer
these arrangements. You indicated at our initial discussion that you wished  to proceed with
the transfer against my advice because you wish to accumulate all of your pension funds
into one place to make the servicing  and monitoring of them  easier
Furthermore:
Consequences and Disadvantages
I am recommending that you do not transfer because my research has concluded  that a
comparison of the current arrangement with your existing PP arrangement demonstrated
Assuming the deferred pensions were  revalued at 2.5% pa until scheme retirement
age, you can expect  an annual income  of £6833  at age 60..
The enclosed illustration from Scottish  Widows) shows that the fund could at
intermediate growth  rate of 7% pa be worth  £83000  at age 60. Using current
annuity rates, this could purchase  an annuity of £4890 pa.
Transfer analysis report prepared by Legal and General shows that, in order  to
replace the benefits provided  by your former scheme, the equivalent  transfer-in
payment would need to grow by 9 7% per annum by age 60.
Higher Ongoing  charges  of the alternative  arrangement, reflected m the Reduction
in Yield figure of 1.1%  per annum
You should note that benefits from a money purchase arrangement such as this are not
guaranteed and depend upon  investment returns and annuity rates, and that you are
giving up the guarantees of a final salary  arrangement.
My understanding is that you wish to proceed  with the transfer against my advice as you
are intent on merging  all of your pension funds together to make them  easier to monitor  and 
service.
In the event you would still like to proceed against  my advice please return  one copy  of
this letter  to me after signing and dating the declaration below  to confirm that you have
read and understood the contents of this letter and, in your own handwriting, provide
instruction for me to act on your behalf  to recommend a suitable receiving arrangement
for the transfer  value.
Mr H signed a declaration to indicate  that he, understood the disadvantages  and 
consequences detailed  in this letter and the recommendation that I do not transfer  my HSBC  
Bank Pension Scheme.  There is a handwritten section on the declaration which  records  
that:
I understand the reasons above but wish to consolidate pension for numerous  funds to 
Scottish Widows  Pension Fund.
Ref: DRN72977144I note that Mr H says that the adviser dictated what he needed to write in this respect.
There is also a letter of 4 June 2008 from the adviser to Mr H which encloses his 
recommendation in relation to the HSBC OPS. In this report  the adviser comments:
I have recommended that you do not transfer  based on the guarantees offered by
the HSBC (UK) pension  Scheme at age 60. These  cannot be replicated in another
scheme as by transferring your pension monies become invested and the resultant
income will be based on the total fund value and annuity rates applicable at that
time. You have stated  though that it is more important to you to merge  all of your
pension funds into one plan to make the administration of them  easier and to keep
track of your pension fund.
I have explained  that my advise (sic) is limited to finding a home for the funds rather than
stating that you should  transfer.
There is also a transfer analysis which shows that, on certain assumptions used at the time, 
a transfer to a personal pension was likely to provide  lower  benefits. 
As the adjudicator commented, a business  can arrange a pension transfer even if it 
recommends that that is not in a clients best interests. It can arrange  the transfer on an 
insistent client basis. In essence that means that the client notes the recommendation not 
to transfer but wishes to transfer anyway. But when acting on this basis the business should 
make clear  that the transfer is against its advice and also set out the material disadvantages 
so that the client  can make an informed decision. 
Whilst I have taken  into account everything that Mr H has said, I do believe the PS adviser  
set out clearly that he was advising against  the transfer and set out the material 
disadvantages - such  as the lack of guarantees provided under the new pension plan and 
the fact that significant rates of growth  would be required to match  the benefits given up. He 
did make  it clear that the benefits from the new pension  were unlikely to match those given 
up. Whilst some of the documents  are technical in nature, the documents I have highlighted 
are not thick and unreadable  in fact the letter of  21 May 2008 is only two pages long and 
does set out in plain English that the transfer  is not advised, and also the material  
disadvantages. 
Mr H has said that he wasnt fully aware  of these matters and what  is documented  does not 
represent what was discussed verbally. But I hope he will appreciate that the documents  that 
both he had PS have supplied do set out the disadvantages and that they clearly say he 
should not transfer. The advisers and Mr Hs version of what  was discussed  differ  
significantly but I cannot assume  that the documented advice is incorrect.  Whilst Mr H says 
that he was not dissuaded  from transferring, that is not supported  by the documentary  
evidence. 
I also appreciate Mr Hs comment  that, given the potential disadvantages in terms of income 
and value, if this had been  made clear to him there would have been  no possibility of him 
transferring. However  these potential disadvantages  were  set out and Mr H did sign to 
indicate to say that he was proceeding against advice, whether his handwritten comments  
were dictated him or not. Mr H is a project  manager  and he says he accustomed to 
comparisons and values.  I believe he is an intelligent individual  and, although  not an expert  
in pensions, could  appreciate the material advice and guidance he was being given. 
Ref: DRN72977145I have noted the other instances when  Mr H was given  advice by this adviser. I have not 
seen that any of the other transactions were  processed on an insistent client basis.  But that 
does not mean that this transfer on that basis is necessarily suspect. The adviser can give a 
positive recommendation that some action should be taken  based  on the circumstances at 
the time,  and advise  against others if he thinks thats  is not in the clients best interests.  That 
would be normally what would be expected. I note that in other circumstances the adviser 
did make  positive recommendations  to take an action. If the adviser recommends a course 
of action (rather than  recommended against  it) then Mr H naturally wouldnt be an insistent 
client because he did not need to proceed  against advice. 
I would also note that Mr H has not lost his ability to take pension benefits  at age 60 by 
transferring. I do not know why he believes  that but he can take benefits from a personal 
pension at 60 (or after)  if he wishes, or most likely earlier than 60. He has also not lost the 
ability to take tax free cash from his pension  although that may be more  or less than that 
which would have been supplied by his HSBC  OPS. Generally  speaking it is not unusual for 
personal pensions  to provide more flexibility with respect to taking benefits.  But he may wish 
to take advice on this. So, in summary, these are not examples of Mr H being misled  or not 
given accurate information. 
I note another  pension  transfer of an OPS  did take place at the same time and that this was 
not documented (there are no recommendations in relation to it for example). It should have 
been documented and I am considering the transfer  of that pension  in a separate complaint. 
I have taken that into account. But that does not change  my view of the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Mr H says that the two pensions may have been  taken into account (and values 
amalgamated) by the adviser via the same recommendation  but the second not 
documented. But the evidence does not support that. The reduction in the value of the 
HSBC pension was purely the result of HSBC  recalculating the value because the first value 
was only guaranteed for three months. HSBC  clearly  acknowledged when providing the 
second value  that it had reduced. Furthermore the transfer value of the second  OPS was 
about £14,000  and the reduction  was about half that. So the combination of the pension  
values does not support that the second  OPS  value was simply added to the first. 
In terms of the reduction in the transfer  value itself, this should have been  notified to Mr H. 
However, whilst  it is possible that this was not specifically highlighted, it is likely that Mr H 
agreed to proceed  on the basis of that lower figure because for the transfer to proceed Mr H 
had to sign the revised transfer authorisation. In any event, given the evidence  is that Mr H 
proceeded against the advice of the adviser  and on the basis  that the likely benefits would 
be lower, on balance I dont believe it is likely  that the lower  figure  would have made any 
difference to the decision that was taken.  
It is possible that Mr H did not fully appreciate what he was giving up in transferring or 
understand the implications of him being  documented  as an insistent client.  And I have taken 
into account that there are issues with the transfer of another  pension undertaken at the 
same time (which  is the subject of separate complaint). But the evidence  such as I have 
discussed in this complaint would not lead to a reasonable  finding  that this complaint should 
be upheld. This is not to say I disbelieve Mr H, only that the evidence does not support his 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN72977146Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing  for Mr H, the evidence  does  not support a 
finding that he was misled  about  the transfer or not given enough information to make  an 
informed decision.  I cannot uphold the complaint based on the evidence  before me.  
my decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 January 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7297714