K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc:
- wouldnt  agree to extend the term of his interest  only mortgage. Instead  Barclays  said Mr T 
would need to apply for a new mortgage; 
- wouldnt  agree to giving Mr T a new mortgage;
- charged an unfairly high rate of interest once  the interest only mortgage had expired; 
- passed  the handling of his expired interest only mortgage from person to person, and
- threatened repossession  action and incurred unnecessary solicitors costs which have 
been added  to the mortgage loan.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out an interest  only mortgage  for around £250,000 with Barclays.  In 2014 
the mortgage term expired. 
Mr T initially asked  for a two year extension to give him the chance  to sell another  property  
and repay  the loan.  Barclays  considered  Mr Ts proposal for around 12 months but 
eventually said in 2015 that it wouldnt agree to extend the term of the mortgage loan. Mr T 
complained and Barclays gave its final response  to that complaint on 4 July 2015. Barclays  
said it wouldnt agree  to extend  the term of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  as it had been told by 
Mr T that he and Mrs T had the assets  to repay  the mortgage in full.
Mr T took independent  financial advice in 2015.  Mr T later remortgaged one of his buy-to-let 
properties. He wanted to use the £75,000  hed raised from the remortgage to reduce the 
expired interest  only mortgage on their home, and to try and take out a new residential  
mortgage. But again Barclays wouldnt agree to a new mortgage. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs T eventually managed to remortgage with a third party lender through  
their broker,  and repaid  the Barclays mortgage  in full.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Barclays. They were very unhappy about  the way Barclays had 
handled their interest only mortgage  expiring, including its handling of their application  for a 
new mortgage, and the customer service theyd received throughout. They said theyd had to 
explain their situation  to many people at Barclays over the years and that everything felt 
unnecessarily difficult. They also felt theyd  paid too much interest  and unnecessary legal 
fees.
On 20 January 2018 Barclays  issued a final response to Mr and Mrs Ts further complaint 
issues. It didnt uphold  the complaint so Mr and Mrs T brought the matter to us. While weve 
been looking  into this complaint Mrs T has sadly passed away. In my decision I have 
referred to this as being Mr Ts complaint but Im sensitive to the fact this matter was first 
raised with us as a joint complaint. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ts complaint, and thought it should be upheld. However, 
following their view,  Barclays  said it was unhappy that wed looked at events where  it had 
already issued a final response.  It said part of the complaint had been  brought to us out of 
time. 
Another investigator reviewed the complaint again.  He thought  Mr Ts complaint about his 
request for a term extension had been brought to us out of time.  Both parties asked that an 
Ref: DRN73331562ombudsman look at everything again and reach  a decision on which parts  of the complaint  
we could consider  and the merits of the complaint.
An ombudsman looked at this complaint and issued a decision setting out which  parts of this 
complaint we could  consider and why. She also issued a provisional decision on the merits 
of the issues that we could look into. Unfortunately that ombudsman  isnt now available  to 
reach a final decision  on this complaint so this case has been  passed to me to review again.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2019. I didnt think Mr Ts complaint should 
be upheld. In my provisional  decision I said:
Barclays handling  of new mortgage  lending  requests
Barclays wouldnt agree  to extend  the term of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  when  it expired.  Ive 
explained that I cant look at this part of Mr Ts complaint.
When it didnt agree to extend the term, Barclays told Mr T that he could  apply for a new 
mortgage with it instead. We asked Barclays if we could  see the applications made  and the 
reasons why the new borrowing was declined. Barclays has said it doesnt have copies of 
applications made by Mr and Mrs T. Instead, Ive looked carefully  at all the customer notes 
made by Barclays from 2014 to 2017  to build  up a picture from records made at the time to 
see what was explored and why this wasnt agreeable to Barclays. 
Its clear from the evidence presented from both parties that there have been many  
discussions between Mr and Mrs T and Barclays since  this mortgage expired. Mr T 
complains that hes had to speak to lots of different people at Barclays  over the years.  I can 
see why this whole situation would have  been  a source of considerable stress for 
Mr and Mrs T. Im also mindful that its taken a lot of time and effort  for them to remortgage  
elsewhere and repay  the Barclays mortgage.  
Many of the discussions between Mr T and Barclays have been with its end of term team. I 
think Barclays could have  made it easier for Mr T to communicate with it. There were  times 
when there  was confusion about  who was dealing with Mr Ts mortgage and what might  be 
possible to help him and Mrs T, at different points in time. Ive also thought  about how long 
its took for the loan to be repaid, and the evolving plans of Mr and Mrs T over the years. 
While I accept and understand that it was frustrating for Mr T to need to repeat  his situation a 
number of times, I think its reasonable that Barclays has wanted regular updates  about  
events as they develop. This has meant  a lot of separate phone  calls over the years and a 
number of different  people at Barclays looking into this matter over time.  
Ive looked at Barclays log of all the calls held with Mr and Mrs T from 2014 to 2017.  Theres  
a record of different  proposals that were  made  to Barclays by Mr T, and some reasons have 
been recorded as to why these proposals werent  acceptable to Barclays underwriters. Ive 
used this evidence,  alongside Barclays lending policy at the time, to try to determine 
whether I think Mr Ts requests were given fair and reasonable  assessment.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  did give reasonable  consideration to Mr Ts requests for 
new mortgage borrowing. Barclays  has explained  that there were a number of risk factors 
that prevented  it agreeing to a remortgage for Mr and Mrs T including  affordability  and 
concerns about  levels of unsecured debt.  
Ref: DRN73331563Barclays had mentioned to Mr T at one point that it might have been able to look at an 
application under  its extended lending policy, and consider borrowing up to 85 years. But 
once it realised Mr and Mrs T owned a number  of buy-to-let properties,  and had other  high 
value assets which could be used to repay the mortgage in full it no longer offered this 
extended policy. It then explained the mortgage application by Mr and Mrs T would be 
viewed under its standard lending policy which had a lower  maximum  age. Mr T and his 
broker have said that this could constitute age discrimination. 
Im not persuaded that age was a primary factor in not agreeing  a new mortgage for 
Mr and Mrs T in this case. Im satisfied that Barclays looked  at the wider circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ts financial position  including  their ability to afford a capital repayment 
mortgage, and recent  pressures on their income,  as well as the fact that they had the assets 
to repay  the mortgage in full if they chose to do so. I consider that it was these other  factors  
which influenced Barclays lending decision rather than Mr and Mrs Ts respective ages.
Im mindful that there have been a number of issues that complicated Mr and Mrs Ts ability 
to remortgage with another lender and this slowed  down  the remortgaging process. And I 
think its fair to say that it was the same  risk factors that Barclays  struggled to get 
comfortable with when Mr and Mrs T applied for a new mortgage in 2015. Mr T had recently 
become self-employed. The contact history also records  the mortgage had fallen into arrears 
before it expired. The notes from the time record Barclays had been  told that some of 
Mr and Mrs Ts rental properties had been empty, and had needed refurbishment. As a 
result of this reduced rental income  in early 2014  Mr and Mrs T hadnt been able to make  
their mortgage payments  to Barclays. 
Barclays case notes record that Mr T got independent advice about his mortgage options in 
2015 as he was exploring remortgaging  elsewhere.  From 2015  to 2017 various changes 
happened to Mr Ts situation  before he successfully remortgaged  with another lender in 
2017. He sold assets to reduce his unsecured  borrowing,  he remortgaged  one of his buy-to-
let properties to release equity, and he also explored selling other properties he owned.
Ive seen the mortgage offer from Mr Ts new mortgage lender. I note the remortgage he got 
elsewhere is for a significantly lower  amount  than his Barclays mortgage had been, albeit 
still on an interest only basis. It appears Mr T used equity released from remortgaging a 
rental property to reduce his residential  mortgage. Overall, I think  Mr Ts changes  to his 
wider financial position led to him eventually being  able to remortgage elsewhere. I dont 
think this shows that Barclays  hadnt given fair consideration to his initial  request years  
before.  
Did Barclays charge  Mr T an unfairly  high rate of interest on his expired mortgage?
Mr Ts said he suspects  Barclays deliberately strung him along between  2014 and 2017. He 
thinks this worked in Barclays favour as it meant  it could charge him a high rate of interest  
on his mortgage  over this period of time. Mr T says Barclays could have provided him with a 
tracker rate in 2014 and if it had this would have saved him thousands  of pounds of interest 
payments before he remortgaged elsewhere.
I can see why Mr T questions Barclays  motivations  for not agreeing  to offer him another  
mortgage and whether  Barclays has then benefited from delays in him managing to 
remortgage with another lender. Im aware  that being on Barclays standard reversionary 
Ref: DRN73331564rate will have cost Mr T a lot more  money each  month than if hed been on a more  
competitive interest  rate product.
Barclays has said that it doesnt offer new interest  rate products on interest only mortgages 
that are out of an agreed term. From  my experience of the mortgage market  and looking at 
similar complaints, that isnt unusual. If Barclays had agreed to formally  extend the mortgage  
for a few years then Id have expected it to make  a further interest  rate product available to 
Mr T. But, Barclays didnt agree to extend this loan. I think it made it clear that it wanted the 
borrowing to be repaid.
I think its reasonable that Barclays  wouldnt  offer more competitive interest  rates than its 
SVR while  Mr T arranged  a mortgage  elsewhere.  Barclays applied  its SVR, which  is the 
reversionary rate that would apply to all mortgage  customers that dont have another interest 
rate product  in place. And, as far as Barclays was concerned, Mr T was planning to repay 
the borrowing  as quickly as he could. I dont think Barclays could reasonably have foreseen 
that it would  take three years for the mortgage  to be repaid.
Is it unfair that Barclays started  to take legal action and then applied  the cost of this to Mr Ts 
mortgage?
Barclays agreed to place a hold on legal  action several times to give Mr T the chance to get 
advice and remortgage elsewhere. Overall I think Barclays showed a reasonable degree of 
forbearance to Mr T with this mortgage  out of an agreed term. Barclays has said it only 
decided to instruct a solicitor in May 2017 when it had been told that there was another  offer 
of mortgage finance but no evidence of this had been shared  with it. 
Barclays has said it only applied £63 of legal charges to the mortgage. Mr T has said he was 
charged around £1,000 of legal fees.
Id be grateful if Mr T could  share with us why he thinks his legal fees were so much higher 
than the figure Barclays has quoted. Im happy to review this part of the complaint subject to 
further evidence  shared  with us on this point.  
My provisional decision, subject to further  information I receive  from either party, is that 
Barclays didnt act unfairly in instructing a solicitor  when  it did. By May 2017  it had shown  
forbearance for over two years.  Previous offers of finance from other lenders had expired 
and I can understand  why Barclays  were becoming impatient. From the evidence  presented  
to me, I think its reasonable that Barclays  applied  the legal fee of £63 to Mr Ts mortgage 
account.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr T and Barclays replied to my provisional decision. Barclays accepted  my provisional 
findings. Mr T was disappointed with my provisional findings and still believes he could  have 
repaid Barclays its mortgage if it had agreed to a further two years term extension. He also 
said he is fairly certain that he recalls paying Barclays solicitors  around £800 to £1,000  of 
legal fees over the phone  by credit card around  July 2017.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and further arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about all the further  
Ref: DRN73331565arguments made by Mr T and Ive reconsidered the part of his complaint about the legal fees 
he had to pay to Barclays (or its solicitor).
I know it will be a disappointment to Mr T but I havent changed my mind. I still consider this 
complaint shouldnt succeed. I remain  of the view that Barclays had shown a reasonable 
degree of forbearance for over two years after the loan expired before it decided to engage  
solicitors. 
Weve asked all parties,  including Barclays solicitors, for more information about the legal 
fees that Mr T had to pay when the repaid the Barclays mortgage. The only legal fee I can 
find paid around  redemption of the mortgage  was the £63 fee, previously mentioned in my 
provisional decision. Mr T says he clearly  recalls paying Barclays solicitors  around £800 in 
July 2017. Mr T was unable to find a record from his credit card statements at the time. And 
Barclays and its solicitors  dont have a record of any other payment for solicitors  fees being  
requested or paid.  I havent been able to confirm that additional  legal fees were paid by Mr T 
in respect to legal work completed by Barclays or its agents in relation  to this mortgage.  
Barclays has suggested that it is possible that Mr T is recalling legal fees that were involved 
in his remortgage with his new lender.
Ive already said I dont  think  the £63 charged for solicitors fees to be unreasonably high or 
unfairly applied  to Mr Ts mortgage account  in all the circumstances of this complaint. And 
so, from the all the evidence available to me, I dont  uphold  this part of the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7333156