K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained about  CIS General Insurance  Limited which  has turned 
down their insurance claim. 
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr S and Mrs S had a pressure cooker  which exploded in 2017. They claimed  on 
their CIS household  insurance policy for the pressure cooker, and for the damage it caused 
to their kitchen. CIS say Mr S and Mrs S exaggerated the damage caused, so it turned down  
their entire claim.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr S and Mrs Ss 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide further  comments. CIS didnt have  anything  
further to add. Mr S and Mrs S made a number of comments, and provided  further  
supporting evidence, which I thank them for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS turned down  Mr S and Mrs Ss claim because it thought it had been exaggerated due to 
the inclusion  of two items  the kitchen  kicking board and the kitchen worktop corner.  CIS 
was supported in this by an engineers report which  said:
In my view, the damage to the laminate covering on the end face of the work surface  and to 
the end of the kicking board could  not be explained  by the trajectory  of the Cooker base and 
its lid. [report by consulting engineer,  July 2017]
Given this, there were reasonable grounds for CIS to turn down the entire claim given the 
wording of the policy document:
If anyone  makes a claim  under this Policy  knowing any part of it to be false or fraudulently  
exaggerated, or if we suspect other financial crime in connection with your Policy,  we will not 
pay the claim and we may cancel your Policy  or declare it void from the date of the fraud  and 
cancel all other policies  you have with us
In short,  a number  of items have been included in a claim and an engineers investigation 
into the claim shows that the damage  to at least two of these items is inconsistent  with the 
event in question. Ordinarily this would  mean  the claim can be turned down. The sticking  
point was  and remains  whether theres a reasonable  explanation for the inclusion of 
these two items in the claim.
Mr S and Mrs S say they only claimed for the worktop because  they were advised to do so 
by the original loss adjuster (who visited in April 2017) who said replacing the hob would 
necessitate replacing the entire  work top. Mr S and Mrs S have also said that the kicking 
board was only included in the claim because the second loss adjuster (who  visited in May 
Ref: DRN720280422017) said it could be replaced because the policy had a matching scheme which  meant if 
part of a kitchen  unit was damaged then the whole  unit might need to be replaced.
In my provisional decision,  I didnt find sufficient evidence to show  Mr S and Mrs S had been 
misled in the way they said. In response  Mr S and Mrs S provided me with further detailed 
comments, and supporting evidence, to consider. Ive reviewed everything  theyve  provided,  
including the telephone  recording  between Mr S and the loss adjuster in July 2017.  
However, I will limit my findings  to the areas that impact on the outcome  of the decision 
rather than commenting  on everything  that the parties have  provided.
Many of Mr S and Mrs Ss comments ask me to question the logic of why they would have 
acted in the way they did rather than providing  compelling evidence that they were  misled 
into claiming for the damage to the two areas in question. For example, Mr S and Mrs S 
question why they glued back  a piece of laminate onto the kitchen worktop  ahead  meeting 
the loss adjuster when it would have made more sense to have left the worktop as it was if 
they were planning on claiming for damage  to it. They  say they subsequently found a spare 
roll of laminate that could have been used to repair the work surface  with the minimum of 
fuss  meaning there would have been  no need  to claim for it. They say there would have 
been no financial advantage in claiming for the corner work surface  because  they thought  
(initially at least) that they could claim for the entire kitchen work surface due to the damage 
to the hob. And they didnt  claim for the kicking board initially  which is evidence, in their 
opinion, that they wouldnt have claimed  for it subsequently unless there  was a good reason  
to do so  that reason being  the intervention of the second loss adjuster.
The problem Mr S and Mrs S face here is that the available evidence  points strongly  to the 
fact that two items were included in the claim when they shouldnt  have  been.  And given the 
available evidence from the meetings between the parties, it doesnt  look like they were  
misled into claiming for those items.  The argument  that it makes  little sense for them to have 
acted in this way is, in my view, less compelling in comparison.
Similarly, Mr S and Mrs S have pointed to evidence where they havent claimed for 
something, and have  kept the financial  cost to the insurer  to a minimum, to show  their 
intentions werent  to increase the pay-out from the claim. For example, they say they didnt 
claim for an expensive teak garden table even though  they could potentially have done  so 
given its vicinity to the event and the fact that it was showing signs of damage.  They say 
they told the loss adjuster not to contact a gate company because they were mindful that the 
company might escalate the potential cost of the claim.  And they say they told the second  
loss adjuster that the first loss adjuster had told them they couldnt claim for the full kitchen 
which they wouldnt have  done if they were exaggerating the claim  it would have made  
more sense to have kept quiet about  what the first loss adjuster had said.
As above, the problem Mr S and Mrs S face here relates to the balance I place on the 
tangible evidence  the engineering investigation, recordings of conversations,  photographic 
evidence and the like  against the arguments theyve provided to demonstrate their 
integrity. For the record, I make no comment on their integrity (although  I do acknowledge 
how important this is to them). But I hope  Mr S and Mrs S can appreciate why  for the 
purposes of assessing  a claim  speculating  on their integrity isnt as compelling as some  of 
the other evidence outlined  previously. 
Ive given consideration to Mr S and Mrs Ss point that the damage  to the two areas in 
question could have  been the result of the clean-up operation  that they undertook after the 
pressure cooker exploded.  Its likely that they still wouldnt have been able to claim for these  
Ref: DRN72028043two items if the damage had been  caused in this way. But it would  show the damage to 
these two areas was part and parcel  of the same event. And it would at least  give some 
credence to Mr S and Mrs Ss assertions that the damage wasnt  there prior to the explosion  
and would support  the argument that they were  just unsure about what happened. Viewed  in 
this light, their claim becomes more  understandable.
However, the type of damage doesnt seem consistent with just a cleaning-up operation.  And 
even if the damage  was caused in this way (for example, by a stiff brush as Mr S and 
Mrs S suggest),  I think it would  most likely have been noticed at the time, rather  than given 
as an explanation some  time later as the claims process progressed. Im satisfied this is the 
case even if I allow for the fact that the situation was stressful,  there was a need  to get the 
mess cleaned up as soon as possible  and the area wasnt  well lit. All of which means Mr S 
and Mrs S were claiming for damage caused  by the explosion when that explosion  
according to a scientific investigation   didnt cause that damage.  And other explanations for 
that damage arent, in my view, sufficiently compelling to make me think  CIS are acting 
incorrectly in turning down the claim.   
Ive also taken on board Mr S and Mrs Ss comments  regarding  the reliability  of the 
engineers investigation. They say the possibility the damage to the two areas in question  
was as a result of ricochets (rather than a direct hit from the exploding  pressure cooker) 
wasnt explored. And they say theyve been  told that the accuracy  of the investigation was 
only 51%. Neither point  persuades me to change my mind.  Even  if the investigations 
accuracy cant be guaranteed (and Ive no verification of the 51% figure  Mr S and Mrs S 
quote), it wouldnt be reasonable to re-run the investigation so long after the event. And even 
if a new investigation  was conducted, it still wouldnt prove incontrovertibly what  happened.  
Besides, I dont need to be certain about what happened. My role is to decide what  
happened based on the balance of probabilities  that is what  is most likely to have  
happened. The scientific investigation  does this  51% (if correct) is an indication  of what  is 
most likely to have happened. 
Mr S and Mrs S also say theyve been  accused of exaggerating their claim from the April 
2017 meeting  onwards, even though one of the reasons put forward for exaggerating  the 
claim  the kicking board   wasnt claimed  for until May 2017. I dont think  this changes  
anything though. The claim was an evolving process, but the items that were being claimed 
for did settle down and the key thing  is the kicking board was part of the final claim. 
Mr S and Mrs S also raise  some  procedural problems relating to the claim. For instance,  
they say (amongst other things) that they werent  provided with any written documentation 
during the claims  process and had to respond to questioning without having  had the chance 
to prepare or review  the evidence. And they say they were put through unnecessary 
questioning with regards to damage to a window  frame when they had already conceded  
that it shouldnt  be part of the claim. 
I have some sympathy for Mr S and Mrs S. There were areas of the claims handling process 
that could have gone better. CIS has accepted this and has offered to pay £200 
compensation. But investigating  a claim will always be time-consuming  and difficult  for the 
claimants, especially  if follow-up investigations  are required and the claim is, subsequently,  
turned down. In order to ask CIS to pay more than £200, I would need to be persuaded that 
it caused distress and inconvenience above and beyond what Id expect as part of an 
investigation into a claim.  I havent seen, or heard,  anything  along those lines. Thats not to 
downplay the impact this episode  has had on Mr S and Mrs S. But I think thats  mainly  due 
to the actual claim being turned down,  rather than the procedural  errors referred to above. 
Ref: DRN72028044At the time of my provisional decision, Mr S and Mrs S hadnt  paid in their £200 cheque. If 
this is still the case, and the original cheque is no longer  usable,  CIS should send a new 
cheque to Mr S and Mrs S for £200.  If the £200  has already been  accepted  by 
Mr S and Mrs S, then there is nothing further for CIS to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
CIS General Insurance Limited should  pay Mr S and Mrs S the £200  it has already offered 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused,  as outlined above.  But it doesnt  have  to do 
anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72028045COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained about CIS General Insurance Limited  which has turned down  their 
insurance claim. 
background
In 2017, Mr S and Mrs Ss pressure  cooker exploded. They claimed  on their household insurance  
policy for the pressure cooker, and for the damage it caused  to their kitchen. CIS say Mr S and Mrs S 
exaggerated the damage caused, so it turned down their entire claim.
Mr S and Mrs S complained  to CIS. It didnt  change its mind, so they brought their complaint  to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S and Mrs S asked  for an ombudsman to look at the 
matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to not uphold this 
complaint.
CIS appointed  loss adjusters, and engineering  experts, to investigate  Mr S and Mrs Ss claim. 
Although there  was disagreement between the parties about a number of the items being claimed for, 
CIS ultimately turned  down the claim  because of just two items  the kitchen kicking board and the 
kitchen worktop. CIS said it turned down the claim  because these two items couldnt have been 
damaged by the pressure cooker exploding,  meaning  the claim had been exaggerated. CIS relied on 
a scientific investigation by a third party to support their approach:
In my view, the damage to the laminate covering  on the end face of the work surface and to the end 
of the kicking board  could not be explained by the trajectory of the Cooker base  and its lid. [report by 
consulting engineer, July 2017]
It seems to me that the engineers report was a comprehensive piece of work carried  out by an expert 
in the area.  As such, I see no reason  to doubt the conclusion he came to. Im also satisfied that its 
fair and reasonable to turn down an entire claim if it has been exaggerated. But, for the avoidance of 
doubt, I think  its worthwhile  quoting  the policy document on this matter:
If anyone makes  a claim under this Policy knowing any part of it to be false  or fraudulently 
exaggerated, or if we suspect other financial  crime in connection with your Policy, we will not pay the 
claim and we may cancel your Policy or declare it void from the date of the fraud and cancel  all other 
policies you have with us
So, at face value, this is a relatively simple case. A number of items  have been included in a claim. A 
scientific examination  into the claim shows that at least two items are inconsistent with the event  in 
question. And, ordinarily,  this would mean the entire claim  can be declined. 
However, Mr S and Mrs S say they only claimed for the worktop  because  they were advised to do so 
by the original  loss adjuster (who visited in April 2017) who said replacing the hob would necessitate 
replacing the entire  work top. Mr S and Mrs S have  also said that the kicking board was only included 
in the claim  because  the second loss adjuster (who  visited  in May 2017) said it could be replaced  
because the policy had a matching scheme which  meant  if part of a kitchen unit was damaged then 
the whole unit might  need  to be replaced.
Ive considered Mr S and Mrs Ss comments carefully. But I still dont think  CIS did anything wrong in 
turning down  the claim. 
Ref: DRN72028046Firstly, Im conscious that Mr S and Mrs S are essentially saying that they were misled  into 
erroneously claiming for two separate  items on two separate  occasions by two separate  people. This 
seems unlikely  to me. Furthermore, CIS has said that replacing the hob wouldnt necessitate 
replacing the entire  work top. So it seems unlikely to me that when Mr S and Mrs S spoke to the loss 
adjuster in April 2017 they would have been advised  to claim for something that wouldnt  ever have  
been necessary.
None of the above is conclusive of course. However, there  isnt a recording of the April meeting to 
confirm what was discussed. There is, however, a recording of the May meeting. Although it doesnt 
cover the entire conversation, it is long and comprehensive. Unfortunately for Mr S and Mrs S it 
doesnt show  CIS misled them into claiming  for the work  top and kicking board. I say this because  
during a discussion  about  the different elements of the claim (just over an hour in), the loss adjuster 
mentions damage  to the work  surface.  Mr S agrees and mentions the trim going down the side of 
the work top and Mr S and his sister  then make  two, unprompted, references to a piece missing at the 
base of the unit. There  is then a discussion about what was repairable, whether a match could be 
found for the damaged  items and whether the whole  unit should be replaced. But this was only after 
the initial  confirmation from Mr S and his sister that the work top and kicking  board had been 
damaged by the explosion and were  both being  claimed  for. And, as outlined above,  scientific 
analysis shows neither  item could have been damaged by the explosion. 
I recognise its often difficult to separate out the damage caused by an incident  from damage caused 
by normal wear  and tear. So I accept policy holders may sometimes be unsure about  what  to claim 
for. But having reviewed the photos from the incident, its very difficult to see how an explosion from a 
pressure cooker on top of the hob could have caused damage to the kicking board at the bottom  of 
the unit. So I dont think claiming  for this can be put down  to an understandable  mistake  unless,  of 
course, Mr S and Mrs S were misled into doing so based on previous conversations. Unfortunately, as 
I said before, the previous conversation was in April and this wasnt recorded.  So there isnt any 
compelling evidence that they were misled in the way they suggest. Besides,  Mr S and Mrs S have  
said unequivocally that the kicking board was previously  excluded from their claim  and only put in as 
a result of the May meeting. So its the May meeting thats important in this respect.  And, as Ive said 
before, I dont think they were misled about the kicking  board in that meeting. 
That said, I do have sympathy  for Mr S and Mrs S. Its unfortunate that the April meeting wasnt 
recorded. It doesnt  look like the entire May meeting was recorded either. And, having  listened  to the 
May recording, its possible  that Mr S and his family  didnt fully appreciate the role the loss adjuster  
was performing. He was gathering  information  about the event and what items were  being  claimed 
for. He wasnt  there (at that point at least) to approve or reject claim items.  But in not rejecting any of 
the claim items there and then, I can see why Mr S and his family might,  mistakenly,  have thought 
CIS was satisfied with what they were  claiming for. Its perhaps not surprising therefore  that they 
didnt think about what they were claiming for more  thoroughly. This doesnt absolve Mr S and Mrs S 
of course, but I can see how a misunderstanding could have developed.   
It looks like CIS sent Mr S and Mrs S a cheque  for £200 to compensate for some avoidable delays  
whilst the claim was being  investigated, and for some of its communications which it says could have 
been better. My understanding is that Mr S and Mrs S havent paid in their cheque. However, taking 
everything into consideration, I think the fair and reasonable thing for CIS to do is to honour the offer it 
made. So, if the original  cheque is no longer  usable, CIS should  send a new cheque  to Mr S and Mrs 
S for £200. 
Finally, I recognise that Mr S and Mrs S have raised a number of points about  their claim and how it 
was dealt  with. For the avoidance of doubt, I have considered everything theyve raised.  But in my 
provisional decision,  Ive limited myself to discussing just those  areas  that are likely to impact  on the 
outcome of Mr S and Mrs Ss claim  and subsequent complaint.
Ref: DRN72028047In sum,  the evidence shows Mr S and Mrs S claimed  for items they werent entitled to claim for. And, 
given the available evidence, I dont think I can reasonably say they were misled  into doing so. It 
follows that I dont intend to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint them  in this 
way.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to 
not uphold this complaint.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7202804