K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided  credit 
irresponsibly.
background
In August  2018  Mr P agreed  a loan for £18,900 with NatWest. There were  to be 60 monthly 
instalments and the total repayable would be £24,517. The money  was to be used to pay off 
his wifes debts and to pay off some finance with another provider. Mr P says that it should 
have been obvious to NatWest that his income and expenditure wouldnt enable him to 
afford the repayments.
NatWest said itd rejected  four previous loan requests from Mr P, that hed made on his own 
behalf or in joint names with his wife, at around the same time. They said they used an 
automated system to check whether customers could afford repayments but that they had 
reasonably assessed Mr Ps ability to repay  the money theyd advanced.  They provided 
details of the acceptable credit score their system had generated and explained  that theyd 
not found any discrepancies between the information Mr P provided  to them  about  his 
expenditure and the information the system  considered.
But Mr P disagreed with their assessment and he referred his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think there was evidence the bank had done anything  wrong.  She noted 
that in addition to the banks comments,  they had given Mr P time to consider the loan and 
reflect on it. She didnt  think it was wrong for the business to consider whether Mr Ps wife 
was in employment too and she noted  that his wife had indeed repaid some  of the 
instalments before they separated. But she considered the bank wouldnt have known this 
was going to happen and therefore couldnt have been expected to consider it when making 
their assessment.
She noted that the net income NatWest  had used to carry out their affordability  checks  was a 
little less than what Mr Ps bank statements would have suggested  was available  so she 
didnt think NatWest had been unreasonable in their assessment.
But Mr P disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ps situation. I know  it will disappoint him and I wish I could do 
more but I agree with the adjudicators view. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN71941752Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether NatWest carried out proportionate 
checks, and at what information they had been  given  about Mr Ps financial circumstances.
The methods NatWest used to establish  affordability  were for them to decide but the 
practices and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could  
be proportionate to the amount of money being requested. 
NatWest have explained that before they approved this particular  loan they rejected four 
similar applications: two in Mr Ps sole name  and two in joint names.  I think that suggests  
they were analysing the applications. In particular I can see they rejected a request  to 
provide a loan of £25,000 in Mr Ps sole name.  So it seems they werent being irresponsible  
but were trying to make a reasonable assessment of affordability.
They allowed  Mr P time to reflect on his application too as Ive seen accounts from the 
branch that suggest they explained the implications  of him taking sole responsibility for a 
debt that was his wifes.  I dont think theres evidence Mr P was pressurised into taking out 
the loan and I think the breathing space  the bank allowed was a sensible precaution  in the 
circumstances.
NatWest have explained that they used automated methods to generate a credit  worthiness 
score. The software  reviewed several  issues such as credit bureau information  and it cross  
checked information Mr P provided about his income and expenditure and didnt find any 
anomalies. I think the loan was affordable  to Mr P at the time of application but I can see that 
his separation appears to have put additional financial strain on him that the bank  couldnt  
have been expected to take into account  at the time.
So whilst I have a great deal of sympathy  for the position Mr P finds himself in I dont think it 
would be reasonable to suggest this loan has been made irresponsibly or that NatWest need 
to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7194175