K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Nationwide Building Society, wont refund him under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
background
In April 2018 Mr R stayed  in holiday accommodation  booked  using his Nationwide credit 
card. He was very unhappy  with the quality of what was provided. 
The rooms  had been booked via a website, and payment was made to this site, for onward  
transmission to the property owner/supplier.  
Mr R wanted to complain under section 75 for misrepresentation, and get his money  back. 
So he submitted a claim to Nationwide. It reviewed this, and told him that because hed 
booked and paid for the rooms using the booking website, and not directly with the supplier,  
then he wasnt entitled to section 75 protection. It explained that in order  to benefit from 
section 75, it had to be shown that there was an unbroken debtor-creditor-supplier  (DCS) 
link. But that in his case, there was a fourth  link; the website he booked through.
Mr R didnt accept this. He believed that because  the website held out and advertised the 
accommodation, that section 75 did apply. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters, and agreed  that Nationwide  had been correct to tell Mr 
R that he couldnt use section 75 for his complaint, because his booking of the rooms  didnt 
satisfy the DCS criteria.
Mr R still didnt agree, and said that he believed the credit card would offer him some 
protection and he paid in accordance with the terms and conditions, so asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with Nationwide and our investigator that in this particular 
case Mr R doesnt qualify  for section 75 assistance.
I can see why Mr R will find this unfair  and I understand  why he thinks he should be 
protected when  using  his credit card. The DCS chain that is required by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 isnt discretionary. Without it, a credit card provider is entitled to decline a 
claim which is what has happened here. Im satisfied that the DCS was broken with the 
involvement of the booking  website to whom the credit card payment was made and so I 
cant say that Nationwide was wrong to decline the claim  and I cant ask t to do any more.
Ref: DRN78492212my final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking Nationwide  to take any further action to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849221