K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC rejected his section 75 claim when he 
complained about issues  hed experienced on a cruise.
background
Mr S booked a cruise and made a payment of £1230 towards  it using his Tesco  credit  card.  
He was unable  to leave the cruise ship in China due to not having  a visa. Hes also unhappy 
that a port of call in South Korea was removed from the itinerary. 
Mr Ss attempts  to resolve matters  with the merchant were unsuccessful  so he contacted  
Tesco to make a claim under section 75.
Tesco rejected  the claim. It said the merchants  terms  and conditions stated that customers  
were responsible for all travel documents and visas required  to enter  the countries visited  
and that therefore it was Mr Ss responsibility  to arrange a visa for China. Tesco  also said 
that because the cruise  ship hadnt been  able to stop in South Korea due to political unrest  
this was outside the merchants control.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Tescos response  so he complained to this service. He said that 
Tesco had failed  to consider the merchants responsibilities under the relevant package 
travel regulations. He felt the merchant shouldve  advised him at the time of booking that he 
needed a visa for China.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the merchants terms and conditions  
sated that it was the customers responsibility  to make sure they had al necessary  travel and 
health documents before departure. In relation to the port of call, the investigator said the 
decision to alter the itinerary had been made  by the cruise line and was due to unavoidable  
and extraordinary  circumstances.
Mr S didnt agree. He said it was clear from the package  travel regulations  that the merchant 
was responsible for providing information  about visa requirements  and that if hed been 
advised of the need  for a visa he wouldve applied for one.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. In order to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Tesco  Id need to be satisfied 
that theres been  a breach  of contract and that Tescos response to the claim under  section  
75 wasnt fair or reasonable. 
It might be helpful for me to set out my role here.  I considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ss complaint 
Ill take section  75 into account. But that doesnt  mean Im obliged to reach  the same  
outcome as, for example,  a court might reach if Mr S pursued  a claim for breach of contract.
Ref: DRN73942272Mr S has said that he only wants to focus on the visa aspects of the complaint now.  So I 
wont be commenting on the ports of call/change  of itinerary aspect in details, save to 
confirm that I agree  with the investigators  view in that the changes  to the itinerary were as a 
result of extraordinary circumstances and therefore not a breach of contract.
Mr S relies  on the package travel  regulations and says these oblige the merchant to advise 
the customer to make  the customer aware of any visa requirements.
Ive looked at the regulations. Regulation 7 states that the contracting  party shall provide the 
customer with general information  about  passport and visa requirements. 
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the regulations apply to the contract between Mr 
S and the merchant.  But Im not satisfied  theres  been a breach. The obligation  on the 
merchant is to provide  general  information (as opposed to specific  information). It would be 
impossible for an agent to know the visa requirements for every  country  for passport holders  
of all nationalities. 
Ive looked on the merchants website  and I can see that there is a link to information on visa 
requirements. If you click on the link it takes you to a page which shows  specific  visa 
requirements for a range of countries,  including  China.  Based on this Im satisfied the 
merchant complied with its obligations under the package travel regulations.
Ive also taken into account that in its terms and conditions the merchant  has made it clear 
that customers are responsible for making sure the hold all necessary travel  documents.  I 
dont think this contract term is unreasonable.
Taking both the regulations and the terms and conditions into account,  Im not satisfied that 
there has been a breach of contract.
Ive also considered whether theres  been  a misrepresentation. Mr S hasnt asserted a 
positive case in this regard  in other words, he hasnt said that he specifically asked the 
merchant about  visa requirements for the trip and was provided with incorrect  information.  I 
havent seen anything to suggest that theres  been a misrepresentation here.
Im sorry  to learn that Mr S wasnt able to disembark in China. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied that Tesco  has dealt  with the section 75 claim fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7394227