K820x#14Miss N say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies, one with a 
mortgage in 2002 and the other with a further  advance on that mortgage  in 2005.
 
background
Miss N took out the first PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2002. She borrowed more money in 
2005 and a top up PPI policy was set up to cover  the additional borrowing. Miss N paid a 
monthly amount  for the policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ns case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive considered whether Lloyds gained the consent  of Miss N for the PPI and whether it 
made it clear  that the policies were optional. 
Ive closely looked  at the paperwork  from both sales. To get the cover  on each occasion 
Miss N had to complete  an application  form for the cover that was separate  to the application 
for the mortgage.  I have seen the completed application forms for each sale.  In 2002 the 
mortgage application form contained a Yes box and a No box. I note the yes box was 
ticked. In 2005  the mortgage  offer states  you are not obliged  to take out any insurance 
through C&G as a condition  of this mortgage. So, overall I think  that Miss N knew  she was 
taking out PPI on each occasion  and knew she had a choice about doing so.
Lloyds recommended the PPI policies to Miss N, so it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the policies were suitable  for her. Miss N has confirmed that her circumstances were  
the same  when she took out the initial policy  in 2002, and when the policy  was amended  in 
2005. Ive looked at her circumstances at these  times and I dont think  it was an unsuitable 
recommendation. I say this because:
Miss N was both eligible for the policies.
Miss N told us that in 2001 she had six weeks off work with a condition.  And in some 
cases that might have led me to think a policy that excluded  a disability claim for that 
condition might make the policy unsuitable for Miss N. However, I must have regard 
for all the submissions made to me in a case.  And in the particular circumstances of 
this case, I have noted that the policies did not exclude claims for pre exiting 
conditions indefinitely.  Ive thought  carefully  about the fact that these  policies only 
excluded this condition if it reoccurred  in the first 24 months  of the cover. And I have 
also had some thought  for the fact this cover was being taken out to protect a 
mortgage that had a term many years in excess of that timeframe. 
Ref: DRN72761092Ive also considered what Miss N told us about this condition herself.  Miss N told us 
that the condition she suffered from in 2001 was caused by moving jobs;  a localised 
set of circumstances.  In fact Miss N told us that she thought this was a one-off 
condition. Whilst the condition did reoccur it was not until many  years later and Miss 
N told us that it was triggered  on that occasion by different circumstances. So, I think 
Miss N thought the condition was unlikely to reoccur  at the time of the sale.  So, 
considering the potentially  serious  implications of defaulting  an loan secured on her 
home, I think  that Miss N would have thought that this would be valuable cover. Ive 
also considered  that Miss N could have made a sickness claim for any condition that 
was not pre-existing  had she needed  to, or an unemployment claim if she lost her 
job. And Miss N was not affected by any of the other exclusions from or limits to the 
PPI policies. 
Im not pretending that this is a simple case to decide. But having considered all of 
the submissions made to me in this case,  I dont  think  this condition  made an 
otherwise suitable  sale unsuitable  or would have  put her off the policy  had she 
received better information about  this aspect of the policies  at the time of the sales.  
Miss N had a need for the policies. Miss N says she was entitled initially  to good  sick 
pay from her employer,  but this dropped significantly after six months. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Miss Ns sick pay entitlement, and wouldve lasted longer 
than her employer wouldve paid her at a full rate of pay. Miss N also says that she 
had no savings that wouldve helped at that time.  So I think  the PPI policies wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for Miss N. 
The policies appear to have been comparable in cost to other  policies offering similar 
insurance at the time and it appears  to have been affordable.
Taking all these things  into account  I think the PPI policies were suitable  for them.  
As well as checking the policies were right for Miss N, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policies so they could decide if they wanted to buy them. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, 
for the same reasons  I think the policies were suitable, Im not persuaded more information 
would have made a difference  to their decision to take out the PPI policies.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint. And I make no award 
against Lloyds  Bank  PLC.  
Ref: DRN72761093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.  
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7276109