K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs signed credit agreement which has a section which  asks 
applicants to tick the relevant box if they want PPI cover  or card protection.  There  is a 
printed cross  in the box next to credit card repayments cover. This policy was sold at a 
meeting, and I can see that the credit agreement also includes pre-printed personal 
details for Mr H, as well as details of his employment. From what  I know  of how Halifax 
sold policies around this time,  I think its likely the printed  cross and the other details  on 
the form wouldve only been added after a conversation between Mr H and Halifax. Mr H 
has signed the application  form, and if the PPI wasnt something that he wanted  I think  
Mr H couldve  questioned this at the time. 
Mr H has said he felt that taking the PPI would  help his application, but hes not said 
what Halifax said or did to make him feel that way. And I think the way the PPI was 
presented to him would  have made it clear that it was an optional product.
So thinking carefully about everything  Ive seen, I think Halifax made  it clear that Mr H 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. But I can understand why 
he might  not remember that now given how long ago the sale took place.
Halifax has said it recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check that it was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it wouldve been  useful  for him if something  went  wrong.  It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI wouldve put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said, including  what  hes said about the sick pay, 
redundancy pay, and savings he had. But the PPI would have paid out for longer than Mr H 
has said his full sick pay would have lasted. And would  have  meant any savings he had 
were available for other essential expenditure. So with all this in mind, I still think  the PPI 
could have provided him with a useful benefit.
Ref: DRN71113072This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr H back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr H ow Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt done 
so already.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111307