K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about Mr A and Ms Ys mortgage  with Nationwide Building  Society.  In 
December 2018,  Nationwide  extended  the mortgage  term to reduce the monthly  payment 
and ease pressure  on Mr A and Ms Ys finances. Mr A and Ms Y believe that Nationwide  
should have done this sooner.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 22 October 2019, which is attached  below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. I gave the parties  
until 5 November 2019 to reply; both have done so, saying they agree with my proposal for 
settling the dispute.
my findings
Ive considered afresh everything that the parties have said and provided.  Theres no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional decision, so I dont.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Nationwide Building Society to:
re-work Mr A and Ms Ys mortgage account on the basis  that the term extension  was 
implemented on 1 March  2018 rather than 1 December  2018; and
refund  to Mr A and Ms Y the aggregate difference  between  what  they would have paid 
and what they did pay to the mortgage  account between those dates if the term 
extension had been applied on 1 March  2018.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  Mr A and Ms Ys mortgage with Nationwide Building  Society.  In December 
2018, Nationwide extended the mortgage term to reduce the monthly payment  and ease  pressure on 
Mr A and Ms Ys finances. Mr A and Ms Y believe that Nationwide should have done this sooner.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so. No discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we 
Ref: DRN70421932provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  Mr A and Ms Y when my decision is published.
The series of events leading up to this complaint began with an application  Mr A and Ms Y made  for a 
further advance in early  2018. They had some unsecured consumer debts   primarily  on credit cards 
 that they wanted to consolidate onto the mortgage to reduce the costs of servicing them  monthly. 
During the initial discussions with Nationwide,  the possibility of an extension to the mortgage term 
was mentioned as another potential means of bring their monthly  outlay down.
Nationwide turned  the application for the further  advance  down; this resulted  in a complaint which  was 
eventually referred to us. An ombudsman colleague  reviewed that complaint earlier this year and 
didnt uphold  it. Mr A and Ms Y were very unhappy at the outcome and complained  about how wed 
handled the case; not least because  they thought there was a part of their complaint wed overlooked. 
Thats because in December 2018, at Mr A and Ms Ys instigation, Nationwide extended  the mortgage 
term. Mr A and Ms Y thought Nationwide  should have done this as soon as it had decided to reject 
the further advance application. Thats the gist of this follow-up complaint.  Our investigator wasnt 
persuaded Nationwide should have extended the term earlier; nonetheless he asked the society  if it 
was willing to do so retrospectively; it said it wasnt. 
Mr A and Ms Y asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review. They  believe 
Nationwide should have realised that the main driver  for the further advance to consolidate debt was 
their need for help with severe financial difficulties.  
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
To be clear,  Im not revisiting my ombudsman  colleagues decision  on the earlier complaint against 
Nationwide; nor am I revisiting the responses from colleagues to Mr A and Ms Ys complaints about 
our service or our data protection policies.  Where Ive mentioned  any of these  matters,  its merely to 
provide context to the narrative.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier,  if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round. 
Its sometimes easy for those with a stake in a complaint to fall into the trap of thinking that complaint 
resolution is solely about  finding  fault and/or attributing blame. But there can often be more  (or less) to 
it than that. There are occasions where  its less about deciding who did or didnt get things wrong and 
more about what will set things right. To put it another way, sometimes the outcome of a complaint is 
simply about finding a fair resolution,  and in my view this is one of those  instances.
Ref: DRN70421933Financial businesses  have a duty to treat consumers  in hardship  fairly, and consider offering  
forbearance where  appropriate. A term extension is one example  of forbearance, but its important to 
remember that no one is entitled to it by right. 
The debate thus far has focussed on what Mr A and Ms Y didnt or didnt expressly tell Nationwide 
(and about what Nationwide could or couldnt have inferred) about their wider financial pressures at 
the time of the further  advance application. Its possible to see both sides here. 
On the one hand, Nationwide can reasonably  argue that Mr A and Ms Y had known from 
February 2018 onwards  that a term extension was a potential  option,  and if they truly needed  it, could 
have actively pursued it earlier than they did. On the other  hand, Mr A and Ms Y can equally 
reasonably argue that Nationwide  could have read between the lines about their financial position 
and been more  proactive  in coming back to the term extension once the further advance  had been 
refused. 
Both positions are plausible  without  being compelling, and to my mind,  there isnt enough  here for me 
to conclude that Nationwide was necessarily  at fault in not pre-empting another conversation about a 
term extension as soon as it was apparent  the further advance application would  be declined. Nor do I 
think it would be appropriate  for me to say Mr A and Ms Y should have said or done more to prompt  
that discussion either.
But what I can do is consider what the likely  outcome would have been  if one or other of the disputing 
parties had brought the subject of a term extension up once it was apparent the further advance 
application would be unsuccessful. When I do that, based on everything thats  been said and provided 
thus far, I think it more  likely  than not that that both Nationwide and Mr A and Ms Y would have 
agreed it was a sensible idea, given the circumstances.  
That being the case, it seems to me that the investigators suggestion of backdating the term 
extension is a good idea,  not because it remedies  an error or omission, but because it is a fair and 
reasonable resolution that both parties should  be able to live with in a spirit of compromise.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr A and Ms Y have been for so long here, its a 
natural subjective reaction  to want to pursue every  individual issue with vigour. But I have a different 
remit. I have  to be objective, and impartial,  and sometimes  that means stepping back from the fine 
detail and taking an overview.  It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific 
question that comes  up, if I dont consider  doing so will affect the overall  outcome.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that this complaint should  
fairly be resolved by Nationwide Building  Society:
re-working Mr A and Ms Ys mortgage  account on the basis that the term extension  was 
implemented on 1 March  2018 rather than 1 December 2018;  and
refunding to Mr A and Ms Y the aggregate difference between what they would  have paid and 
what they did pay to the mortgage account between those dates if the term extension had been 
applied on 1 March  2018.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 5 November  2019, or sooner if both parties  
confirm theyve said and provided everything they want in response to this provisional  decision. 
Neither party  need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70421934
Ref: DRN7042193