K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) charged him transaction fees on 
money transfers to his parents abroad. Prior  to August 2018  he says he wasnt charged  
anything, but since  that time he has incurred  them.  
background
Prior to August 2018  Mr K transferred  money  to his parents abroad,  without charge. He 
complains that he received no advance notice that Tesco were  seeking to impose charges 
on such transfers. He said that when he rang in August 2018 querying the charges imposed, 
the advisor he spoke  to did not explain that new charges had been implemented and in fact 
provided him with a refund.  He said if he had been made  aware at that time of the reason for 
the charges he would have then made alternative arrangements in the future.
Mr K then went  on to make more transfers  to his parents incurring further charges which he 
thinks is unfair.
Tesco said that in April 2018 they sent Mr K a Notice of Variation (NoV)  advising of changes 
to his accounts terms and conditions. The notice  stated  that Tesco were changing the types  
of transactions  that they considered to be a cash transaction, which included 
Wire/International Money Transfers. As a result they argued Mr K was notified that future 
transactions would  incur  a cash handling  fee for using his card.
Tesco acknowledged  that in August they had refunded charges when Mr K had rung, but 
said that had been on the mistaken belief that the transaction had been a Curve transaction  
which did not attract charges. As a result they credited Mr Ks account with £25.00  by way of 
compensation.
Mr K was unhappy with Tescos response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked into 
the complaint  but didnt think Tesco had done  anything wrong since they had given Mr K the 
requisite notice of the change to the terms and conditions. Mr K disagreed  with that view and 
so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
The evidence shows that Mr K was sent an electronic statement in April 2018  which  set out 
on the first page that there was to be a variation to the terms and conditions  and provided an 
Ref: DRN72948492electronic link to the full NoV. That notice  states  that changes  would  be made from the 
31 May 2018. 
The agreement Mr K signed when he opened his account evidences that he agreed Tesco  
had the right to amend its terms and conditions  provided they gave him 30 days notice. That 
notice was given  on the April statement and the charges applied  after the 31 May and so 
Tesco have  acted  in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
I do appreciate Mr Ks point that he called in August 2018 and the advisor failed to tell him 
specifically about  the changes to the terms and conditions and in fact wrongly refunded him. 
I can understand that Mr K would then perhaps feel as though charges were not applicable  
going forward. However, despite that error, Mr K was given notice of the changes and it 
would seem he has just not seen them.  
Having been given the correct notice, then whether or not Mr K read the changes  to the 
terms and conditions, he is deemed to have been  made aware of those changes  and their 
implementation. Every  bank customer has a responsibility to manage their account for 
themselves, and checking and reading  the NoV is something they should  do carefully. I 
cannot agree therefore that Tesco have acted  unfairly. 
I agree  that their advisor provided a poor service in August 2018. Tesco have acknowledged 
that by providing  a compensatory payment of £25, which I think  is reasonable and in line 
with similar  awards this service would make in circumstances like this for distress and 
inconvenience, and I think it is fair.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. Im not satisfied that Tesco  have treated Mr K 
unfairly, so Im not going  to ask it to do anything further and Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7294849