K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that due to TSB Bank plc (TSB)  branch errors she was inconvenienced, 
lost out on an incentive, and her credibilitys  been  brought into question.
background
Mrs S is represented in this complaint by Mr E. For ease of reference, Ill refer throughout 
only to Mrs S.
On 3 April 2018,  Mrs S visited a TSB branch to open  an account. She intended to take 
advantage of a soon-to-expire incentive offer whereby  if she was referred by a friend,  and an 
account successfully  opened, theyd both receive  £75.
Mrs S says that when  she was asked for identification,  she produced her passport (non-UK)  
and her national  ID card (non-UK). She says that branch  staff told her shed  also need a UK 
visa in order to accept the passport,  and that it declined to consider her ID card, or take a 
copy of it. 
She also says she was told her account  card would be sent out in 1-2 days, which was 
important as she was due to travel.
She says that the account card never  arrived, which caused her problems while abroad, as 
she didnt have access to funds. And that she had to spend time calling TSB, and making  
other arrangements. 
Later in April Mrs S complained to TSB. It investigated and sent a final response  on 1 May 
2018. In this it explained that Mrs Ss version of events didnt match with its one; specifically, 
that she was asked in branch for her national ID card,  but said she didnt have it and wasnt 
able to get it as she was due to travel. 
It also said it would never  have told her that he account card would be sent in 1-2 days, as 
this is never  the case, and the standard time is 5-7 days. 
As it didnt  think it had made a mistake, and followed the correct procedures,  it didnt  uphold  
the complaint.  
Mrs S didnt agree, and brought her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked onto matters, and received further evidence from both parties. She 
concluded that TSB hadnt made a mistake, or treated Mrs S unfairly,  so she didnt uphold  
the complaint.
Mrs S didnt agree. She felt that TSB was acting dishonestly in respect  of the date of its final 
response letter, and wasnt giving the true version of events of what  happened  in branch 
when she attempted  to open an account. 
So she asked for an ombudsmans review.
Ref: DRN72137122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this is one I can uphold. 
I know this will be very disappointing to Mrs S. I dont doubt the genuinely strong belief she 
holds about whats  happened here. So Id like to explain why I think this decision is fair to 
both parties.  
This is a difficult complaint evidentially. A fact Mrs S is clearly aware of. It largely rests on 
anecdotal testimony from the two parties  in dispute. This means its very difficult to 
corroborate both sides. 
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. We dont have the same investigatory 
powers, and we cant cross examine  witnesses.  Our remit isnt forensic. Its to look at the 
available evidence, and make a decision thats fair to both parties.  
So Ive considered the verbal evidence, as well as the documentary proof thats available. 
Having done so, Im persuaded  that TSBs version of events is more  likely to be correct, on a 
balance of probabilities. I say this because in addition to the witness evidence from two staff 
members, what  they say is backed-up by system notes and the actions  that were  taken  at 
the material times, which again are documented.
Mrs S says she offered  her national ID card, but it was refused. TSB says that this didnt 
happen, and that in actual  fact, its exactly what was needed, and it was asked for and Mrs S 
said she couldnt bring it in because she was travelling. I appreciate  this is directly at odds 
with Mrs Ss recollection, which is that she tried to offer it and was frustrated it wasnt taken; 
and also that she wasnt immediately due to travel, and had time to come  back into branch 
with the document had she known it was necessary.  
The truth of the matter is that well never know for sure what was said. What we do know is 
that the account couldnt be opened,  as sufficient identification hadnt  been provided, which 
led to Mrs Ss complaint.  
Ive not found  it easy to reach this conclusion.  I dont have  any reason to think  Mrs S is being 
dishonest. But neither  do I think TSB is. And on a weighing  of evidence basis, it had more to 
support its case.
I know Mrs S has concerns about the authenticity of TSBs evidence, and has asked several  
questions about  it. Im a lawyer, although I dont work in that capacity as an ombudsman, 
and Ive considered  this evidence. Theres so suggestion to me that any of it has been 
manipulated, doctored, or backdated.  I accept  that its a true reflection of what TSB staff 
recalled happened  at the time. Whether that recollection is correct, I cant be certain, but Ive 
no reason to suspect  that its not.
So I cant make  a finding that TSB made a mistake when Mrs S tried to open her account.  
She didnt  have the correct ID, so TSB told her what it needed and she said she didnt have  
it. So the account wasnt opened.
The £75 incentive was only payable on the successful opening of an account. As I cant  say 
the reason this didnt happen was TSBs  fault, I cant hold it responsible  for this loss.
Ref: DRN72137123I think what happened heres been  an unfortunate set of events. Im sorry that Mrs S was 
inconvenienced, but Im afraid I cant link that to faults or mistakes on TSBs  part. 
I believe that my decision not to uphold the complaint is a fair and reasonable one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E, representing 
Mrs S, to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7213712