K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Joseph R Lamb  Independent Financial  Advisers Limited (referred  
to from now on as the business) gave him inappropriate  advice in 1999 to transfer the value  
of his deferred pension  benefits from a former employers occupational pension  scheme  
(OPS) to a section 32 Buy-out plan.
background
Mr F is a finance professional who approached  the business for advice on what to do with 
his deferred pension benefits  with a former employer. It was noted  that the benefits were  
worth over £150,000 and that when he left his former employer in January 1997 he was 
earning over £170,000  p.a.
The Transfer  Value  Analysis Report  (TVAR) dated  15 April 1999 said that to replace  the 
benefits provided by his former scheme the transfer  value would need  to grow at 5.88% p.a. 
to age 55 and 6.73% p.a. to age 60. The transfer  went ahead and a payment of over 
£170,000 was received by the new provider in April 1999.
In October 2016 some  17 years later Mr F complained to the business about the advice 
that he received to transfer in 1999.  This complaint was investigated by the adjudicator at 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. The adjudicator upheld the complaint.
The business did not agree and considered that the complaint was timebarred. The issue  
of whether the complaint  was timebarred was addressed by the adjudicator  in a letter 
dated 26 June  2017. In this the adjudicator  stated  that the complaint was not timebarred 
and was one the Financial  Ombudsman Service could consider.
On 3 July 2017 it appears that the business accepted the adjudicators view that this was 
a complaint that this service could investigate.
On 31 July 2018 I issued a provisional  decision on the merits of the complaint in which I
stated that I was minded to conclude that the complaint should be upheld.
On 30 August 2018 the business then argued  that the Financial Ombudsman Service could 
not investigate  the complaint because:
    Mr F had misrepresented his level of investment knowledge and should be 
timebarred from 2005 when he passed CF21 Investment  adviser 
permissions.
   Mr F had made inappropriate statements about  his financial position.
   Mr F had been  a director at a financial business for over 10 years.
   Whilst he may not have been  an equity trader as a director he would have (or 
should have) known about investment returns etc.
   He  subsequently  held a number of equity sales and investment adviser roles.
Whilst he may not have been  a pension  expert  he would have known about yields 
and he had held CF21 Investment Adviser roles.
Ref: DRN76751802   Mr F should have  known  from 2005/6  that his funds were  not performing and 
therefore the complaint should  be time-barred.
Mr F did not agree and stated that just because he had CF21 status this did not mean 
that he knew anything  about pensions or the fact that the former  scheme  benefitted from 
a money purchase  underpin.
The business argued that the significant  fall in value of the pension transfer plan would (or 
should) have alerted Mr F to the fact that he should  have had cause for complaint  much 
sooner than he did.
However, Mr F noted that whilst the original transfer value of £172,787.16 was received on
13 April 1999, it had increased in value in most  years apart from a slight  fall in April 2001 
and another in April 2003.  Since  then the policy had increased in value to £450,835 as at    
3 April 2017. This represented an average  rate of return of over 5% p.a.c.
jurisdiction
The business has continued to argue that Mr F has made his complaint too late and that he 
knew or should have  known  that he had cause for complaint in 1999.  It continues to believe 
that the complaint should be timebarred.
The business has referred in detail to the fact that in 1999 Mr F went  to seek  advice about 
the transfer that had recently taken  place from an accountant that had been  recommended 
to him by the business. 
I note that this meeting happened  some  20 years ago. There  are unfortunately no records  
from the time of what was discussed  and I therefore  cannot place any real weight  on 
recollections of what might have been  discussed at the time. This is because  with the 
passage of time memories fade and any recollection of technical discussions  will become 
unreliable. I do however  note that there is no evidence that Mr F complained  about the 
advice that he had received in 1999. I also note that Mr F continued to use the business as 
his advisers for many years afterwards. This in my opinion  would indicate  that Mr F did not 
have cause for concern at that time.
It is apparent that the transfer value  report that was produced for Mr Fs advisers set out that 
if the deferred benefit in the former OPS would have  on the assumptions used revalued to 
provide a pension of £48,093 at age 60. This figure  was not guaranteed. In lieu of this 
benefit a transfer  value  of £153,783  was quoted.
After the transfer  had taken place Mr F received annual statements from the provider. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  requested copies of the statements that were provided  to see 
if these should  have given Mr F cause  for concern.
The provider has not been able to supply all of the statements  requested but has managed 
to supply this service with a number of statements.
In my opinion it would not have been  possible for Mr F to compare the projected pensions  
that were shown on the statements after 2008 with the projected pension  benefits that was 
shown in the Transfer Value Analysis  Report. The later figures were not directly comparable.
Ref: DRN76751803The projected pensions  shown on the annual statements were based on assumptions and 
the figures varied wildly.
In 2013, for example, the projected pensions at age 65 were produced using assumed 
growth rates of 3.3% and 7.3%. The projected  pensions shown were £18,000 and £58,400 
respectively. Given this difference I do not consider that Mr F could have compared the 
benefits from the transfer plan with the benefits from the former OPS.
 
I also note after 2015 the projections on the annual statements were shown in real values 
(i.e. after removing  the effects of future inflation) and these would not be comparable  with 
the projected values  that would be payable in the future. I therefore  do not think that the 
statements that Mr F received would  have given him cause for complaint.
The business has considered the statement made  now by Mr F that he did discuss  the 
transfer with an accountant  shortly  after the transfer  had taken place  indicates  that Mr F had 
cause for concern about the advice that he had received. Therefore the business concluded 
that the complaint that is being made  now has been  submitted outside the time limits allowed 
in our rules.
In my jurisdiction decision I stated that I disagreed  with this argument. I noted  that Mr F has 
continued to use the business  as his financial adviser until recently.  I consider this would 
indicate that after the meeting with the accountant it appears that Mr F was not unhappy with 
the advice that he had received. 
It was only after Mr F appointed a new adviser  who had looked at his existing pension 
provision that he realised that the transfer that had taken place in the past might  have been 
unsuitable.
I therefore still consider  that the complaint made by Mr F is one that this service  can 
investigate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F had been told that the critical yield required on the assumptions  used  to match  the 
value of the benefits given  up was 6.73% to age 60. This was relatively  low because in 1999  
the value of the money purchase  underpin  exceeded the value of the OPS benefits. The 
transfer value  offered  was therefore  greater  than it would otherwise have been and the 
critical yield was reduced. 
By April 2017 some  18 years after the transfer of £170,000 had taken place the transfer  
value had grown to about £450,000.  This represents  a return  of around 5.2%. I agree that 
the achieved return is slightly lower than the critical yield that had been  quoted  of 6.73%. 
However, in my opinion,  this would not have  caused  Mr F any concern as he may have  
expected that a final or terminal bonus would be added to his with profit funds when  he 
retired.
I do not consider  that Mr F would have been  aware of the impact  of failing annuity rates on 
the level of benefits that would be payable from his with profit policy.  Mr F would have  not 
Ref: DRN76751804been aware from reviewing the policy values that as annuity rates had dropped  the fund at 
retirement required to match the benefits  that had been up in the past would have increased.
I note that when determining the critical yield calculation  in 1999 the annuity rates used were 
based on interest rates of around  5.5%.  However by 2016  the annuity  rates  to be used were 
based on interest rates of around  2%. This would mean that the same  pension fund would 
secure a much lower  annuity.
There is no evidence that Mr F would have been  aware or should have been aware of this 
fact and how it would impact on his retirement  pension until he approached a new adviser.
 
In my opinion, if Mr F had been made  aware  that the OPS provided  a money purchase 
underpin, he would not have transferred out to the new plan recommended  by the business. 
I therefore uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  against Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited, and that a fair and reasonable outcome  would be for the business to put 
Mr F, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers Limited must undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision. 
Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers Limited must contact the Department for 
Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs contribution history to the State Earnings  
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These  details should  then be used to include a 
SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
  
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Fs pension  plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 40%. So making a notional  deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award :
Ref: DRN76751805I require Joseph  R Lamb  Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr F compensation 
as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr F 
within 90 days of the date Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers Limited  receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Joseph R Lamb 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr F this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Joseph R Lamb  Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr F the 
balance. I further  recommend  interest to be added  to this balance at the rate of 8% per year 
simple for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Joseph R Lamb Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited  to pay Mr F from the date it receives notification of his acceptance 
of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr F accepts my determination, the money  award is binding on Joseph R Lamb 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited. My recommendation is not binding  on Joseph R 
Lamb Independent  Financial Advisers  Limited .    
Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr F may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76751806COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION ISSUED ON 31 JULY 2018
complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that Joseph R Lamb  Independent  Financial Advisers Limited (the 
business) gave him inappropriate advice in 1999  to transfer the value of his accrued 
benefits in his former employers occupational  pension scheme  (OPS) to a Section 32 
buy- out plan.
background
In 1999 a Client Financial  Information  Form (more commonly known as a fact find)
showed that:
 Mr F was aged 36, single and intended to retire between 50 and 55.
 Mr F had a balanced  attitude to risk.
 Mr F had worked as a UK equities  broker.
 Mr F had a house valued at £300,000 with a £150,000 mortgage.
 Mr F had various other investments to the value of £100,000.
 The fact find addendum dated  30 March  1999  which appears to have been signed  
by
Mr F said under the heading Pension Transfer that:
I understand that where a Transfer is being made  from a Final  Salary  
Occupational Pension Scheme to a Section 32 or Personal Pension  
Transfer Plan that the guaranteed defined benefits  will be given up. I also 
understand that the Pension  benefits  received from the new Transfer  
arrangement are not guaranteed but depend  on Investment returns, 
charges, and annuity rates on retirement. I have been satisfied  of the 
Investment yield required  to match my current defined benefits and I am 
satisfied that this is an acceptable and achievable  rate of return.
There is an illustration for a Section 32 buy-out  plan dated 7 April 1999 which shows  the 
projected benefits from a transfer of over £170,000. This illustrated potential  fund and 
yearly pension benefits payable from age 60 assuming the standard rates of future  
investment returns of 6%, 9% and 12% that had been set down by the regulator.  The 
paperwork showed that if the transfer went ahead commission  would  be payable to the 
adviser of over £10,000 (or 5.8% of the transfer  amount).
The Transfer  Value  Analysis Report  (TVAR) dated  15 April 1999 showed  that Mr F had 
been a member of the former scheme between  for almost 10 years. His normal  
retirement age was 60. The report stated  that to replace the benefits provided by his 
former scheme, his transfer value would need to grow  at 5.88% p.a.c. to age 55 and 
6.73% p.a.c.to age 60.
The transfer went ahead and a payment of over £170,000 was received by the new 
provider on 13 April 1999.
It appears that 66% of the transfer  amount was then invested in the with profits fund, 17% 
in the UK equity  fund and 17% in the South East Asia fund.
Ref: DRN76751807In October 2016 (some 17 years later)  Mr F wrote to the business to complain about the 
advice that he had received to transfer  out of his former employers OPS. Mr F believed  
that the benefits from the new plan were  not going to match the benefits that he would 
have received from his former employers OPS.
Mr F was also unhappy and had concerns with the TVAR report that had been produced 
as he considered that the critical yields that had been calculated were incorrect.
The business investigated the matter  but rejected the complaint on 15 February  
2017 arguing that:
   Its interview note of 22 February 1999 recorded:
On balance [Mr F] feels the CY [Critical Yields]  are achievable and with his 
longstanding role in equity markets and knowledge of investments overall, 
he felt ok with these  numbers and accepted the risk of possibly losing and
getting lower pension benefits.
   The product providers  literature compared historic periods of 5 year investment 
returns from a mixed  asset fund and its with profits  fund. Not one showed 
annualised returns lower than 10% in the 6 periods considered.
   Furthermore,  the FTSE 100 had given returns of 17.47% pa, 20.86%  pa, 15.77% pa
& 17.52% pa over the 1 year, 3 year, 5 year and 10 year periods to 1 January  1999.
   The Scheme booklet explained that early retirement was permitted from age 50 
with the consent  of the employer and that the pension would  be reduced by an 
amount calculated to take account of the early payment.  It was advised by the 
Scheme that at age 55 the reduction  was 45.3%. This was shown on the product 
providers TVAR.
Mr F said that whilst  he did not recall signing the Factfind Addendum in March 1999 it 
appears that he must have done  so. However,  he would question why this was not 
referred to in his Pension Suitability Report  dated 16 April 1999. Of great  concern to him 
was the date format  on the document that was certainly not in his writing.  He 
remembered at the time being told that the transfer  value  could be affected if he did not 
sign the required paperwork  within a certain time window and felt pressurised  into doing 
so.
Mr F then complained  to the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
On 12 April 2017, one of our adjudicators wrote to Mr F rejecting his complaint.
On 25 April 2017, Mr F rejected the adjudicators findings and said in respect of the Factfind
Addendum dated 30 March 1999 that:
The Addendum was I allege not signed by me and it was done after the transfer 
had taken place  and the cheque issued. The date on the document  is not my 
writing.
On 17 July 2017, the business wrote to the Financial Ombudsman Service  setting out 
the reasons why it believed that the advice to transfer was appropriate.  In addition,  it 
said that Mr F was a senior investment professional and so was in its view capable  of 
saying no to the adviser if he did not wish to transfer.
The business thought it unlikely if Mr F had felt pressured into signing the transfer forms 
Ref: DRN76751808as he now suggests  that he would have continued to use the business  for financial advice 
over the next 18 years.
In July 2017 and August  2017, Mr F argued:
   Who was monitoring the fund performance? Why was his pension not looked at 
from inception until June 2008 and then no major alert given?
   Over a period when  there were  various  financial and economic crises  that 
dramatically affected investment  returns and the economic  outlook  there  was 
never a review of the plan. What was he paying  the business for?
   The regulator  undertook a review  of the With Profits business in February  2001 
and a well-known analyst at that time said that the industry was in terminal  
decline. Why he was not advised to look at his investments  in the policy?
   Was it ethical (or even legal)  for the adviser  to be appointed as a Trustee of the 
Section 32 buy-out  plan. There was definitely  a conflict  of interest  and without 
doubt a complete lack of duty of care.
   The business was driven by commission and the product provider that was 
selected at that time paid the best commission.
The business said that from its files it appeared that it had received statements from the 
new provider in March  2000 and March  2001. It had also found a copy letter  forwarding the 
2000 statement  to Mr F. The business  then said that its files contained  no other statements 
since that date. So it would appear  that the product provider had been  sending those 
statements directly to Mr F.
In August 2017 Mr F said:
 He did not understand  pensions.
 He would have  thought that having  been  advised to move his gold plated final 
salary pension the performance  of his policy would be monitored, especially  as the 
fund was 40% away from the projections  after 9 years. The reason for transferring 
was his desire to retire at 50, yet with just 4 years to go the pension  policy  was 
way off course.
 The business  said on 1 April 1999  that he had changed  his mind with regards to 
one of the funds to be invested  in. However,  this was done as a result of advice 
from the business.
 He was never told that his Section  32 buy-out plan pension  fund was never going 
to pay out as promised. What  was he paying  a fee for?
 He failed to see how the FCAs principles of business  concerning  Customers
Interests  and Communications with clients had been  adhered  to.
   The business  had said that it received statements from the product provider in 
March 2000 and 2001. And only had evidence of forwarding the 2000  copy to him. It 
then ceased to advise him. This was an abject failure  and the FSAs/FCAs 
Principles of Business had also not been  adhered to in relation to this.
 Mr F has stated  that in 1999 his house was not worth £300,000 as recorded on 
the fact find.
 Mr F has also stated  that he did not hold investments valued at £100,000 in 1999.
Mr F has made various further submissions that have  been considered  by the 
adjudicator but as agreement was not reached  the complaint has been referred to me 
for a decision.
Ref: DRN76751809my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and having  done so I am minded to 
reach a different conclusion to that reached  by the adjudicator.
I note first that Mr F has stated that he was employed as a UK Equity  broker.  Mr F was not 
a pensions expert.
Mr F had been a member  of his former  employers OPS from 1 May 1987 to 31 January
1997. That scheme was a final salary  scheme  but with a money purchase underpin.
This could  have been seen from the transfer  out statement  dated  7 January 1999 that 
set out that the current transfer value of the deferred  pension  benefit that had been  
accrued in the final salary scheme was over £135,000.
The statement  then stated:
Note: this member has a personal pension account (money-purchase underpin) 
within the scheme. If a transfer takes place the value of the members personal 
pension account  at that date will be compared  with the above transfer value and 
the greater amount paid. The current value of the members personal pension 
account is £153,783.60.
This should have  made it clear to the business  that Mr F would get the greater of the 
value of his money  purchase pot or the value of his deferred pension benefits.
I do not consider that there  was any need to transfer as Mr F was able to benefit  from the 
fact that there was a money purchase  underpin  in the OPS  and that Mr F would receive  
on retirement the greater  of the money  purchase  fund or the value of the deferred  
pension benefits.  Essentially, he might  benefit if there were strong investment returns  on 
the money purchase pot and any losses would  be limited because he couldnt receive 
less than the value of the deferred benefits.  In my view, these were significant benefits to 
his existing pension.  Its not clear whether the business pointed them out to Mr F and I 
have not seen sufficient reasons from the business  to explain why he was advised to 
transfer. In the circumstances  I do not agree that the business  should have advised Mr F 
to transfer.
The investment returns  that were being achieved on the money  purchase  pots in the 
former scheme were  based on the returns  achieved on a balanced  managed fund. I have 
considered whether the advice to transfer and to invest over two-thirds of the transfer  
amount in the with profits fund was appropriate. Mr F was recorded  as having a balanced  
attitude to risk and in my opinion, if he had been  advised to transfer, he should  have  been  
advised to invest in a balanced managed fund in line with his recorded attitude to risk.
The business has argued that Mr F was a risk taker with his financial decisions. It noted  
that Mr F had held a number of senior  jobs in the asset management and stockbroking 
industry. Indeed  it noted that Mr F had a role of Director in his former  employer.  However 
Mr F has disagreed. He states that he was an equities broker and his role was to match 
buyers and sellers. This did not make  him a financial expert. The fact that his former job 
role had the title Director in it does  not imply anything as in that type of business lots of 
Ref: DRN767518010individuals have  the title Director in their job roles.
Mr F has mentioned that he only took and passed one investment exam in October 
2004 which was some 5 years after the transfer that had taken place. He was not an 
investment expert as suggested by the business.
Overall, while  I accept  Mr F likely had some investment  knowledge, Im satisfied Mr F 
wasnt an expert in pensions, based on what hes said and which  I have little reason to 
disbelieve.
I note that Mr F was recorded as having  a balanced attitude to risk. In the 
circumstances I consider that he should have been advised  to invest  his pension 
provision in a balanced  managed fund. I am surprised therefore  that Mr F was advised 
to invest twothirds of the pension transfer into a with profits fund where the returns  
would have been expected to be lower  but more stable.
Given the fact that Mr F would  get the value of the deferred pension benefits or the 
money purchase underpin if greater there was in my opinion little to be gained  from 
transferring out to a new pension  transfer plan. If investment  returns in future were good  
then Mr F would  benefit from the increase in value of his money purchase underpin.
The business has stated  that its Terms of Business set out that it will not give further 
advice unless requested to do so. However  there is no evidence that Mr F (who was not a 
pension expert) was aware that the performance  of his transfer plan should  be reviewed 
regularly and that he had to request  such reviews.
It was certain however that on transferring out from the OPS Mr F would incur initial 
expenses. It is also likely that in future the charges on the pension  providers  funds would 
be expected to be higher than the charges on the in-house pension  scheme arrangement 
where charges  tend to be low.
In summary, Mr F was in an arrangement where  he would receive  the greater of the 
revalued final salary benefits  that he had accrued or the value of the money purchase 
benefits that he held in the scheme. These were significant benefits that were not 
outweighed by any of the benefits of transferring. This unsuitable  advice to transfer 
was compounded by investing in a fund that would be expected  to produce  lower but 
stable returns and taking  out a policy that would likely have higher charges. I consider 
that Mr F should have been told not to transfer.
In my opinion  if Mr F had been  told not to transfer  then I consider that he would 
have followed that advice  and would not have transferred.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  the complaint, and that a fair and reasonable 
outcome would be for the business to put Mr F as far as possible, into the position  he 
would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers Limited must undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
Ref: DRN767518011This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision,  and using the 
most recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision).  In accordance  
with the regulators  expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision.
Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers Limited may contact the Department 
for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs contribution history to the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Fs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
The compensation should if possible be paid into Mr Fs pension  plan. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction to allow  
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mr F would have  been yet to take a tax-free cash  sum from the 
occupational scheme,  25% of the future loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been 
taxed according to his likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So 
making a notional deduction  of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
Where I consider  that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that 
might exceed £150,000,  I may recommend that the business pays  the balance.
determination and money award:
I minded to require Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers  Limited  to pay Mr F
compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must  where possible be paid to Mr 
F within 90 days of the date Joseph  R Lamb  Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess 
of 90 days, that it takes Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers  Limited  to pay 
Mr F this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation  is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period  in which interest  wont apply.
Ref: DRN767518012recommendation :
If the amount produced  by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds £150,000, I am 
also minded to recommend that Joseph  R Lamb Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
pays Mr F the balance.
I further recommend interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Joseph R Lamb Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited to pay Mr F from the date it receives notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision, as set out above.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7675180