K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Mrs R took out two loans  with Satsuma in October  2016. The first loan was for £700. But 
Mrs R repaid the first loan in full after a couple of days, and replaced it a few days  later with 
a loan for £1,000. Mrs R fell into difficulties with her repayments on the second loan straight 
away, and set up a payment  arrangement  on the account.
Mrs R says she had a serious gambling  problem when  she applied for the loans. She 
believes that Satsuma  should have carried out more thorough affordability checks and 
checked her bank statements. She says that if it had done so, it would have seen  that she 
had a lot of debt.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary, he 
thought the checks that Satsuma had carried out before making  the loans went far enough. 
And he didnt think there was anything to suggest  to Satsuma that Mrs R would have trouble 
repaying the loans.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the adjudicators view. So the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs R could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
 the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal  that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN76863332There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mrs R. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies  about 
other credit repayments that Mrs R would need to make  over the coming  months. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mrs R had left over each 
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather  some more 
information about Mrs Rs financial situation  at that time.
I think its important to note that, generally,  the information a consumer might see, when they 
request a copy of their credit file, might  be very different  to that seen  by a lender. A lender 
might only see a small portion of the credit  file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might  not be up to date.  So, this may explain any differences  
between the information provided  by Satsumas credit check  to it and the information that 
can be seen in the credit report provided to us by Mrs R.
The credit checks that Satsuma did failed to show any information that might have 
suggested Mrs R was having problems managing her money. And they didnt show  any 
other concerning information such as a reliance  on other short  term loans, or delinquent or 
defaulted accounts. 
I can see from the information Mrs R has now provided that her finances were  under 
significant pressure  at the time. But that wasnt picked up by the credit check  information that 
Satsuma received. And it wasnt something  that Mrs R told Satsuma about at the time either.  
Satsuma was entitled to rely on the information  Mrs R provided, in the absence of anything  
to suggest that it was likely to be unreliable.  And I dont think there was any reason for 
Satsuma to doubt the information Mrs R gave it.
The repayments that Mrs R agreed  to make  on her loans were relatively modest compared 
to the monthly  income that she declared to Satsuma. And, even after allowing for her regular 
monthly expenditure and other  borrowing, Im satisfied that the repayments  would have 
appeared to be easily  affordable for Mrs R. So given  these repayment amounts, what was 
apparent about  Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, and her lack of borrowing history with 
Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for Satsuma to ask her for the amount 
of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable. So I dont think 
Satsuma was wrong to give the loans to Mrs R.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7686333