K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs G say National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Gs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need  to tell Mr and 
Mrs G about the commission it received - so NatWest doesnt need to pay back  any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think, on balance,  NatWest made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the 
PPI and they chose  to take it out. 
Because things  happened  quite some time ago, NatWest hasnt got all of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale, so there is limited documentary evidence  available. But it has 
provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer letter and a copy  of the PPI direct  
debit mandate  Mr G signed. Looking at the offer letter I can see this records  that Mr and 
Mrs G selected a monthly benefit of £200 under the policy. It also set out the monthly 
cost.
Ref: DRN74085462And while perhaps not conclusive evidence, because Mr G signed a separate direct debit 
mandate to allow the PPI premiums to be taken from Mr and Mrs Gs bank account, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs G wouldve been under the impression  that PPI was an intrinsic 
part of the mortgage offering.
So taking everything into account and being  mindful  of the limited  evidence about an 
event which  happened  many years ago, I think  its likely Mr and Mrs G chose to take out 
PPI and did so without undue pressure.
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. Mr and Mrs G say they did 
receive advice. Looking at what happened in this case, Im not persuaded NatWest  
advised Mr and Mrs G to take out PPI  Ive not seen anything which shows or implies 
that NatWest considered  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and/or expressed an opinion 
about PPI being  right for them. 
So it didnt have  to check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to 
give Mr and Mrs G enough clear and timely  information so they could decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information NatWest  gave 
Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been   albeit I think they 
understood the cost and benefit before  the policy went live. But Ive found  that they 
chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And the cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs G. 
Although Mr G subsequently told us (after the adjudicator issued their assessment of the 
complaint) that he had a medical condition sometime before the policy  was taken out, I 
dont think better information  about  the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve 
caused Mr and Mrs G to change their minds about taking out the policy.  I say this 
because the exclusion  was limited to conditions  that Mr G received advice or treatment 
for in the 12 months before the start date of the policy (and only then if they recurred 
during the first 12 months  of cover.) But Mr G says his condition  occurred around five 
years prior to the sale and hes not said or implied  that his condition caused him ongoing  
problems such that he wouldve  been caught by the exclusion. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems. 
Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. 
The policy was sufficiently  close to what they thought they were getting and I think  the policy  
could provide a useful  benefit in a difficult  time, given their circumstances at the time. And in 
those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely  than not that they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value  
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN74085463But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Gs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest  didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt  need  to do pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs G should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  NatWest failed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Gs PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has worked  this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Gs case  
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN74085464-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the commission.  So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think NatWest treated 
Mr and Mrs G unfairly. 
This means  NatWest doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs G back any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs G 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7408546