K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  didnt  give him sufficient notice when it 
terminated his conditional sale agreement.
background
In June 2015 Mr P entered into a conditional  sale agreement with Moneybarn. He fell into 
arrears in February 2016, and hed been  sent a number of default notices which led to 
Moneybarn terminating  the agreement in May 2018.
Mr P said Moneybarn cancelled the conditional  sale agreement  in May 2018 because  they 
said he was in arrears. He said he received the warning of the cancellation (and what  to do 
about it), and the cancellation notice on the same day, even though  he said they were dated  
a week apart. He said this meant theyd already cancelled the agreement before he had the 
opportunity to do anything about it.
Mr P said he brought the account  up to date in order to avoid termination. He said he made 
the required payment  immediately,  as required in the default  notice,  by direct bank transfer. 
He said he called Moneybarn soon after to let them know. He said they acknowledged the 
payment, but said it was too late because the termination notice had already been issued.
He said he had evidence  that demonstrated that Moneybarn did not follow  the correct 
procedures when he received a warning  notice and closure of account on the same  day. And 
he said this was despite him making the payment  they demanded from him on time.
He said Moneybarn couldnt find records of the calls hed made.  He said this was because  
hed been calling them  from his work phone and the outgoing number was blocked.
He said Moneybarn have  started proceedings in the County Court but agreed to postpone  
until this service had considered his complaint.
He said he wanted  Moneybarn to provide him with the settlement figure that wouldve 
applied had he cancelled  the contract. He said this would mean hed pay interest only up to 
the date at which he settled and not for the whole period  of the original  contract.
Moneybarn said theyd  terminated the agreement  in May 2018. They said theyd issued a 
default notice  to Mr P in April 2018 because the account  was arrears. They said theyd 
made multiple attempts  to contact Mr P, but these had been unsuccessful.
They said Mr P made a payment of £750  after the termination, but the account still had 
arrears of £962. They said Mr P then contacted  them to ask what options were  available to 
him. They said he chose  to enter into a consent order  to allow  him to retain possession of 
the car that was the subject of the agreement.
They also said Mr P had made several  requests  since  June 2016 to change the date of his 
monthly payment,  but theyd explained to him why this wasnt possible.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He felt that Moneybarn had told Mr P what  
action may happen  after it issued a default notice in April 2018.  He said the account wasnt 
settled by the due date in May 2018  and that was why the account was terminated.
Mr P disagreed. He said our investigator had relied  on the overall  history  of the account and 
not on the immediate issue he was unhappy with. He said Moneybarn  had not followed the 
correct procedures. He said he received  a warning notice and a closure  of account letter on 
Ref: DRN74929042the same  day, and he said hed made  the payment theyd said would  prevent  the closure of 
the account.
So the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint, for the same  reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why.
In determining a complaint,  Im required to consider all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the case.  In doing 
so, I take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and 
standards, codes  of practice and (where appropriate)  what I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time.
The rules  and guidance relevant to this type of credit agreement are set out in the FCAs  
Consumer Credit handbook, CONC. For ease of reference, Ive highlighted some  of these 
below.
CONC 7.3.4R states  that a firm must treat customers  in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. And 7.3.5G  explains that 
examples of forbearance could include deferment  of payment of arrears  or accepting 
token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to 
recover.
CONC 7.3.6G states that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a 
firm should allow the customer  reasonable time and opportunity to repay  the debt.
CONC 7.3.14R states that a firm must  not take disproportionate action against a 
customer in arrears or default.
CONC 3.3.1R states  that communications from firms  must  be clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
The conditional sale agreement  sets out Mr Ps contractual  obligations.  The agreement 
includes the following:
Missing Payments
Missing payments may have severe consequences. We may terminate this 
Agreement and we may take  legal action to take back the goods, which may include 
repossessing the goods without a court order. We may also take action to obtain a 
charging order on property owned  by you which may lead to us obtaining  a court  
order for the sale of your home. If you miss a payment your credit  rating  may also be 
affected and you may find it harder  to obtain credit  in the future.
8. Our right to end the agreement
8.1.1 you fail to pay the advance  payment (if any) or any of the payments as 
specified on the front page  of this agreement or any other sum payable under  this 
agreement
Im satisfied that Moneybarn acted  in line with the requirement to treat customers  in arrears 
fairly. Mr P started missing payments in February 2016. I can see that Moneybarn  contacted  
Ref: DRN74929043him by text and by email, advising him of the missed  payments, and invited him to contact  
them to agree payment plans.
After that Mr P made  payments by card or bank transfer. But these were irregular amounts, 
at irregular intervals,  with no payment  in some months, and the account remained in arrears.
I can see that Moneybarn  discussed affordability  with him on several  occasions.  Mr P told 
them he could afford the agreement but they still asked him to provide Income and 
Expenditure information so they could satisfy themselves the agreement  remained 
affordable  in line with the expectations in the Handbook.
They also considered Mr Ps request to change the payment date. When  he made this 
request in June  2016, they explained this was possible, but to avoid missing a payment 
(which would be reported to the credit reference  agencies) hed need to make  two payments 
in the one period. Mr P chose not to do this and stay with the original payment date he 
requested.
Moneybarn made  Mr P aware  that the vehicle may be at risk on numerous occasions  from 
February 2016. This warning was given in emails, text messages, and in formal notices  
such as the Notice  of Sums in Arrears, and the Default Notices issued to Mr P by Moneybarn 
over the period.
In December 2017 and February 2018,  Moneybarn warned Mr P that the arrears were  
building up to an unsustainable level.
In December 2017 they wrote to Mr P advising him he was £1,700 in arrears, and explained 
what he needed to do if he wanted  to keep  the car. This included making future payments on 
time and in line with the agreement.
This led to Mr P and Moneybarn agreeing  a payment plan, where he would pay £1,000  by 
bank transfer  that day, and £700 on 20 January 2018. This was on top of his normal monthly  
payments. But because he missed his next monthly  payment, Moneybarn cancelled  the 
payment plan and invited  him to contact  them to agree a new payment plan.
Similar letters and notices  were  issued in February,  March, and April 2018 as no payments 
had been made.
The messages invited Mr P to contact Moneybarn, and the message was clear:
We want  to help you stay in the vehicle, and avoid  further arrears and charges. If we 
dont hear from you soon, well need  to send  a Default Notice  which could lead to us 
ending the agreement and recovering the vehicle.
Mr P did make some payments in response  to these messages but the amounts  he paid 
were never enough to clear the arrears.
So I think it was reasonable for Moneybarn to issue the default notice on 23 April 2018. This 
notice was clear about the steps  Mr P needed to take, and the consequences of not doing 
so. It explained  the agreement  had been  breached, arrears and charges were  due, and that 
Moneybarn would terminate the agreement with immediate effect if payment wasnt  
received by 14 May 2018.
I can see that on 14 May 2018 they sent a reminder by email as Mr P had not contacted 
them.
And on 16 May 2018 they issued the termination notice. This ended the agreement and 
instructed Mr P to contact Moneybarn to arrange return  of the vehicle.
Ref: DRN74929044Mr P said that he also received another letter on the same day, that explained his arrears  
and what he needed  to do, and giving him time to pay. He says sending the termination 
notice on the same day was unfair because it didnt give him that time to pay. Ive seen the 
letter hes referring  to  its a Notice of Sums  in Arrears letter,  the same as hed received on 
previous occasions.
Even if I accept that receiving both letters on the same day may have been confusing, I dont 
consider it to be unfair or misleading  and theres no evidence that it was deliberate as Mr P 
suggests. The termination notice clearly stated  in the opening sentence: Further to the 
Default Notice served  by us in respect of the above,  you have failed to pay the amount owed 
and demanded . And the default  notice was clear about the remedy required,  and the action 
that would  follow if payment  wasnt  made.
Moneybarn told Mr P the amounts he had to pay, and he was given three  weeks  to contact 
them and/or make the payment. He failed to do so  Mr P says he called Moneybarn  on 
several occasions after he received the default notice. He said these were from his work  
number and thats why Moneybarn cant trace those calls. But Im still satisfied he had 
sufficient time to make contact, and could have used  other means given  the urgency of the 
situation.
As hed been  in breach  of the agreement since February 2016, Im satisfied  it was 
reasonable for Moneybarn to terminate the agreement. Theyd issued the appropriate  
notices as required under  the Act, theyd  considered  whether the agreement remained 
affordable to Mr P, and given him the opportunity and time to put things right, as required by 
the FCA Handbook.
And they did so in line with the terms of the agreement that Mr P entered  into. So I wont  be 
asking Moneybarn to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2021.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7492904