K820x#14complaint
Ms F says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ms F bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Fs complaint because:
 Given what we know about how FICL  sold PPI at the time, I think FICL wouldve made  
Ms F aware that she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms F so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Ms F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ms F doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. While she had some sick pay through  
her work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this. And while  shes mentioned having 
savings, shes not confirmed her salary  or how much she had in easily  accessible 
savings that werent earmarked for anything (despite being given ample time to do so). 
So, based  on the information  available to me, I dont  think  better  information  wouldve 
stopped her buying the PPI. 
Ive taken into account Ms Fs comments,  including what shes said about  commission  
levels. But these points  dont change my conclusion. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a lender  which  sold PPI got a high level of commission  and profit share  
from the PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, 
then that could create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the 
FCA said that businesses  should pay back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
But in this case the complaint is about the insurer, not the lender, so I dont think these rules  
apply to Ms Fs complaint.  
Ref: DRN71815772my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7181577