K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz) wont  meet  a claim  she made under 
her travel insurance policy in respect  of sunglasses she says were stolen from her bag while  
she was on holiday abroad.
background
In January 2018 Ms J bought a plane ticket  online from an airline  for a return journey  abroad. 
She was due to travel  out in November  2018 and return in December 2019. At the same 
time she bought  the airlines branded travel  insurance policy,  which was underwritten  by 
Allianz, for this trip.
On her return to the UK Ms J phoned Allianz to make a claim under her policy. She said that 
while on holiday she had bought sunglasses which cost her £270.70. Three days  before she 
was due to return  to the UK the sunglasses were stolen from her backpack. She had 
contacted Allianzs  office in that country to make a claim, but it said it couldnt  find her policy. 
So she wanted  to make a claim now.
Allianz didnt accept her claim. It said the policy  she had bought was for UK residents only, 
and so wouldnt have  shown up on the system of Allianzs office abroad. Allianz said that 
under the policy  terms, certain information  was required  for it to assess and process  a claim 
as follows:
Personal possessions and Personal  money
 Report the theft, damage or loss to the police within 24 hours of discovery and ask them for 
a written police  report
 If appropriate,  you should also report the theft,  damage or loss to your courier  or hotel 
/apartment manager and ask for a written  report.
 Original receipts,  vouchers or other  suitable evidence of purchase / ownership / value for 
lost, stolen or damaged personal  possessions.
As Ms J couldnt provide  any police or other report about the theft, Allianz declined her claim.  
It said if Ms J had called  it on the telephone number provided in her policy documents  it 
would have been able to advise her to report the incident to the police.
Ms J said she never received the policy document. When she bought the ticket and the 
policy she received  an email from the airline  saying confirmation of her insurance  would  be 
sent in a separate email.  But she never received this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said the policy  
conditions clearly highlighted  that the theft had to be reported to the police within  24 hours. 
Ms J now said the theft might have occurred the day before her return  journey. But 
irrespective of this, the policy requirement was clear. The investigator  didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Allianz to require this, and Ms J hadnt complied with it.
The investigator said that as Ms J had been  staying  with her son, the requirement  to report 
the theft to a courier or hotel/apartment manager  wasnt appropriate in this case. Ms J had 
provided her credit  card statement which was sufficient to show  proof of purchase. But this 
didnt establish  the sunglasses had been  stolen.
Ref: DRN79051722Ms J was adamant  that she hadnt received the policy  wording by email. But as Ms J booked 
her ticket and the insurance in January 2018,  and she wasnt  travelling until November  2018,  
the investigator thought she had ample  opportunity  to query  the absence  of the insurance 
policy. The investigator  thought it reasonable that Ms J should  have raised  this with the 
airline, given the importance of the policy  to her.
Ms J responded to say, in summary, that:
as she didnt have  the policy wording, she didnt expect to have to notify anyone 
abroad, but thought  she could deal with it with Allianz on her return to the UK; and
she had tried to contact Allianz  when she was abroad, but its local office couldnt 
trace her policy and didnt tell her about the policy conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A travel insurance policy is an important  document. It provides cover  for a number of matters  
very relevant to the policy  holder while they are abroad. As well as personal possessions, it 
provides cover for emergency medical  expenses, cancellation or curtailment of travel  
arrangements, and personal  accidents, amongst other matters.
All policies  have restrictions on the cover  provided,  and procedures  which  have to be 
followed to be entitled to claim. So we expect policy holders to have  checked  their policy 
before travelling to ensure it meets their requirements and they are aware of any relevant 
restrictions.
Because of this, we require insurers to send  policy  holders a copy of the policy  or make clear 
to them  how they can access it. Allianz says a copy of the policy would have been sent by 
email to Ms J shortly  after she purchased it.
Ms J says that although she received  an email  promising this, she never received a copy of 
the policy. Because of the time between booking and travelling, she says she may have just 
assumed she had received the policy and didnt need to check.
However because  of the importance of the matters covered by the policy, I think the onus 
was on Ms J to obtain a copy of the policy if she hadnt received this, and to check  she 
understood its provisions  and what was covered.
The requirement to obtain a police  report for a theft claim isnt unusual in a travel policy,  and 
was set out clearly  in Ms Js policy. So I think Allianz  was entitled to decline Ms Js claim 
because she hadnt fulfilled this requirement.
Ms J says that when  she phoned Allianzs local office, it should have pointed  out this 
requirement to her. However it couldnt establish  from its system  that Ms J was an Allianz 
customer. And it may not have known whether the terms of Allianzs local policies  were  the 
same as its UK policies.  So I cant say Allianzs local office should reasonably have done 
anything more.
All in all, I dont think Allianz has treated Ms J unfairly, and I dont think  it would be 
reasonable for me to require it to meet her claim.
Ref: DRN79051723my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this compliant,  and make  no order  against Allianz Global  
Assistance.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7905172