K821x#15Complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
for his mortgage.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 20 August 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was most likely this policy had been mis-sold. I said Id consider anything else anyone 
wanted to send me  so long as I received  it by 3 September 2019. But neither Barclays 
nor Mr B sent me anything new to consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that if Barclays had made it clear the 
PPI wasnt right for Mr B, or if Barclays had given  him clear enough information about it, then 
its most  likely he would not have bought the policy.
What Barclays needs to do
Barclays should put Mr B in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and Barclays should:
Pay Mr B back the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. Mr B can claim 
back the tax if he doesnt  pay tax.
Ref: DRN73487762My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint about  Barclays Bank UK Plc. Barclays Bank UK Plc should put things  right in the 
way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN73487763COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy for his 
mortgage.
Background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out with a mortgage in late 1999.  It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium,  which didnt  attract  interest.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr Bs PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain  why.
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mr B, so it had to check it was right for him. It also had to give 
him information about the PPI that was clear,  fair, and not misleading. But I dont think  the policy  was 
right for Mr B, and I dont think Barclays gave him clear enough information about it.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any pre-existing medical condition  the customer  knew about  
or had advice, treatment, or counselling for in the 12 months before the policy started.  And Mr B had 
such a medical  condition which  wouldnt have been covered.
From what Mr Bs told us, it was diagnosed  in 1999, just months before this sale. He had to take 
prescription medication  for it. While he kept the condition  more or less under control, he did have 
flare-ups. Importantly, he had to take about six weeks  off work for his condition in 1999  just before 
the sale.
I think  this wouldve mattered to Mr B. By the time of the sale,  hed very recently had a significant time 
off work.  An amount of time off which normally wouldve  caused him to claim.  And while  he more or 
less managed  his condition, it was ongoing and there was every chance hed have to take time off 
again. Indeed, at the time it wouldve seemed  the most likely  thing to cause him to be off work. But 
this policy excluded any claims  for time off work for his condition, or any claims  that otherwise resulted  
from his condition. So Mr B couldnt have  claimed on the PPI for everything he mightve reasonably  
expected to be able to.
I havent seen any evidence showing that Barclays asked Mr B about his medical situation, or that it 
took sufficient  account of it in the advice. And I cant see that Barclays gave Mr B clear  information  
about the policys key exclusions at the time of the sale. For instance,  they dont seem to be 
mentioned in the application, the record of the advice, or the illustration.
Barclays says it wouldve  given Mr B the policy terms after the sale and that he couldve then 
cancelled it. But thats not good enough   he needed  to be given clear information at the sale, before  
taking out the PPI. The onus  was on Barclays to sell PPI fairly in the first place, rather than waiting for 
Mr B to notice  the flaws in the sale and cancel  the policy  after the fact. And in any case, this exclusion 
wasnt prominent  or highlighted as being  important  in the policy document.
Ref: DRN73487764I dont think Mr B wouldve  bought  the policy  if Barclays had made clear it wasnt right for him or given 
him clear enough information about the exclusions. So I think its most likely  that Mr B has lost out 
because of what  Barclays  got wrong here. 
What I think  Barclays should do
I think  Barclays should  put Mr B in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and Barclays should:
Pay Mr B back the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
is 8% simple a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what  he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr B can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr Bs complaint, and to direct Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
to put things  right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Barclays  and Mr B send  me any more  information or comments  to look at by 
3 September 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider  the case.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7348776