K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about a credit card account with American Express Services  Europe Limited 
that he says was opened fraudulently, and an associated entry on his credit file that he says 
is inaccurate. 
background
Mr H complained to American  Express about a credit card account that was opened in his 
name in 2005.  He told it he didnt accept the credit agreement was genuine or enforceable. 
He also disputed the terms and conditions were  an accurate reflection of the terms and 
conditions American  Express  were offering in 2005,  and argued it was time barred from 
taking legal action  against him for recovery of the debt. 
He also said American  Express  had reported false information about him to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs). He said the account was displayed as a live running credit 
account even  though  the account was closed and that he would hold American Express  
responsible for any loss or prejudice he might suffer as a result  of the false  information.
American Express produced a letter  that had been  sent to it regarding a change of address. 
And it said it its decision to report the account to the CRAs was correct.
Mr H wasnt happy with American Express response and so he complained to this service.  
American Express explained the account was closed, but it was still live because it was in 
arrears. It supplied  the initial credit agreement  which  showed  there  had been an additional 
card holder,  and the letter it had sent to Mr H confirming the change of address. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld, noting the details on the credit 
agreement matched Mr Hs details and that there  had been repayments  made  on the 
account. He thought it was reasonable that American Express  thought  the account was in 
Mr Hs name. He was also satisfied that as the account was in arrears,  it had done nothing 
wrong in communicating this to the CRAs. 
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman  and so its been passed 
to me for a decision.  He said the credit agreement  contained  addresses and telephone 
numbers that hed never used, the signature wasnt his and the terms and conditions  werent 
in operation at the relevant time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Mr H has suggested a credit card account was fraudulently taken out in his name,  but Im not 
persuaded that it was. The account was opened in Mr Hs name in 2005, with a named 
additional cardholder.  Payments were made on the account until 2012, and the account was 
defaulted due to non-payment and reported to the CRAs in 2013. 
Significantly, payments  were made  on the account until 2012.  I accept  these payments could 
have been made by the additional cardholder,  but theres a letter from Mr H dated in 2006 
telling American Express  about a change  of address and confirming hed made a payment 
on the account having missed a payment because hed changed current accounts. American 
Ref: DRN74403552Express responded with a letter  confirming  the address details  and I consider Mr H is likely 
to have received  that letter and would therefore  have  been alerted to the fact there was a 
credit card account in his name. If the account  had been opened fraudulently, I would have 
expected him to alert American Express in 2006,  yet theres  no evidence that he contacted  
American Express to raise concerns until the account was defaulted in 2013.
Theres also a letter from Mr H to American  Express dated in 2013. In that letter, Mr H 
denies the account is his. He states  the transactions were unauthorised and fraudulent and 
offers to pay £400  in full and final settlement of the debt. While I accept this is evidence  that 
Mr H disputed being the account  holder in 2013, I question why he would have offered £400 
if he had no liability and I dont consider  hes put forward any evidence in this letter  to 
support his argument that the account  was opened  fraudulently. 
American Express has supplied a signed credit  agreement  which  Mr H says contains 
information that doesnt relate to him. But he hasnt specified what  that information is. Hes 
also said the signature isnt his, but as Im persuaded  he opened the account, Im satisfied 
that it was his signature. 
Mr H believes  the information  displayed on his credit file is inaccurate because it shows  the 
credit card account as live, and hes concerned this will affect  future applications for credit. 
But Im satisfied there is a balance  outstanding  on the card, meaning American Express  was 
entitled to report  a default on Mr Hs credit  file. Its explained the account will only reflect  as 
settled and closed  once it has a zero balance  and Im satisfied thats  fair and in line with 
standard industry practice.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont consider Mr H has shown the account was 
fraudulently taken out in his name or that American  Express has treated him unfairly  or 
unreasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7440355