K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains Assurant General Insurance Limited didnt carry out a proper repair  on her 
Apple iPhone 6 in 2016 which has now resulted in a loss in value. 
background
Mrs R has her mobile phone insurance as part of a package of benefits  with her banking  
account. In October  2016 she needed to have the screen repaired which  Assurant carried 
out. The initial repair wasnt quite right, which was rectified by Assurant in November  2016.  
For her trouble Assurant  refunded the £50 excess which was payable. 
In 2018 Mrs R needed to have the battery  replaced. And since  then the screen  has started 
lifting away. Mrs R took her phone to Apple who informed her the screen is a third party 
screen and hasnt been replaced in the same manner it would, as there  are missing screw 
posts and a glue residue. It also warned her the screen replacement  may result in future  
breakage. 
Mrs R complained to Assurant who was satisfied the repair carried out in 2016 was 
satisfactory. It said it provided  a six month warranty on the repair and Mrs R had contacted it 
outside of that but she can submit a new claim for her phone which will result in an excess  
being payable.  
Not happy with that Mrs R asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator  concluded 
Assurants repair had been carried out in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. She found although  Assurant  had used a different  method of repair  to Apple there  
was no evidence the repair was substandard. Mrs R asked  for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint. In summary, shes said the repair was to be of a similar specification and the 
repair needed to last a reasonable time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Mrs Rs policy does provide cover for accidental damage and breakdown. The terms at the 
time said:
Repairs may be made using readily  available parts, or we may provide  refurbished 
products which  may contain parts, which are of similar or equivalent specification, 
and which  may include  unbranded parts. 
These are the policy terms  Mrs R accepted when agreeing to have the policy. It was open to 
her to seek alternative cover, or cover her phone  through Apple Care, if she wanted a 
different type of cover.
Under the Assurant  policy, Mrs R was entitled to what was set out in the terms and 
conditions  which included unbranded  parts. I accept the screen was a third party  screen 
and that the repair was a different kind of repair than what Apple  would  have carried  out. But 
that of itself isnt evidence  the screen  wasnt of a similar specification to that which was 
replaced or that the repair was substandard.  
Ref: DRN78569992Im also aware the screen had been  in place for about two years when Mrs R needed  to 
replace the battery. I find it likely  that if the repair had been  substandard   for the repair      
she was entitled  to under the policy  that it would have manifested itself far sooner. And as 
the screen had been in place for two years, I consider the repair  has lasted a reasonable 
length of time.  
I appreciate Mrs R believes  the value of her phone has decreased because  the repair wasnt  
done in the same way Apple would. But, as I havent found Assurant did anything wrong, I 
wont be making any award against it.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7856999