K821x#15complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the amount of compensation Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
(Santander) has offered him in respect  of a claim he raised about items  in his caravan 
damaged from water  ingress.  Mr N doesnt  think the amount of compensation offered by 
Santander is a true reflection of what hes lost. 
background
Mr N entered into a conditional sale agreement  with Santander to obtain a caravan. Mr N 
subsequently raised a complaint with Santander  about the caravan.  He didnt think the 
caravan had been of satisfactory  quality  when hed purchased it and there had been 
significant water damage to the contents of the caravan.  As Santander  disagreed with Mr N, 
this complaint was passed to our service  for consideration.
Since our involvement in the matter,  Mr N and Santander have now settled the main 
complaint about  the caravan. However the issue of consequential loss remains in dispute. 
So this is the only aspect I will be addressing in this decision. 
The investigator has already explained that he feels Santander should pay a total sum of 
£3,340.51. This figure is made up of £2,664.18  which was originally the contents  claim, and 
then £676.33   for a number of items Mr N made  a further claim for. Santander  was of the 
view that theyd only agree to pay a 50% contribution towards the original amount claimed 
(so £1,332.09) due to insufficient  evidence being  provided by Mr N to show  his belongings 
had been damaged. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive looked at all the evidence 
which has been submitted, this decision  will focus  on what  I think are the key issues in 
dispute.
Its not in dispute  that Mr Ns caravan  had considerable  water damage and I think  its 
reasonable and likely that this wouldve caused  mould damage to items within  the caravan. 
But I appreciate  Santander dont feel Mr N has fully evidenced some of the loses  which  hes 
trying to claim for. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence Mr N has provided to our service. This includes 
receipts for items which he says have been  damaged. Hes also provided us with photos of 
items which he claims have been  damaged by mould. 
Its important to stress that the items Mr N is claiming for (such as bedding, towels, chairs, 
bath mats, a BBQ, etc) are all objects which I think would be perfectly  reasonable for him to 
have had in the caravan. I also think its entirely  reasonable and understandable  for Mr N to 
not have receipts  for smaller items  within the caravan. 
I appreciate that Santander has concerns about the amount of evidence  Mr N has been able 
to provide. But in claims of this nature, I think that it might not always be possible for a 
consumer to fully evidence every single item being  claimed. However Ive given  careful 
consideration to the evidence which Mr N has been  able to helpfully send us. And Ive 
thought about his detailed  testimony  surrounding this whole  matter.  I further note Mr N feels 
Ref: DRN73029762hes not in fact claimed for everything he could have and thinks hes been  fairly conservative 
in his claim. 
My role is to decide what a fair and reasonable outcome should be. And overall I too, just 
like the investigator,  think its fair for Santander to pay Mr N a sum of £3,340.51.  I think this 
is a reasonable  amount given these  circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should pay Mr N £3,340.51.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7302976