K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) with a mortgage.
background
In 2005 Mr L visited  a BoS branch  and applied for a mortgage. At the same  time he also took 
out PPI designed to protect is mortgage payments  in the event he couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Part of Mr Ls overall protection  package included life 
and critical illness cover. But Mr L hasnt complained about these, so Ill only address the 
PPI elements of cover  as above - the policy.
The policy provided  a monthly benefit  of over £700  a month and it cost around £40 a month. 
In the event of a successful claim,  it could  pay out for up to 12 months for both the 
accident/sickness and unemployment elements of cover.
The policy was cancelled in 2006  and the mortgage  account ended in 2008.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought it likely BoS gave Mr L a 
choice about taking out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was mis-sold.
Mr L disagrees. In response to the adjudicators assessment, in summary he said:
the adjudicator  had failed to take into account the conversation  with the adviser at the 
time who told him that if he didnt take out the cover he might not get approved for the 
mortgage. 
when he applied for his second  mortgage in 2008 he was told by BoS to take out the 
cover to help with the application and then cancel it a month  later, which  he says he did.
BoS mis-selling was rife around this time and wants an ombudsman to review  his 
complaint. 
It is therefore necessary  for me to decide  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr Ls case. 
Firstly it doesnt appear  to be in dispute  that because Mr L took out PPI during a branch 
meeting, BoS recommended  the policy to him. This means BoS had to ensure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr L based on his needs and circumstances at the time. And it had to give him 
enough clear information  about  the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to go ahead with 
the recommendation or not. Ive kept this is in mind when deciding this complaint.
was Mr L given a choice to buy PPI and did he agree to take it out?
Mr L says he was told during the meeting with BoS that he had to have PPI to improve his 
chances of getting his mortgage approved. Because this is an important area and one where 
we sometimes see problems, Ive considered  this carefully.
Ref: DRN70149872BoS hasnt been able to provide  copies of the actual mortgage and PPI paperwork 
completed during  Mr Ls meeting. And its not surprising to me that the original paperwork is 
no longer available. Mr L applied for his mortgage  quite some time ago - its around  10 years 
since this mortgage  account closed and over 10 years since the PPI was cancelled.  
Businesses dont have to keep  records  indefinitely.
So what  information  do I have to consider?  
On the one hand I have  what Mr L says happened   he was told he should take out PPI. And 
on the other hand BoS has provided  us with sample or example copies of the paperwork it 
says was in use when it sold this type of policy in-branch. And looking at this, it required the 
customer to indicate  on the paperwork that they wanted PPI. The cost of the policy  was set 
out separately from the mortgage cost too.
So overall, while I hear what Mr L says, weighing up what  limited information I do have  and 
being mindful of how long ago things happened  Ive not seen enough to support what Mr L  
says and that something different happened  from what BoS paperwork shows. So I dont 
think Mr L was more  likely than not told or given the impression that he had to have PPI to 
be granted the mortgage. On balance,  I think he chose  to take it out  albeit cover that was 
recommend to him - knowing he didnt have to. 
was Mr L properly advised and informed and was PPI suitable for him?
If not - has Mr L lost out?
Because of the limited available evidence,  I dont know whether Mr L was properly  advised  
and asked all the necessary questions the adviser  reasonably needed to ask to recommend 
the policy as being suitable for him. And I dont know whether Mr L was given clear and 
timely information about the recommended cover.
But even if I was to find that BoS did not do everything it should have and so conclude that it 
didnt act fairly and reasonably towards  Mr L in its dealings with him, given his circumstances 
at the time I think the policy was ultimately suitable  for him. And I think  it likely hed have still 
accepted the recommendation  and gone  ahead with the cover if BoS had done more.  I say 
this because:
Mrs L was eligible  he qualified   for the cover.
he wasnt affected by and so wouldnt have been put off by any of the significant 
limitations or exclusions of cover   for example  he didnt have any health problems at 
the time and his employment circumstances werent unusual.
while I dont know whether the cost of the policy was clearly disclosed  to Mr L before 
he agreed to take it out, I find it unlikely he agreed to take it out without  knowing 
something about the cost. Mr L didnt for example query it or cancel the policy when 
the cost appeared on his bank statements, so it must  have been  agreeable to him. In 
any event it appears  to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make  the policy 
unsuitable. 
Mr L says he had at least six months  full sick pay and three months other  means at 
his disposal. But I still think  Mr L had a need for cover. He was taking out a mortgage 
for which he was solely responsible and which was secured  on his home. I think he 
would have wanted to protect that given  his circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN70149873And while he did have  the means  to support himself for a period of time,  the policy 
would have paid out alongside any sick pay (and for longer if necessary) helping  him 
to manage the consequences  it would likely be a difficult and unsettling  time - if he 
found himself unable to work. 
Because the policy was a monthly regular premium policy, it could have been 
cancelled at any time without penalty,  so providing flexibility if things changed  or Mr L 
simply decided he no longer wanted cover.
So in light of Mr Ls circumstances  at the time, I think the policy was suitable for him - it 
wasnt wrong for BoS to have recommended it.
I understand Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. But in conclusion and after careful 
consideration of all the evidence presented including what Mr L has said about his 
complaint, I find that Mr L hasnt lost out as a result of having PPI with his mortgage. This is 
because despite  any failings by BoS at the time, I think Mr Ls decision to take out PPI would 
not have been any different had BoS done  anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7014987