K822xComplaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly blocked his current  account which meant a 
house purchase couldnt go through  as planned. Mr R says he had to cash in an investment 
and incurred various costs as a result of TSBs delay in releasing his money. 
Background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 15 May 2020,  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I thought Mr Rs complaint should  be 
upheld and how I intended to tell TSB to resolve  it. 
I invited both parties to respond with any additional  comments or information  the wanted  me 
to consider before I made my final decision. 
TSB responded to say it accepted my provisional  decision. Mr R didnt respond.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As TSB responded  to say it accepted my provisional  decision and Mr R didnt respond or 
send in anything  new for me to consider I see no reason to change  the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld, for the 
same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr R: 
-£440.41 additional legal costs
-£348 loss of income
-£30 hotel cost
-5.1% on £70,000 to cover the period 12 October  2018 to 9 November 2018
-£300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr R
-Minus any compensation TSB has already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN71238062Copy of Provisional Decision dated 15 May 2020
Complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc incorrectly blocked his current  account which meant a 
house purchase couldnt go through  as planned. Mr R says he had to cash in an investment 
and incurred various costs as a result of TSBs delay in releasing his money. 
Background
On 2 October 2018 Mr R tried to transfer  £124,963  to his solicitor in relation to a property 
purchase. The payments were blocked  by TSB and it wasnt  until 9 November  2018  that 
Mr R could fully use his account again,  and complete the transfers. By that time, the 
completion date for Mr Rs purchase had passed.  
Mr R has explained that he was able to complete the property purchase by cashing in 
investments he held and borrowing funds from family.  Mr R has asked to be compensated 
for the additional  legal  fees he had to pay, loss of income, interest he paid to his family and 
income he would have received on his investments. 
Mr R referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator upheld  Mr Rs case and asked TSB to pay him £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay, £440.41  for additional legal work, £348  for lost income 
and £30 for hotel  costs.  TSB accepted but Mr R didnt as he wanted TSB to compensate him 
for his lost investment income  as well. Mr R asked  to appeal  so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
Shortly after the case was passed to me I asked our investigator to contact Mr R and request 
more evidence of his losses. I wanted  to see evidence  of the interest  Mr R says he paid his 
family for the loan provided, evidence of what Mr R did with his funds once TSB removed the 
block on his account  on 9 November 2018,  evidence of the investment income Mr R would 
have received if his funds  hadnt been withdrawn  and evidence to show the original  basis for 
Mr Rs investments. 
In response, Mr R sent us a letter from his investment provider that shows  he would  have 
received an income  of 5.1%. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive been reasonably brief above in setting out the background  of this complaint as I think all 
parties broadly  agree  concerning the key events and overall timeline. I can see that Mr Rs 
transfers were held from 2 October 2018  and that TSB didnt remove  the account blocks until 
9 November 2018. I agree with the investigator that the situation  took too long to resolve and 
that Mr Rs complaint should  be upheld. Its clear the delay caused considerable 
inconvenience to Mr R. TSB accepted the settlement proposed by the investigator but Mr R 
didnt. My role now is to decide how to fairly  resolve this case. 
Ref: DRN71238063TSB has agreed to cover the costs  Mr R incurred  by having to miss work, the additional legal 
costs he had to pay and the price  of his stay at a hotel. Mr R appears to have  accepted this 
part of the settlement. But hes concerned that he lost out financially due to cashing in an 
investment of £70,000. I agree Mr R has lost out due to having to sacrifice  his investment to 
complete the property  purchase. Thats why I asked our investigator  to contact Mr R and ask 
for additional details.  
Mr R said he had to pay interest on a loan made to him by a family member. I asked for 
evidence that Mr R had paid interest  but none  has been provided. I cant  award  costs  that I 
cant show a consumer  incurred so, without evidence of the interest Mr R paid his family, I 
cant award that to him.
I also asked for information about what Mr R did with his money  once TSB removed the 
account blocks. I wanted to see whether Mr R had reinvested it and on what terms. But 
nothing has been  provided to show whether Mr R returned the funds to the original 
investment or not. As I dont know what Mr R did with his money after the account blocks 
were removed I cant assess his loss. As a result, Im going to restrict the period of missed 
investment income  to 12 October 2018  (when  Mr R encashed the investment) to 9 
November 2018  (when TSB removed the account blocks)  28 days.
Mr R recently  sent us evidence that the interest his investment  would have received during 
the period in question was 5.1%. I can see that Mr R earned no income  on his funds while 
his account was blocked. So I think the fairest approach is for TSB to pay Mr R interest in 
line with what he would  have received  if he hadnt  had to cash  in his investment  5.1%.  
The investigator also asked TSB to pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused by the delay  in removing the account  block. Im satisfied £300 fairly reflects the 
impact of TSBs  errors so I intend  to endorse  that figure. 
As Ive explained above, based on all the available  information I intend to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct  TSB Bank  plc to 
pay Mr R: 
-£440.41 additional legal costs
-£348 loss of income
-£30 hotel cost
-5.1% on £70,000 to cover the period 12 October  2018 to 9 November 2018
-£300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr R
-Minus any compensation TSB has already paid. 
Mr R and TSB have until 15 June 2020 to send me any additional information  or comments  
they would  like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7123806