K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  dealt with a claim under a 
landlord buildings insurance policy, particularly the settlement and delays.
Background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in a provisional decision 
(attached to this final decision) earlier this month. I explained to the parties that there were 
two main issues in the case for me to determine; 
whether UKI unreasonably delayed dealing  with and settling Mrs Hs claim; and 
the settlement  itself in so far as UKIs refusal  to pay anything  for the damaged  
building.
And in my provisional  decision I stated in looking at the context  of the circumstances  at the 
time of the claim, I didnt  think reasonableness required  UKI to give Mrs H details about what  
the consequences might  be if she decided to sell. UKIs primary responsibility was dealing  
with the claim and all the challenges posed by its circumstances. 
And indeed,  I thought  it would have been reasonable for Mrs H to have brought  the sale 
issue up at a later stage when she had eventually  decided that she did in fact want  to sell the 
property. She had instructed a solicitor and decided to sell to a family member. And unless 
Mrs H gave UKI a more coherent matter  of fact statement that she had decided  to sell, I 
wasnt persuaded UKI should have foreseen she would sell the property  without at least 
notifying UKI she had a potential buyer  and was going to instruct solicitors. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision. While  we sent the decision to Mrs H on 7 November 
(by post) and again  on 18 November (by email) asking if she had any comments, I havent 
seen any reply from Mrs H. The deadline  was 21 November 2019.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at everything again I am satisfied that my provisional decision and the 
reasons explained give a determination that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
And as such,  Im not persuaded  to reach  a different outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against  U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77449552copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mrs H complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim under  a landlord  
buildings insurance policy, particularly the settlement  and delays.
Background
Mrs H bought  a property  in March 2016 which required modernising. Shed bought the property to rent 
out and took out landlord insurance and offered the property to the rental  market. Only cosmetic work 
was carried out before rental and indeed tenants were agreed quite soon  after Mrs H had purchased 
the property.  
Around 10 February 2017  Mrs H heard from police that her property was being used for illegal 
purposes. And in March  2017 Mrs H made a claim  for damage to the property.  By late April 2017 
UKIs loss adjuster had recommended declining the claim on the basis that the policy didnt cover 
malicious damage. But UKI advised that Mrs H had additional cover for that type of damage.  And a 
surveyor appointed by UKI had reported reinstatement costs to be around £60,000.
It was also noted at this time that the property was in an average  to poor condition  and would benefit 
from reinstatement. And it is noted in UKIs file that the potential  loss in value of the property as a 
result of the damage caused would  be less than the cost of reinstatement.  The main damage had 
been the removal of an internal supporting wall, which  compromised the buildings structure.
Mrs H explained that she just wanted to get rid of the property and would  accept a settlement  in cash. 
By early May 2017 UKIs loss adjuster  had explained that in relation  to a cash sum it would be the 
reduction in value of the property as opposed to the reinstatement  cost (circa £60,000), which was 
significantly greater.
The police investigated Mrs H in relation  to the illegal activity,  but no charges  were  laid against her. 
There were  however other related proceedings  against  Mrs H. She sold her property to a family 
member in January 2018 for the same price as she had purchased it nearly  two years earlier.  The 
damage had not been repaired save for some plaster board work, and she hadnt told UKI that she 
was in the process  of selling. Its apparent that solicitors were instructed  for the sale at the start of 
January 2018 with completion near to the end of January. 
The house was sold on again in September 2018 for £340,000 but further repairs hadnt apparently 
been done according to the loss adjuster who had carried out further interviews. Mrs H says work was 
carried out by her son so UKI asked for documents relating to this (e.g. invoices  for materials) but 
nothing has been provided.
In December 2018 UKI paid Mrs H loss of rent but nothing in relation to the alleged damage to the 
property. Mrs H is unhappy  at not being paid anything in relation to the damage and more generally at 
the delay in dealing with the claim. She has said that either  she should  get the estimated repair cost 
or the difference between the market value with repairs done at the time she sold it with what she 
received. 
UKI said that Mrs H hadnt  suffered a financial loss when  selling the house as shed sold it for the 
same price shed bought  it for. And UKI didnt  accept responsibility for any delays explaining they 
arose because of the police involvement  and the delay in issuing its report (several  months after Mrs 
H had sold the property). UKIs agent sent emails to police and called to obtain an update  about the 
investigation. And at one stage  registered a complaint  about  the delay  in providing information. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and explained that she didnt think  UKI should  pay 
anything in relation to the damaged property.  She said Mrs H had sold the property and hadnt 
suffered a financial loss in doing so, or at least that it wasnt possible to say how much the lack of 
Ref: DRN77449553repairs had impacted  the price. She noted Mrs H hadnt provided any information to support  costs she 
had paid to repair damage. The investigator did think Mrs H had lost out on the opportunity to put 
things right on the basis that UKI had failed  to explain  what might happen  in the event she sold the 
property before the claim had been  dealt  with. And she recommended UKI pay Mrs H £300 
compensation.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator as she felt she had lost out thousands of pounds because of 
poor advice  from UKI. UKI disagreed that it should have to pay compensation. This was because Mrs 
H had taken the decision  to sell her home, and in fact did, while UKI was considering the claim and 
waiting for information from the police.  UKI says had Mrs H informed it that she was in the process  of 
selling the property  it would  have given  a greater  opportunity  to discuss  the impact of this.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I also need to take into account  
relevant law and regulations,  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The issues
There are two main issues  in this case for me to determine; whether  UKI unreasonably delayed 
dealing with and settling Mrs Hs claim;  and the settlement itself in so far as UKIs refusal to pay 
anything for the damaged building.
The timeline  for settlement  ran from March  2017 when the claim was first made through  to December 
2018 when UKI paid Mrs H for loss of rent. And in considering this I bear in mind UKIs obligation to 
handle claims promptly and fairly, provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder  make a claim  
and appropriate information on its progress, and settle claims promptly once settlement terms are 
agreed.
Whats prompt will depend  on the circumstances of the claim. In Mrs Hs case there was a significant 
police investigation concerning the activity at the property  she rented out. She was questioned by 
police in relation to the matter and it wasnt apparent that police had stopped investigating  her in 
respect of the activity until around August  2017. Thereafter, UKIs agents asked for a police report to 
facilitate its enquiries  into the validity  of the claim. As there was an ongoing police investigation a 
report wasnt provided  and indeed this went on for some time. UKIs agent  telephoned and sent 
emails chasing progress on the investigation  and the availability of a report. And indeed, even 
registered a complaint with police about the lack of contact or progress towards UKI receiving a 
report. 
Once a report was sent UKI was then able to review the claim considering all the relevant information 
and this led to further enquiries with Mrs H. While the start to finish period was over 18 months, I am 
satisfied that this was unavoidable given the police  investigation and the lack of information  that could 
be shared with UKI. So, I dont hold UKI responsible  for avoidable  and unfair  delay, and Im satisfied 
UKI handled the claim promptly  and fairly  in the circumstances.
Mrs H thinks  UKI should  have given  better  advice  about the consequences on the claim of her selling  
the property.  I think this aligns with UKIs duty to provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder 
make a claim. Whats reasonable guidance will depend on the circumstances, but it is to be seen in 
the context  of helping Mrs H making her claim. So, I dont think that means  it is all encompassing 
advice but guidance  so that Mrs H can make her claim. That could  involve, for example,  taking 
photographs or taking certain  actions  such as seeking a report depending on the claim  itself. And the 
guidance to be given should be reasonable.
Ref: DRN77449554Courts have tended to look at whats  reasonable  through the lens of a broad,  common sense 
meaning in this context  as in others.1 Here, I think guidance and whether it was reasonable should be 
considered in the context  of an ordinary  degree of care,  prudence and foresight that a reasonable  
insurer should  provide in the circumstances  of Mrs Hs claim. 
Mrs H indicated  early on that she may sell the property because she just wanted rid of it. And that was 
an understandable reaction in the circumstances she faced. But I dont  think  reasonableness required 
UKI to give Mrs H details at that point  about  what the consequences might  be if she decided  to sell. 
UKIs primary  responsibility was dealing with the claim  and all the challenges posed by its particular  
circumstances. 
And indeed,  I think it would have been reasonable for Mrs H to have brought  this issue up at a later 
stage when she had eventually decided that she did in fact want to sell the property. She had 
instructed a solicitor and decided to sell to a family member. And unless Mrs H gave UKI a more 
coherent matter of fact statement that she had decided to sell, rather  than a general comment that 
she was inclined to sell, I dont think reasonable guidance in this context included  the full potential  
consequences of selling her property before  terms of the claim settlement had been agreed. Mrs H 
understood a settlement hadnt been reached and indeed  that there were  ongoing related court  
proceedings she was involved in. Im not persuaded UKI should have foreseen  that Mrs H would  sell 
the property  without  at least notifying it that she intended to sell, had a potential buyer and was going  
to instruct solicitors. 
The policy
Under the policy, like every other buildings and landlord  policy Ive seen, the method of settlement 
described was that UKI would pay Mrs H the value of the insured property, or the amount of the 
damage or, at UKIs own option, reinstate or replace such property. Ultimately  UKI has absolute  
discretion about how it would settle the claim. UKIs decision on the claim itself happened some 
months after Mrs H had sold the property. Mrs H said that some damage was repaired but despite 
UKI asking for proof of the cost of this, and it being incurred before the date of sale,  she hasnt 
provided anything. UKI has said it would  consider such costs and Im satisfied thats fair.
It did look at one stage that UKI was considering settlement by paying  the loss of value as opposed to 
the reinstatement costs.  UKI couldnt have its own contractors repair  the property  as it had been sold. 
Indeed, had UKI been able to carry out the repair it would have benefitted from supplier  discounts so 
simply paying Mrs H a first estimate  of the damage wouldnt in my view be a fair outcome against UKI. 
And so, paying the loss in value of the property as a result of insured  damage was a reasonable  
consideration. 
Mrs H and UKI had very different views  on what this loss might be. Mrs H has said repairs  were 
carried out but has not substantiated this in any way. Given  the main damage was a structural wall 
being demolished I think its a reasonable expectation that she would have something to show the 
cost of repair  and any relevant building control approval. But Mrs H hasnt provided any information. 
UKI took the view that Mrs H sold the house to her family  member  in an unrepaired state and I think  
thats reasonable  in the absence of proof to the contrary.  Ive considered  the estimated cost of repair 
together with the house being in a structurally compromised state, and it being purchased for 
£320,000 less than two years before selling  it on at the same  price. The condition  of any house is 
likely to be a factor in the sale price. And it can be strongly argued that Mrs Hs property appreciated  
in value given its substantially poorer  condition  than when  purchased, yet still achieving the same 
price less than two years  earlier. So, taking  that all into account Im not persuaded  Mrs H has shown 
she suffered  any loss in value.
Loss of opportunity to put things right
I disagree with the investigator on this aspect of Mrs Hs case. In short, the investigator thought  Mrs H 
had lost the opportunity on the basis that UKI could have done more to inform  Mrs H about what  she 
1 Arthur Frazer Limited v Gloucester City Council  [2001]  UKHL para 5 (Lord Bingham of Cornhill)
Ref: DRN77449555could do with the property.  This is in the context, according to the investigator,  of 11 months passing 
from police informing her of the activity at her property, and a variety  of complications with the police 
report adding to the length of time taken for UKI to decide  whether  it could  accept  the claim. 
I have provisionally determined that UKI handled the claim promptly and fairly in all the 
circumstances. And Im provisionally satisfied that reasonable  guidance in the circumstances did not 
include UKI having to tell Mrs H the full potential consequences of selling her property before terms of 
the claim settlement had been agreed, or unless she had specifically told UKI she had made the 
decision to sell and had a potential buyer.
Im not provisionally inclined to find any wrongdoing on UKIs part and because of that, Im not 
persuaded UKI is responsible for Mrs H losing  an opportunity to repair  her home before sale, or for 
the sale itself.
My provisional decision
Im not currently minded  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  against U K Insurance Limited.
Ref: DRN7744955