K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint against Metro Bank PLC (Metro) is that its recorded  a fraud prevention  
marker (CIFAS) against his name,  and he cant open  a new account.
background
In 2016, Mr S opened an account with Metro.  In August 2017, fraudulent funds were 
received into this account, and then transferred on to further accounts hed opened for 
himself, and then on to third parties. Over the period of a few days, funds were received and 
transferred, and on one occasion Mr S called Metro  to try to retrieve funds. This is when he 
was told this couldnt be done.  
Metro was concerned  about this account activity, and believed  Mr S may have been used as 
a money mule. In September 2017,  it closed his accounts, and reported Mr S to CIFAS. 
The following  year,  Mr S wanted to open a new account elsewhere, but when he couldnt  do 
so he became aware of the CIFAS fraud marker against him. This was for the misuse of a 
facility in relation  to a money  mule,  recorded by Metro  in September  2017.  
Mr S complained, saying  hed not been involved  in any fraud, and hadnt given his account  
details to anyone  else. But Metro still believed a fraud had taken place, and that Mr S had 
been involved. So it refused to remove the CIFAS marker.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, so brought his complaint  to our service. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Metro  had complied with the Four 
Pillars Burden of Proof required by CIFAS, and that it was entitled not to agree  to remove  the 
marker. 
Mr S still didnt  agree. He explained, for the first time, that hed been  duped into a money-
making scheme. This explanation  was then given to Metro by our Investigator, but its view 
was that it remained  a matter of fact that Mr Ss account had been  used  to receive  and 
transfer fraudulent  funds,  and that Mr S himself had been instrumental in this taking place. It 
also queried why, if Mr S truly believed he was innocent, hed taken so long to query why his 
accounts had been closed  and the marker added.  So it wanted  the CIFAS marker  to remain,  
as it showed that it complied with its reporting duties.
As the parties couldnt  agree, the complaints come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold it.
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing  for Mr S, and Id like to explain why I think its 
fair, and the only one I can reach  on the basis of the evidence.  
My role is to carefully assess  all the evidence, and then reach an outcome I think is fair to 
both parties. Mr S believes hes been unfairly treated, as he says he didnt commit, or 
Ref: DRN70398522facilitate, fraud. And Metro says that it believes  on the evidence that Mr S was involved,  and 
that its fulfilling  its reporting duties in keeping the CIFAS  marker  in place. 
In her view,  our Investigator helpfully explained  the high bar required by CIFAS to register a 
marker against a customer. It isnt something thats easily  done.  This is to protect people. 
She said:- 
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank  must  have  a good 
reason to believe it could have suffered a loss and/or reasonably believe it had 
grounds to press criminal charges as a result  of the activity on the account. This 
should be more  than just a suspicion or concern.
It follows that the bank  must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this 
requirement. 
Given the impact of a CIFAS marker  can have on someone, the bank is expected  to 
keep a record of these checks so it can evidence the decision it reached to record  
the CIFAS marker.
Ive listened to what Metros had to say on this, and Ive seen the checks its done. I think the 
evidence, cumulatively, does suggest  that Mr S was involved in a misuse  of facility as a 
money mule, and that as such Metro did meet the Four Pillars Burden  of Proof required to 
load the CIFAS marker. I say this because I think its reasonable to believe it was he who 
called Metro to try to reverse  a payment,  and theres  nobody  else who could have had all the 
personal and security information  needed  to access his accounts and carry out the 
transactions.
As such,  I think what Metros done  is fair, and Im not going to ask it to remove the marker. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Ashley More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7039852