K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  closed his account and wont 
explain why.
background
Mr S had been a customer of Halifax for a number  of years.  But he received a letter  from the 
bank saying it would be closing his account.  And he wasnt  given a reason. He used the 
account to receive  his sons and daughters disability  money.  And the account was used 
regularly and without  any previous problem.  So he wants  Halifax  to sort things out.
Halifax said itd acted  appropriately and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  
The agreement allowed the bank  to close the account at any time without  explanation.  And 
itd given Mr S 65 days notice to make  other  arrangements for his banking. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Halifaxs response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She appreciated how frustrating it mustve been  for Mr S. 
But she felt Halifax had been entitled  to close the account. Itd taken  a commercial decision 
and acted within the terms of the account.  
Mr S didnt agree. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But having  done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator  and for the same reasons. 
Halifax wrote  to Mr S on 25 March 2019.  After carrying  out a review itd decided  to end the 
banking relationship. So it gave Mr S 65 days notice  to make alternative arrangements. And 
the account was closed  on 30 May.
I realise Mr S is unhappy our service isnt able to ask Halifax  to reconsider or at least explain 
its decision. But as our investigator  has explained its not the role of this service to tell banks 
how to run their businesses. Thats the role of its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Our role is to see if Halifax has made a mistake. And if it has to put the customer back in the 
position theyd  have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.  
Its not uncommon for banks to carry out reviews of customer  accounts.  And sometimes they 
take the decision to end the banking relationship - just as Mr S might decide to close an 
account himself and move his banking elsewhere. 
Halifax has taken a commercial decision not to continue its banking  relationship  with Mr S. 
And thats not something our service can look into. Its acted within  the terms and conditions 
of the account  by giving Mr S at least 60 days notice. And its explained he would have to 
make other arrangements  for any payments instructions  using the account. 
I do understand Mr Ss frustration. And I can appreciate he would like an explanation why 
the account is being closed. But the terms of the account allow  Halifax  to close it without 
giving any further  details. And thats  not something  I can interfere with.
Ref: DRN76256922I realise Mr S will be unhappy with this outcome. But based on what Ive seen  Halifax  has 
acted within  the terms and conditions agreed  to by Mr S. And its followed its procedures 
correctly. So I cant really  say Halifax has done  anything wrong. And I wont  be asking it to 
do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7625692