K821x#15complaint
Mrs O and Mr M complain  that FairFX Plc wont refund a cash withdrawal that they say they 
didnt receive.
background
Mrs O and Mr M were  abroad in March  2018.  They had loaded a pre paid card from FairFX 
with money from their joint bank account. They say they tried to take out 440 euros  from a 
cash machine and were  unsuccessful. When they tried a different machine  the money had 
been shown as debited and they told FairFX they wanted a refund.
FairFX didnt agree. It said that it had disputed the withdrawal using the chargeback  scheme 
and had received  information showing that the cash was dispensed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the money refunded  with 
eight per cent simple  interest and £75 paid in compensation. He said that:
-Mrs O and Mr M said that they had inserted their card into the machine and tried to 
withdraw money but were told there were insufficient  funds. They tried again but said 
that the machine showed that it would be converting a sterling  amount to euros  which 
they didnt think  was correct. 
-They said they voided the transaction and that they didnt think that the money was 
dispensed. They said that there  was no one behind them  when they used the 
machine 
-Mrs O and Mr M said they went to a machine at a different financial business  and 
were again told they had insufficient funds.
-They have provided evidence of using different means to fund their spending  while 
away and that they soon  contacted FairFX to complain.
-Hed asked FairFX to provide evidence about  any amounts of money in the purge 
box of the machine  and the journal  roll showing if there were any discrepancies 
when the machine  was balanced but these werent provided.
-Mrs O and Mr M had given a consistent  and plausible explanation of what  happened.  
We typically see more evidence in a dispute like this and that was the responsibility 
of FairFX to obtain.
FairFX didnt agree. It said that it had fulfilled its requirements under the voluntary 
chargeback scheme.  And that this service may like to approach the card scheme  involved  if 
it wanted more  information. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider all the issues that have  been raised by Mrs O and Mr M in this complaint. 
And one is that they cancelled the transaction and so it wasnt authorised.
So Ill be taking into account  the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These state  that a 
payment can only be authorised if it was consented  to. So its not enough for it to be 
authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised Mrs O and Mr M wouldnt 
generally be responsible for it.
Ref: DRN77309532As our investigator says there  is limited  information  about the withdrawal but Im going to set 
out some  of the key times involved  here that day. Ill be using local time HH:MM:SS 
(seconds only available for some points) as that was one hour ahead  of the time in this 
country:
15:54  the card is used in the machine  involved to attempt to withdraw 466.68 euros. This is 
more than the amount available. This may be the issue Mrs O and Mr M had mentioned with 
being asked for a sterling amount and then this was converted  into euros.
15:56:05  a withdrawal of 441.50  euros is requested which  included  a fee of 1.50.
15:58  the transaction  log shows the cash was dispensed which was at least one minute 
and 55 seconds  later but as I dont have the seconds it could be up to 59 seconds longer 
than this (that is to say up to 15:58:59).
15.59  Mrs O and Mr M try to make a withdrawal of 440 euros  at a different cash  machine 
which is refused as the previous withdrawal  is showing  as authorised
16:07  the original cash machine is next used for a withdrawal by a different customer.
17:03:05  Mrs O contacts FairFX by email about  the issue (I think  that the time given on the 
email was that in this country).
Im satisfied from the available evidence that sufficient information was input  into the 
machine to authenticate a payment. And that Mrs O and Mr M wanted  to withdraw the 
money. They were at this machine for some minutes  and Im satisfied based on the audit 
information that they requested a second withdrawal of 440 euros. There  is no evidence 
from the machine  log to show that this was cancelled even if thats what  they thought. Im 
satisfied that the withdrawal was authorised.
The question then is whether they received  the money or not. I appreciate that FairFX has 
raised a chargeback and that this is a voluntary scheme. Thats  often helpful  in gathering  
evidence about  a payment. And it operates  in line with the rules  of that card scheme. But as 
FairFX says thats not a statutory and binding approach. Its the way FairFX has been 
dealing with this. And I cant  see any evidence its attempted  to get any further information 
about the payment. That is fairly  its role here.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here. Im going  to need to think  about  what is 
most likely based on the evidence  available.
On the basis that the timings Ive been given above are all directly comparable I do consider 
the time between when  the withdrawal was authorised and the cash apparently dispensed  
relatively long especially  when waiting at a cash machine. So to me it isnt impossible that 
Mrs O and Mr M had concluded that no money  was being dispensed. And thats  why 
knowing whether  any money dispensed could have been purged back  into the machine if not 
taken is especially relevant. That length of delay is also not inconsistent  with an error being 
made in dispensing the money.  And again  the journal roll showing whether the machine 
balanced could  have assisted here. The machine  wasnt  used for a transaction for some  
minutes after that. Its not impossible that someone  else saw the money dispensed and took 
it. Ive no evidence for that and if say that had happened on the timings above I dont think  I 
could fairly  hold Mrs O and Mr M responsible for it. If for some reason these timings arent 
directly comparable then I still would think it reasonable to see the specific evidence  about 
the purge  bin and the journal roll (not to rely on a comment  apparently added to the 
transaction list by the cash machine owner to say that there were no exceedings).
I also take into account that within  about  a minute  (as I say I dont have the number of 
seconds here) Mrs O and Mr M were at a different cash  machine and had authorised a 
Ref: DRN77309533further withdrawal. Theyve  also shown  how when this was unsuccessful they quickly  
contacted FairFX and later managed to fund the rest of their trip in a different way. I agree 
with our investigator that their version  of events is plausible  and most likely  here.  Im not 
satisfied that FairFX has demonstrated that they received  this money.
I understand the difficulty FairFX may have felt in doing anything  more. But I have  to make 
my decision  on the strength of evidence that is available. Its not convinced me that its fair to 
hold Mrs O and Mr M responsible for this withdrawal. And so it should be refunded  and they 
should be compensated. I want to say a bit more about that to ensure  that they arent out of 
pocket. The loss in euros to them  is 441.50. This should be converted back to sterling  at the 
rate of exchange  used when they loaded the card (which was 444 euros divided by 400 
sterling = 1.11) resulting  in 397.75.  Theyve  mentioned that they want this paid direct  to their 
bank account  as they dont have a use for the card now and I think  thats a reasonable 
request. I also agree  with the simple  interest and the compensation for inconvenience 
recommended by our investigator.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require FairFX Plc to
1)Pay, not credit, Mrs O and Mr M with £397.75 plus simple  interest  at eight percent 
from the date it was loaded to the card to the date it is refunded  to them.
2)Pay, not credit, Mrs O and Mr M with £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7730953