K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage in February  1990  and alongside that a monthly premium 
PPI policy. The PPI policy covered Mr C only for accident, sickness  and unemployment. It 
cost £16 per month.  Its not clear now how much  cover the policy  wouldve provided  Mr and 
Mrs C with, but Bank of Scotland said its likely it wouldve covered their mortgage  
repayments in full. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so their complaint was 
passed to me. In the main  they said that they were pressurised  into taking the PPI because 
the sales person  got a healthy  commission. Also,  they said it was conjecture  that Mr C was 
eligible for the policy and they opted  to take it. They also pointed out that at the time Mr C 
had been made redundant a few times  and interest  rates were in double digits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.  
Where the evidence is incomplete  (as some  of it is here), I have to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  given the available  
evidence and wider  circumstances.  Here, I have  had to base some of my decisions on 
incomplete information, because most of the paperwork is no longer available. Thats not 
uncommon.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland hasnt got the paperwork from the sale. But this isnt surprising as banks 
often only keep records for six years. Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage account was closed  over 20 
years ago. Mr and Mrs C said they were pressurised into taking out PPI. But, based on the 
very limited information still available,  and what we know about Bank  of Scotlands sales  
processes around  this time from dealing with other  cases, I dont have enough to fairly 
conclude that Mr and Mrs C werent told PPI was optional  and were pressurised into taking 
out PPI. This is a very subjective area and memories can fade over time.  I think just as likely 
that they were  told they didnt have to have PPI, and chose to take it out to protect their 
home. I can understand why Mr and Mrs C may not remember it that way now,  after so 
much time.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to make  sure it was 
suitable. Bank of Scotland no longer has a copy  of the terms and conditions of the policy 
from the time of sale. So, Ive taken into account  what we know about other policies being 
sold around this time. Overall, I think it likely  the PPI was suitable, based on what Ive seen 
of their circumstances  at the time.  In reaching  this decision, I have taken into consideration 
Mrs Cs circumstances too - as this was a joint mortgage.  I think the policy  was likely  to be 
suitable because:
Ref: DRN71386002Mr C appeared eligible to take out the policy.  Mrs C wasnt in paid employment, so it 
seems appropriate  that PPI was taken out in his name only.  
Mr C couldnt remember if he wouldve got any sick pay through  work. Given  this 
policy was taken  out in 1990, its perhaps  not surprising that Mr C cant  recall 
everything from the time of the sale.  Mr C said hed been made redundant a few 
times before he took out this mortgage. Even if Mr C wouldve got benefits through 
work, I cant  see that this wouldve  made the policy  unsuitable  for him. I say this 
because the policy  wouldve  paid out on top of his work benefits. And its possible  
that the policy wouldve covered him for longer than his work benefits. He wouldve 
likely been covered for 12 months for unemployment and 24 months for accident and 
sickness. So, I think the policy  couldve provided them with a useful benefit,  
particularly as it was safeguarding their home.  
They said they had around 3 months worth of savings.  The PPI wouldve  allowed 
them to use their savings  to meet their other living expenses. If Mr C wasnt  working, 
they didnt have a second wage to fall back on. So, I cant see that their other  
resources made  the policy inappropriate for them.  
The policy appeared affordable at £16 per month  and the monthly  premium  couldve 
been cancelled  at any time without them losing out financially.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed 
before they decided  to buy PPI. But, as Ive said above, it appears  to have been affordable 
and suitable for the reasons set out. I also dont know when Bank of Scotland  first pointed  
out the main things  the policy didnt cover. But, as Mr C wasnt affected  by any of the main 
limitations or exclusions in the policy, I dont think having better information about these 
things wouldve changed their decision to buy PPI.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs C have said including that interest  rates 
were high and Mr C had been made redundant a few times before  taking  out this mortgage 
and PPI. But, this doesnt lead me to change my view.  I think  the PPI couldve offered 
Mr and Mrs C valuable protection, in their circumstances. 
I cant see that Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of anything  that Bank of Scotland 
couldve done better. So, it follows that I dont think this policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7138600