K822xComplaint
Mrs S, who is represented by her husband  Mr S, complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) refused to let her reject a faulty car.
Background 
In April 2018 Mrs S acquired a new car costing £41,340 funded  by a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS. Within 30 days Mrs S wrote the dealer to reject  the car saying there  
were paint defects, rattles, a missing carpet and intermittent radio and satnav connections. 
The dealer  disputed that the car was faulty and suggested the faults were cosmetic.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He noted that the dealer had offered her a 
replacement car, a model she had been  considering originally, but the finance  application  
was declined. 
He concluded,  having examined  the photographs of the car, that it wasnt  free from minor 
defects and as such Mrs S should  be allowed  to reject it. He said MBFS should unwind the 
agreement, take the car back and pay Mrs S £500  compensation  for the loss of enjoyment of 
the car. MBFS agreed,  but challenged the compensation element of the redress.
It said there was significant doubt that the car had been sold in the condition Mr S claimed  
and pointed to an email in which he had notified the dealer the carpet  was dirty, but 
otherwise the car was excellent.  It believed this was a case of buyers remorse.
Mr S said the car had already  been  sold. It had been part exchanged for £27,450 in October 
2018 with £39,819 still owing to MBFS. This had been paid off and he suggested  MBFS 
should be required to compensate his wife for her loss.
Our adjudicator said that Mrs S was no longer  able to reject the car as she couldnt return it 
and suggested  MBFS 
Remove any adverse  information relating to the declined application for the GLC 
Coupe from Mrs Ss credit file.
Pay Mrs S £500 for trouble and upset,  as she shouldve been allowed to reject the 
car when she first requested to.
Refund 10% of all the monthly payments she made between  30 April 2018,  when  she 
entered the agreement,  and 17 October 2018 when she sold the car. This was due to 
loss of enjoyment and expectation  in using the car.
MBFS agreed, but Mr S didnt and reiterated that his wife should  have been allowed to reject  
the car and if she had then she wouldnt have suffered the loss she did when she sold it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN75110012The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MBFS is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mrs S acquired an expensive car and she had every expectation that it would be free from 
minor defects. The faults she found are unusual for such  a car, but the photographs show  
defects. I appreciate that MBFS feel that the car was fault free when sold and I have some 
sympathy with that view,  but I dont have  sufficient evidence to share that conclusion. 
While I think that the apparent faults  could have  been dealt with the dealer,  I believe the best 
course of action would  have  been for MBFS to let Mrs S reject the car. I note she agreed  to 
a replacement model, but the finance fell though. I have considered that Mr S says this was 
due to errors by the dealer, but I have  insufficient  evidence to support that claim.
It is unfortunate that Mrs S decided to pre-empt the outcome of her complaint  only two 
months after bringing it to this service. As the adjudicator has explained  rejection is no 
longer possible.
I asked Mr S for details  of the sale of the car and the purchase of the new one which is a 
very expensive brand.  He only provided details  of the trade  in and not the purchase of the 
new car, but I note that the car was sold by a company of which he is a director,  but his wife 
is not. It is not clear  how and when the car was sold by Mrs S to her husbands company or if 
that was an error on the invoice.
I was also concerned at the very low price obtained in the trade in. The car was only six 
months old and had done 8,900 miles so I was surprised it had lost a third of its value. The 
defects which Mr S said it suffered from would  not account for that dramatic loss in value. 
Sadly I dont have the full details of the deal which was done  to buy the new expensive car to 
see if there was a corresponding reduction in the sale price.
If the car had been returned  to MBFS I suspect it would have been  able to achieve a 
significantly better price for it and therefore  I dont consider  it should  cover Mrs Ss apparent  
loss. I would add for completeness that Mrs S was able to make significant  use of the car in 
her short period of ownership so I doubt she suffered significant loss of enjoyment.
However, after due consideration I have decided that the fairest  conclusion  is that reached 
by our adjudicator.
Ref: DRN75110013My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial  
Services UK Limited to:
Remove any adverse  information relating to the declined application for the GLC 
Coupe from Mrs Ss credit file.
Pay Mrs S £500 for trouble and upset,  as she shouldve been allowed to reject the 
car when she first requested.
Refund her 10% of all the monthly  payments  she made between 30 April 2018, when 
she entered the agreement, and 17 October  2018  when she sold the car. This is due 
to the minimal loss of enjoyment and expectation in using  the car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7511001