K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC T/A Barclaycard unfairly reported a default 
on his credit card account. He says that Barclays has sent him a letter  admitting it 
treated him unfairly.
background
Mr M held a Barclaycard  credit card account  which he managed  well until he became 
unemployed in early  2016. Mr M was out of work for a period of around five months,  
during which  time he didnt make any repayments  to his Barclaycard account. 
Barclays spoke to Mr M about the situation  and when he explained he was out of work, it 
agreed to suspend interest  and fees on the account, as well as halt any debt chasing 
activity, for a total of 44 days.  It explained this didnt mean that arrears would stop 
building up or that adverse information wouldnt  be reported to credit  reference agencies.
After this conversation  with Barclays, Mr M missed a fourth consecutive minimum 
payment on his credit card account. Barclays then closed his account in line with its 
policy. Mr M complained that he hadnt been  given  any warning the account  would be 
closed  and had Barclays told him this could be a consequence, hed have arranged to 
make the payments.
Mr M didnt  make any further payments to his account while his complaint was being  
investigated. Barclays ultimately defaulted his account in January 2017, after sending 
him notices  of default. Mr M says he didnt receive  these letters as hed moved address. 
He complained that the default  was unfair  and Barclays had acted unreasonably.
One of our investigators  looked at this complaint in 2017. They found that Barclays 
hadnt treated  Mr M unfairly  so they didnt recommend that the business  do anything  
more. Mr M didnt  agree, but left the complaint there.
Barclays then wrote to Mr M in September 2018.  It said that following a recent review, it 
had found a period of time where it hadnt always met its internal service standards  
when dealing with people who were struggling to make their repayments. Mr Ms 
account was one that might have been  affected, so Barclays offered to return the 
interest and default  fees that had been  applied to his account during this period. The 
total refund  was £173.87.
Mr M got back  in contact with us. He felt that the letter  from Barclays showed hed been 
treated unfairly   and so the conclusions we reached in 2017 were wrong.
Our investigator looked at this as a new complaint. They didnt agree that Barclays  letter  
was an admission of liability. And they still considered that Barclays had treated Mr M 
fairly when  it closed his account and later reported a default.  
Mr M didnt  agree. So the complaints been referred  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN71150202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While this complaint is centred on the 
letter Barclays sent Mr M in 2018, and whether that was an admission of liability, Ive 
considered the full circumstances  when making my decision.
Mr Ms core complaint  is that Barclays didnt notify  him that missing payments may lead 
to his account being closed. He also says he wasnt warned that his account was going  
to be defaulted.
Ive listened to the call recordings between Mr M and Barclays at the time he fell behind  
with his payments.  In a call in June 2016, when three payments had been missed, Mr M 
explained that he was still unemployed. But he had found and accepted a new job, which  
was due to start shortly. Barclays advisor  explained  she could put a hold on the account 
so no interest or fees would be applied for 30 days. This would also stop Mr M being 
chased for payment in that time.  But if he didnt  make the minimum payment due in 
June, the card would  be blocked and unavailable for future  use. Mr M agreed to this.
Given this call, I think Mr M was made  aware of what would happen if he missed another  
payment. I know he had a lot going on at the time and had a number of other bills that he 
was managing. So its understandable that he may not have  remembered  that his card 
might be blocked. But I dont think that was Barclays  fault.
Mr M also says that he didnt receive the letters which talked about his account being 
defaulted. But I can see Barclays wrote  to him in August and September 2016,  warning 
him that the account was in arrears and would be defaulted unless a payment was 
made. Further default notices were  issued in November and December 2016, before the 
account was defaulted in January 2017.
I accept Mr Ms point  that these letters were  sent to his old address. But it seems  that Mr 
M hadnt  updated  his address with Barclays, despite  having  moved  in March 2016. And 
he says he had a redirect service on his mail. While I accept that this can delay post, 
there were three months between the first default  notice  and the account actually 
defaulting. So overall I think Barclays did enough  to make Mr M aware of his options and 
the consequences of continued non-payment.  
Ive then considered  whether the letter Barclays  sent in 2018 admits to any error  
handling Mr Ms account. And I dont think it does. 
I say this because  the letter explains that Barclays may not have offered [Mr M] the 
support most appropriate to [his] financial situation (my emphasis).  It goes on to say 
that Mr M can get in touch  with Barclays if he feels there are other  losses specific  to his 
circumstances. 
Barclays has told us that the redress exercise  was carried out for all accounts that may 
have been affected. Not all of the customers who were offered redress  would have been 
disadvantaged and for those customers the offers should be seen as gestures  of 
goodwill. 
Ref: DRN71150203Ive considered what the bank has said and Ive also looked carefully at what  happened 
with Mr Ms account. Having done so I dont think he was affected by any systemic 
errors and I think he was treated positively and sympathetically. So Im not asking 
Barclays to do anything  more.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7115020