K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr W applied  for a credit card in 1994  and bought PPI around  the same  time.
Mr W says he wasnt  aware the PPI had been  added and, because he was self-employed, it 
wasnt of benefit  to him.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt  uphold it. Mr W disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mr W he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to 
it. Lloyds doesnt  have a copy of the credit card application Mr W signed, which I dont think 
is surprising given how long ago the sale was. But we do have samples of application forms 
Lloyds was using  at the time. And from these its clear an applicant wouldve had to make an 
active selection for PPI to be added to their account.  Its possible PPI was added  to Mr Ws 
account without  his consent as he says it was. But from the sample  applications weve got, 
and from what we know about Lloyds normal sales process at the time, I think  its more 
likely he agreed to the PPI knowing he had a choice about it.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr W so it needed to make sure it was right for him. I 
dont know what steps Lloyds took to do this. But from what  Mr W has said about his 
circumstances at the time and from the policy terms I have, I think it was. Thats because,  
from this information,  I think:
Mr W was eligible  for the PPI. And he wouldnt have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual employment 
terms. So thered have been nothing  to stop him claiming the full policy benefit if hed 
needed to.
Mr W couldve found the cover of some use, since it wouldve helped with his card 
repayments for up to 12 months  if he was sick or without  work.  Mr W says he was 
self-employed, so he wouldnt have  got any sick pay if he couldnt  work because he 
was sick or had had an accident. And while some PPI policies made it difficult  for 
self-employed people to claim  for unemployment under the policy,  this one didnt.   
Mr Ws representatives say it wouldve been  difficult for him to make a successful 
claim because  hed have had to cease trading and wind down his business. But I 
dont think the policy required  this  so I dont  think the self-employed  policy terms 
made it unsuitable for him.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr W couldnt afford the cover.
Ref: DRN78612252As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr W enough clear 
information so he could make an informed decision about whether he wanted the cover.  Its 
possible Lloyds didnt  make some policy details as clear as it shouldve done   such  as its 
true cost and the things it didnt cover. But I think its likely Mr W chose to have  the PPI and I 
think it was right for him in his circumstances.  And I think clearer  information would only 
have confirmed this to him and wouldnt have changed his decision to go ahead with it.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861225