K820x#14complaint
Ms D says Santander UK plc, trading as Abbey National, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1994 Ms D took out PPI at the same  time as she was applying  for a mortgage. Its most  
likely the sale was in one of the banks branches. The policy,  which  she paid for monthly,  
gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
The adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Ms D disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
 
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms D says she was led to believe the PPI was necessary and essential,  she wasnt told it 
was optional. And she was put under pressure through the implication that she had to have 
it. The bank disputes  this saying it has never been  a requirement to take PPI with a 
mortgage. It says Ms D would have  completed  a separate  application form for the PPI. It 
cant provide the paperwork  from the sale, but thats not unreasonable  given how long ago it 
was. So I dont know how the policy was presented in the meeting. Ms D also says the bank 
didnt tell her about other providers, but thats not something it had to do. 
Ive thought carefully about all of Ms Ds comments. But I also have to take into account the 
sale was nearly 25 years  ago and how this might impact what she recalls. The language 
Ms D used in her complaint questionnaire  such as the advisor may have suggested and 
the advisor may have  taken advantage  suggests  to me Ms D doesnt have a precise and 
specific recollection of the sale. I can understand this given how long ago it was. So overall, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly  conclude Santander didnt make it clear  the PPI was 
optional, and Ms D didnt agree to take it. 
Santander recommended  the PPI, so it had to make sure it was right for Ms D. From what 
Ive seen I think the PPI was suitable.  I say this because:
Ms D qualified  for the cover.
I havent seen anything to make  me think shed  be caught by anything  the policy  didnt 
cover  like known  health problems or the type of employment contract  which mightve 
made it unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN71775722Ms D says she was entitled  to six months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out for up 
to 36 months for accident and sickness claims, in addition to her work benefits.  It also 
gave her up to 12 months  redundancy cover. Shes told us she had £16,400 in savings 
but the PPI would have allowed her to use these to cover other living costs whilst not 
working, or to keep  them  intact for her future needs. Ms D said she had a death-in-
service benefit too, but that offers a different  kind of cover and wouldnt help with 
monthly mortgage payments in the same way as PPI. Ms D was borrowing quite a large 
amount of money  over a long time,  secured against her home.  So I think  the PPI 
wouldve been  useful  for her if she was sick or had an accident, given the serious 
consequences of not being able to make mortgage payments. 
I havent seen anything to make  me think Ms D couldnt afford the PPI or that its monthly 
cost made it unsuitable for her.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Ms D, Santander also had to give her enough 
clear information for her to make an informed  decision about  whether or not she wanted it. 
Its possible it didnt  but, as I said, I think its most likely Ms D chose  to take out the policy 
and so appears to have  wanted this type of cover. So I think its unlikely she wouldve  made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. I say this as Ms D wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  and the policy was apparently  affordable. 
It follows I dont think Ms D has lost out as a result of anything Santander did wrong. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7177572