K821x#15Complaint
Mr S and the estate  of the late Mrs R say Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background and summary to complaint
Mr S and Mrs R bought the policy in 1991 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £150.94 a month towards  Mr S and Mrs Rs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £12.90 a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a production  operator. Hes told us he was entitled to full 
pay for six months and half pay for at least another six months  if he was off work sick. He 
didnt have any other means  of repaying  the mortgage should  he be unable to work.  Mr S 
has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale.  
Ive taken into account Mrs Rs circumstances too but have focussed mainly  on those of 
Mr S since  he was the only person covered by the policy.
Nationwides sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in May 1996.  
Mr S and Mrs Rs representatives made  lengthy and substantial representations  on their 
behalf.
I wont restate them all here, but Ive read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr S and Mrs Rs representative said:
 
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S and 
Mrs Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr S and Mrs R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr S and 
Mrs R and the impact they would  have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr S and Mrs R received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld   both parties  have seen, and 
been given the opportunity to respond to, the adjudicators opinion. Mr S and Mrs R 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for several  reasons. These  included  that Mr S was 
Ref: DRN77810762suffering with a pre-existing medical  condition that meant it would have been extremely 
difficult for them to claim. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. After  
considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think the 
PPI had been mis-sold.  I gave the parties the opportunity to respond before I considered the 
complaint again.
Nationwide confirmed it didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional decision.
Mr S and the estate  of Mrs R didnt  reply to my provisional decision. But Im satisfied  they 
were made aware, and twice reminded,  of the deadline for responses, so I think  its 
reasonable to assume that if they wanted to respond  theyd have done so by now. I therefore 
think its appropriate to carry  on and issue my final decision.
My findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  whats,  in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Mrs Rs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1991, before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1996. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN77810763Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding whats, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr S and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  whats, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr S and Mrs R with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr S and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S 
and Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr S and Mrs R 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN77810764Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and Mrs R 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Mrs Rs mis-sale complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
Did Mr S and Mrs R know  they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. There isnt much  evidence 
still available to show that Nationwide did so. But, I dont find that surprising given how long 
ago the policy was sold. And I find it just as likely  in the absence of enough evidence  to 
suggest otherwise   that Nationwide did give Mr S and Mrs R a choice  about  taking it.
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr S and Mrs R knew  the policy  was optional and 
they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Looking at what happened when 
Nationwide sold Mr S and Mrs R the PPI, and from experience of how it sold PPI more 
widely, Im not persuaded that it provided advice.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr S and Mrs R. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
The information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr S and Mrs R were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr S 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr S and Mrs R would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr S and Mrs R agreed  to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think Nationwide gave Mr S and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S and Mrs Rs representative  has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr S and 
Mrs Rs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN77810765-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr S and Mrs Rs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr S and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr S and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr S and Mrs R? To what extent 
did Mr S and Mrs R suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr S 
and Mrs R. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr S and Mrs R would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide  done  things  properly. 
Mr S and Mrs R said they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S and Mrs R had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr S being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr S and Mrs R chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what  Mr S and 
Mrs R thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr S and Mrs R have suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr S and Mrs R knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Nationwide  told them the exact premium at the 
point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr S and Mrs R would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Nationwide at the time,  or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S and Mrs R would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN77810766In addition, Im not persuaded  Nationwide  made  clear exactly  what Mr S and Mrs R would 
get back in return  in the event Mr S made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr S 
and Mrs Rs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S and Mrs R thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to chronic  or recurring medical  conditions  that 
Mr S was aware  of or had suffered in the 12 months before  the start of the policy; 
The policy excluded cover if Mr S wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job or any other  occupation for which he was fitted  by knowledge or 
training.
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S and Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  
that the policy wasnt as good as they thought  and they might  have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S and Mrs R 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr S and Mrs Rs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr S was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to them  should  
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr S and Mrs R said Mr S had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put them off agreeing to it. 
I note that, in their response to the adjudicators assessment of the complaint of 
January 2019,  Mr S and Mr Rs representative  said Mr S chest problems  were  ongoing and 
not managed. He was receiving treatment from his GP in the 12 months  before  they bought 
the policy.
In October  2018, Mr S and Mrs R said in their PPI questionnaire (PPIQ) that Mr S had 
missed three to five days of work  in around  1988  and another three days of work in 1990. On 
both occasions,  his chest problems were treated by his GP with antibiotics. He said he 
suffered with ongoing chest problems and upper respiratory issues.
However, I also note that the PPIQ Mr S and Mrs R sent to Nationwide  in August 2018 
referred to the medical conditions but made  no mention of any ongoing problems.
Further, when Nationwide spoke directly  to Mr S in September 2018, he apparently  said he 
fully recovered  from his chest  problems  after a course of antibiotics. He said he had no 
recurring problems  and there was no impact on his ability to work or on his day-to-day  life.
Ref: DRN77810767Given the inconsistencies in the available information, I cant  fairly  say with any certainty that 
Mr S chest problems were ongoing  in 1991 or that they would have led to him viewing the 
policy as materially less useful as a result. What does appear consistent  is that the problems 
were conservatively treated by his GP and the picture overall leads  me to think this wouldnt 
have put Mr S and Mrs R off the policy.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr S would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So, I still think Mr S and Mrs R had some  good reasons to take 
the policy out.  
If Mr S and Mrs R had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr R was unable  to do 
both his job and any other occupation  for which hes fitted by knowledge or experience, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would have done. And I accept it may 
have given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been overly  
concerned given that if Mr S was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation  
the chances that hed be able to take up a similar occupation would  also,  in all probability, be 
limited.
Nationwide may not have  told Mr S and Mrs R that any claim they made would be limited to 
a 24-month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped 
for. But 24 months was a longer period than Mr S would have received full sick pay for and 
his statutory redundancy entitlement  was also significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S and Mrs R would still have  thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments  many other  similar policies paid no more 
than 12 monthly benefit payments  would  have been of benefit to them.  And that it would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr S be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr S sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S and Mrs R would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr S was made redundant,  or unable to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr S and 
Mrs R would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr S and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints 
(DISP App 3) make  it clear  that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless theres  evidence  to outweigh  
the presumption.  They say we should  follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but its a relevant  consideration so I take it into account along with 
many other things when  I decide whats in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering the 
purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach 
Ive taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN77810768presumed Mr S and Mrs R would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, theres  evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumptions rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr S and 
Mrs Rs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr S and Mrs R found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S and Mrs R believed  the presumption may only be rebutted when  the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and weve failed to 
give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they wouldnt  have 
taken out the policy.  Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S and the estate of Mrs R in the position theyd have 
been in if they hadnt  bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt  have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that theyd still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Nationwide should pay Mr S and the estate of Mrs R compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than theyd  have been in if everything had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S and Mrs R thought Nationwide misrepresented  the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude 
some of Nationwides statements  misrepresented  the contract,  in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably wasnt  because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr S and 
Mrs R, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1991  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach a court might take if it were to find Nationwide  
negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr S and Mrs R and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about whats  fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I thinks  fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S and the estate of Mrs R in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
One final issues that, following our involvement, Nationwide discovered that the policy 
continued for a time even after Mr S and Mrs Rs home had been repossessed.  So, they 
were paying  the monthly premium despite  the insurer no longer  being on risk. As such, I 
gather Nationwides offered to refund the extra  premiums they paid plus interest   and that 
Mr S and Mrs R accepted, subject to us continuing  to consider their mis-sale complaint. 
Ref: DRN77810769I make  no detailed finding on the above issue now, since this appears to have  been  resolved 
between the parties  already, other than to say that the offer appears to be fair.  
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats,  in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont  uphold this complaint other than with regard to the partial refund of premiums. 
Its for Mr S to establish whether the partial refund of premiums should be shared with 
anyone else in light of Mrs Rs death.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs R to accept or reject  my decision before 25 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7781076