K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complained that One Sure Insurance Limited  mis-sold his motor trade policy and 
charged him a higher premium than it had originally quoted.   
background
In January 2018 Mr K bought his policy through One Sure - which  is a broker - over the 
phone. He had a number  of calls to get a quote  and then buy his policy.
After agreeing a quote and deciding to buy the policy, Mr K was unhappy that the premium  
has increased since his earlier  quote.  One Sure said this was because the original quote 
hadnt included  protected no claims discount (NCD). Mr K decided  to continue  with the sale 
and paid the additional premium to protect  his NCD.  
When Mr K received his policy documents they showed the insurer was regulated abroad.  
Mr K complained to One Sure.  He said One Sure had referred to the policy as being in-
house. And he didnt think that was accurate as One Sure wasnt  the insurer.  He also 
complained about the premium increase. 
One Sure said the premium increase was because  Mr K wanted to protect his NCD. And 
also because the first call handler had incorrectly  entered an open claim on the quote as 
non-fault which meant the earlier quote was lower  than it should have been.
One Sure said it would refund  the additional  premium that had been  generated due to the 
call handler recording the open claim as non-fault.  But didnt think  it had given Mr K 
misleading information because it said it had delegated  authority  to underwrite policies for 
the insurer.
While we were  looking  into Mr Ks complaint  the insurer  went  into administration. Mr K 
complained to us that One Sure should  have known the insurer was in financial difficulty  and 
not sold him the policy. He said hed lost out financially as he had to stop using  his car 
immediately when the insurer went into administration  and had to get his car recovered and 
use a hire car. Mr K also complained that the phone  calls One Sure  provided us had been 
edited. 
One Sure agreed to us looking  into this part of Mr Ks complaint. It said it had already fully 
refunded his premium  to him which meant hed had five months free cover. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 December  2018  where  I explained 
why I didnt think One Sure needed to do anything else. In that decision I said:
Mr Ks made a number  of detailed points but Im going to focus  on what I see as the main 
issues of his complaint.  
increased premium
Ive listened to calls between One Sure and Mr K including the call when his premium 
increased from £935.96 to £1,095.56. Its clear from this that Mr K wanted to protect his NCD 
and didnt realise there was going to be an additional cost. I can understand why he was 
frustrated to find out hed need  to pay more. And I think it would have been helpful for      
Ref: DRN75277092One Sure to have discussed protecting  his NCD in the first call, so hed know  the total 
premium hed need to pay. 
I can see from One Sures system notes that there was an increase in premium for Mr K to 
protect his NCD. Its not unusual for insurers to charge  more  for this and Mr K still chose to 
take the policy when he knew about the additional  premium. So I dont  think he would  have 
done anything  differently  if hed known about it in the earlier  call.
One Sures said Mr Ks premium also increased  because its adviser incorrectly  entered an 
open claim as being  non-fault.  Again I can understand Mr Ks frustration at the increase but 
Im satisfied by the information on One Sures system notes that changing  how that claim 
was recorded  increased the premium. But One Sure  hasnt charged the additional  premium  
generated by the claim, and so Im not going  to ask it to compensate Mr K any further for 
this.
suitability of advice
Mr K bought his policy over the phone in an advised sale.  Under industry rules (ICOBS)   
One Sure needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice to Mr K. And 
theres a general  principle  that One Sure had to provide  Mr K with information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading. 
From the calls Ive listened  to I havent heard anything to make me think theyve been edited. 
In one call Mr K asked if the insurer was regulated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA).     
One Sures call handler said the insurer is, and has to be to work with One Sure. 
The insurance certificate says the insurer is authorised and regulated  by the Danish 
Financial Services Authority (FSA).  The insurer is able to provide insurance  in the UK via a 
service passport which allows them to run their permitted activities  in another  country in the 
European Economic  Area (EEA).  The insurance certificate says the insurer is permitted to 
conduct business in the UK under a FCA reference  number. But while the insurer  is 
permitted to carry out activities in the UK under a FCA reference,  I think it was misleading  for 
One Sure to say the insurer was regulated by the FCA as it was regulated by the Danish 
FSA.  
Mr K said if hed known the insurer was regulated  abroad he wouldnt have bought the 
policy, as he wouldnt have been  able to bring  any complaint about the insurer to our service.  
Im persuaded by what Mr Ks said because he specifically asked if the insurer  was 
regulated by the FCA. If it wasnt important to him I dont think  he would  have asked. So, Im 
persuaded by the evidence that he wouldnt  have  bought the policy. But I dont think One 
Sure needs to do anything else to put things right and Ill explain why. 
Mr Ks already received a full refund  of his premium as well as being covered by the policy 
for five months. If he hadnt bought this policy he would have had to buy another one. And 
hes told us the other  quotes hed been  given were more expensive. So I dont think Mr Ks 
lost out financially as hes benefitted from five months free cover. Im aware Mr K doesnt  
think he had cover because the insurer was in financial  difficulty.  But I havent seen anything  
to persuade me Mr K wasnt legally covered for those  five months.
Mr Ks policy  documents clearly set out details of the insurer  and showed the insurer was 
regulated abroad. Mr K decided  to complain to our service  when  he saw the insurers  details  
rather than cancelling  his policy.  So I think he made the choice to continue with it. 
Ref: DRN75277093whether One Sure should have known the insurer was in financial difficulty and not sold the 
policy 
The FCA expects brokers to conduct  due diligence on the insurers where  they place their 
customers business1. The FCA gives examples2 of sources of information  and 
considerations brokers should take when doing  this. These include: 
giving  the name  and address of the insurer in consumer literature; 
checking the insurers Solvency and Financial Condition Report, of which  a key 
indicator is the solvency  coverage percentage - which it said should be over 100%;
checking the FCA register to see if the insurer has passported in on services or 
branch basis to show where the home state  regulator is; 
checking whether  the insurer comes under our voluntary  jurisdiction or if theres a 
dispute resolution service in the home state;  and 
seeing the insurers audited accounts. It also said the British Insurers  Brokers 
Association (BIBA) published a Litmus test which is a useful tool for brokers to help 
with due diligence.
One Sure said it had access to the insurers financial statements when they were published. 
It said it had seen the insurers Solvency and Financial Condition  report  for 2016  which  is the 
last one that was published as the insurer had been declared bankrupt before publishing the 
2017 figures and this didnt provide any cause for concern.
The Solvency and Financial Condition Report  has to be published as part of Solvency II 
regulations. Solvency II is a regulatory  framework  for insurers  and the percentage coverage 
is a measure of the insurers ability to pay its debts  and other obligations. Ive seen the 
insurers 2016 annual  report  and this showed  it had a solvency  coverage  rating  of 219% for 
the parent  company and 199% for the group, so well over 100%.
One Sure said it recognised the Solvency and Financial Condition report  for 2016 had to be 
restated in July 2017 due to issues affecting its reinsurer. But it said the insurers  solvency 
capital requirement  was still over 140%. That meant the insurer  still met Solvency II 
regulations in the latest figures One Sure had available. 
One Sure said it also monitors the insurance press  and notifications through  its membership 
of BIBA  on a daily basis, as well as the insurers website publications, changes in 
permissions and changes  in directorships. One Sure provided the insurers name  and 
address clearly on the certificate of insurance. 
The insurer  didnt stop selling new policies until over a month after One Sure  sold Mr Ks 
policy. And that was due to one of its reinsurers  being placed into interim administration. I 
understand Mr Ks said the media abroad raised  concerns about the insurers  financial 
stability at around the time he bought his policy. But I havent seen enough to persuade  me 
One Sure should have known the insurer was in financial  difficulty and not sold Mr K a 
policy. Overall  Im satisfied One Sure did due diligence on the insurer, but even if it didnt I 
dont think Mr Ks suffered  a financial loss due to having his premium refunded. 
I understand Mr K said he experienced a financial loss when  the insurer went into 
administration as he had to get a hire car for a day due his policy no longer being valid.  I 
1 Broker due diligence on insurers: working  to prevent harm. Compliance Rules  Quarter Three  2017
2 Not a comprehensive list
Ref: DRN75277094accept that caused him inconvenience  and the cost of hiring  the car. While  I agree  its 
unlikely Mr K would  have taken the policy if One Sure told him the insurer  was regulated 
abroad, it was Mr Ks decision to continue with the policy once he knew. So I dont  think it 
needs to compensate him for any financial loss caused by him needing to hire a car. Also, 
even if I thought Mr K only had the policy because of One Sure giving him misleading 
information, hes also had five months  free cover. And Im satisfied that would be enough to 
cover the days hire costs  and any inconvenience. 
Mr Ks raised additional points about  why he thinks his policy was mis-sold. I dont think  they 
matter to the outcome of this complaint given  that Ive agreed  One Sure  gave Mr K some  
misleading information and hes been fairly  compensated. Ultimately  hes unhappy because 
he thinks the policy was mis-sold. The remedy for a mis-sale would be to refund the 
premium and thats what has happened. So the additional points,  in my view, are not issues  I 
need to address to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr K has raised his concerns about  One Sures regulatory permissions with the 
FCA. As the conduct  regulator the FCA is best placed to look into this, so Im not going to 
comment on it.  
Overall, I can understand why Mr K was frustrated  when his premium  increased after being 
given a quote. And I think One Sure gave Mr K some misleading information about  where  
the insurer was regulated.  But Im satisfied its done  enough  to compensate  him for that by 
giving him five months free cover.  So I dont  intend to ask it to do anything else. 
 
One Sure didnt  provide  any further  comments in response to my provisional decision but    
Mr K didnt agree. He said Id referred  to his premium being increased due to a fault claim, 
which wasnt correct as he hadnt  had a claim that was his fault. He also said Id only 
responded to his complaint about the premium  increase and not that One Sure  had 
described the policy as being in-house.  He said there was no mention of the costs to recover  
his car and for him to hire a new car once the insurer had gone into administration. And also 
that One Sure had been  unhelpful and refused to find him a competitive new quote at that 
time. Mr K maintained One Sure should have known not to sell him his policy  as it should 
have known the insurer was in financial difficulty.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
fault claim
Mr K had an open claim at the time he bought  his policy. Where a claim is open  its usual for 
it to be considered a fault claim until its closed as otherwise.  So that doesnt mean Mr K had 
a fault claim, just an open one. In any event One Sure  waived the additional premium it 
initially charged him, so I dont think it needs to do anything further.
mis-sale of his policy
Ref: DRN75277095Im satisfied the crux of Mr Ks complaint to us is that he feels  his policy  was mis-sold by  
One Sure and Ive addressed what I consider to be the main  points of this. I think One Sure  
provided Mr K with some misleading information  about who regulated the insurer when it 
sold his policy. And Im satisfied its fairly compensated him by providing him with five 
months of free cover.  
Im persuaded One Sure did due diligence on the insurer  for the reasons set out in my 
provisional findings above. I havent seen anything other than Mr Ks comments to suggest it 
should have known the insurer  was in financial difficulty. And even  if I accepted it shouldnt 
have sold Mr K the policy, hes already received a full refund of his premium despite being  
legally covered for five months. For that reason I dont think One Sure needs to compensate 
Mr K any further for his hire car or recovery vehicle  costs.
I understand Mr K remains  concerned that One Sure described the policy  as being in-house. 
One Sure said it has delegated authority to underwrite the policy  on behalf of the insurer.  I 
dont find this unusual  but I also dont think it matters  to the outcome of this complaint. Thats 
because Ive already  accepted One Sure  provided Mr K with some misleading  information 
when selling  the policy and Im satisfied  hes received appropriate compensation for this. 
And even  if I was to find that One Sure shouldnt  have described the policy as being in-
house I wouldnt be recommending  any further  compensation  as hes already received a full 
refund of his premium.  So I dont think I need  to address that point any further in this 
decision. 
Mr K has also complained about  the support One Sure  gave him after the insurer  went  into 
administration. As that didnt form the basis of this complaint, its being  dealt  with separately.  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping  for but Im not going to ask One Sure  to 
do anything else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7527709