K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt treat them  fairly when it knew  they 
were in financial difficulties.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a repayment mortgage  and mortgage current account (MCA) with 
Barclays in 2004.  The MCA  terms allowed  Mr and Mrs M an overdraft facility up to a 
specified limit (the reserve) in addition to the mortgage loan. The overdraft  debt was secured 
on their property.
Mr and Mrs M took out additional borrowing  in 2011, part of which  was to be used  to repay 
unsecured debts and their existing MCA overdraft. In 2012 they extended the term of the 
mortgage to 2032, which reduced  their contractual monthly payments. 
In 2012 Mr and Mrs M were in financial difficulty and entered  into an arrangement for their 
unsecured debts. They say they werent told that the MCA was secured and wasnt  included 
in the arrangement.  Theyve recently found  out that the MCA overdraft  is over £10,000. Mr 
and Mrs M say Barclays should have known they were in financial difficulty  in 2012. They  
say they missed payments and contacted Barclays for help, but it didnt respond.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr and 
Mr M had maintained their mortgage  payments. They missed one payment in 2010, which 
they said was due to Mr M being  paid weekly rather than monthly. They didnt tell Barclays 
they were in financial difficulty. And it wasnt clear what  assistance  Mr and Mrs M could have 
expected from Barclays.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M entered into a trust deed  in 2012.  This is an arrangement available  in 
Scotland for individuals who are struggling with debt repayments.  Its designed  for 
unsecured debts. Once the trust deed  is in place,  unsecured creditors  cant  take 
enforcement action. The borrower has to make payments until the term ends, usually four 
years. After this, the balance of any unsecured debts is written off.
The trustee contacted  Barclays  in 2012. Barclays provided the account balances for the 
mortgage and the MCA. I think  the fact that Mr and Mrs M were entering  into a trust deed 
would have been alerted  Barclays  to the possibility  they were  in financial difficulties. 
However, Mr and Mrs M werent in arrears with their mortgage in 2012  and theyve  been  up 
to date with payments since then. Theres no evidence  they told Barclays in 2012 that they 
were in financial difficulties or that they needed assistance. As Mr and Mrs M were  able to 
Ref: DRN75112242maintain their mortgage payments, Im not sure what assistance Barclays could reasonably  
have offered. 
Barclays has a note of a call in December 2013  with Mrs M. Mrs M said they didnt have 
financial difficulties and she was aware  the MCA would have to be repaid when the 
mortgage expires. She didnt tell Barclays theyd have difficulty  with this or ask for help. 
Barclays sends annual  statements to Mr and Mrs M which set out the outstanding mortgage 
balance and the balance owed (the overdraft)  on the MCA. So Mr and Mrs M would have 
been aware of the amount  owed and that it increased as interest was applied  to it.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage and MCA are secured and were  not included  in the trust deed. I 
can understand Mr and Mrs M disappointment  about this: if the MCA had been included in 
the trust deed  the debt would have now been  written  off. 
But I dont think Barclays misled Mr and Mrs M about this. I havent  seen  any evidence 
Barclays told Mr and Mrs M the debt was included in the trust deed or that it would be written  
off. And the terms of the MCA say the overdraft is secured on the property.
Mr and Mrs M now have  to consider  how they will repay the MCA overdraft debt, which has 
to be repaid before the mortgage term expires.  I appreciate that their financial circumstances 
might mean this is difficult. If this is the case, Id urge them to remain  in contact with Barclays 
and provide the information it needs to assess how it can help them. And Id expect Barclays 
to treat Mr and Mrs M fairly. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7511224