K821x#15Complaint
Mr W says he was badly advised  by an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd, which  
recommended he should  switch his Phoenix  Life and Friends  Life personal pensions into a 
new plan with Liverpool Victoria. He says this has left him worse off financially.
Background
Mr W dealt with MK Financial Planning Ltd. This was an appointed representative of Pi 
Financial. To keep  matters simple Ill refer to the latter in my decision because  its ultimately  
responsible for any acts and omissions  of its agent.
Mr W met with Pi Financial in April 2016.  He wanted  a review of his pension arrangements  
with Friends Life and Phoenix Life, to assess whether it would be appropriate  to switch his 
funds to another provider.
Its recorded that Mr W had a number of objectives in mind.  He wanted to investigate 
whether the administration  and management charges in his existing plans could  be reduced. 
He wanted his funds to be invested to maximise growth, in line with his risk appetite.  He also 
wanted to be able to access his pension  monies  more flexibly.
Mr W was said to require annual reviews  of his pension provision and for his fund to be 
monitored to ensure  his objectives  were  being met. He wanted to invest  in an alternative to 
his With Profits fund because hed been disappointed with returns in recent  years. He 
wanted to consolidate his arrangements.  And he wanted things to be cost-effective.
After following the advice process,  Pi Financial recommended that Mr W should  switch his 
existing personal  pension funds into a new plan with Liverpool Victoria. He accepted the 
proposal and between June and August 2016  funds from his former providers totalling 
around £36,000 were  switched. Around  the same time the advisers initial advice fee of 
about £1,100 was also deducted from his fund.
In June 2018 Mr W complained to Pi Financial about what had happened. He said the advice  
had effectively cost him around £6,000 because his new arrangement involved charges to 
switch, fees and resulted in lower investment growth. This outcome was at odds  with what 
hed been told by the adviser.
In responding  to Mr W, Pi Financial concluded that its advice  had been  suitable. It said the 
Liverpool Victoria plan it had recommended had lower charges than his previous pension 
plans and that it believed the prospects for growth  of his funds had been improved. 
However, it did find that the ongoing advisory  service hed been paying for hadnt been 
delivered. So, it made a proposal to refund the fees in settlement of his case.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ws case.  But Pi Financial disagreed. So, his complaint has been  
passed to me for review  and to issue a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN79357462Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration  of Mr Ws case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by Pi Financial for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven  Principles  for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Pi Financial. As 
such, I need to have  regard to them in deciding this case.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist  for pension  switching that 
I think is still helpful today.  It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In Mr Ws case,  Ill be focussing particularly on his circumstances and main objectives, as 
well as matters around  charges and the benefits he had under  his former arrangements.
Did Pi Financial meet its obligations to Mr W when it advised him to switch his personal 
pensions into a new plan?
In short,  I think the answer to this question is no. Ill explain  why Ive reached this conclusion.
Mr W was 49 years old at the time of the advice.  He was married with one dependent  child.  
He was working as a driving instructor on a self-employed basis.  The information gathered 
about his household income and outgoings, and his assets and liabilities is sparse.  I can see 
he owned his home  and had an outstanding  mortgage.
Ref: DRN79357463Mr W planned to retire  at 67. He had two personal  pensions, one with Friends  Life and 
another with Phoenix Life, these  had fund values at the time of £18,883 and £16,165  
respectively. Both were invested  in With-Profits  funds, and the Friends  Life policy had a 
reasonable expectation of 4% growth per annum. He wasnt  making payments into his 
pensions at the time.
Mr W had no investment  experience outside  of his personal pensions. These were his only 
retirement provision,  aside from any state pension entitlement. He doesnt appear  to have 
had any other savings or assets to fall back on, so his capacity for loss was low. Pi Financial 
assessed his attitude to risk and found he had a cautious outlook  (4 out of 10).
Pi Financial recommended Mr W transfer  his pension plans to a new arrangement  with 
Liverpool Victoria. He accepted the advice. On 23 June 2016 Friends Life wrote  to him 
confirming a payment  of £20,777 had been  switched to the new plan. And Phoenix Life 
wrote to him 10 August 2016  confirming £15,219  had been  transferred to his new policy.
One of Mr Ws main  objectives was to reduce  the fees and charges being applied  to his 
pension. His Friends Life plan had an annual management charge (AMC) of 0.75%. And his 
Phoenix Life pension  had implicit charges, which were expected to be around  1%. So taken 
at face value, the charges  of 0.38% on the Liverpool  Victoria  plan as recommended  by Pi 
Financial looked  attractive.
But part of the package of recommendations Pi Financial made included an ongoing  advice 
service. As it acknowledged in its final response to him in October 2018:
As you subscribed to MK Financial Planning ongoing service  proposition  there was an 
additional charge of 0.50% per year. If we add this on to the LV AMC that gives  a total 
annual charge of 0 88% which remains lower than the Phoenix plan and is only 0 13% 
higher than the Friends Life plan.
So, in terms  of the ongoing fees and charges Mr W would  incur in his new arrangement, 
these were broadly  neutral. But the impact of the switch of Mr Ws retirement fund was more 
significant. I say this because there was an initial advice fee to be paid to Pi Financial.  This 
was 3% of his fund value  and reduced  his modest  pension pot by around £1,100.
Further, by switching his Friends  Life policy  he had to pay an early surrender charge. 
Theres no evidence this was brought to his attention during the advice process.  In fact, in its 
final response to Mr W, Pi Financial said (bolding is my emphasis):
I can see from the documentation dated  25 April 2016 that there was indeed a surrender 
charge of £1,035.38 applied to the plan, which was not outlined  to you in the suitability 
report or replacement  contract form. That said, there was also a final bonus  payable of 
£2,784.05 which would  have enhanced the value of the pension  on transfer by 
approximately £1,700 (after deduction of the penalty).
Here Pi Financial conflates  two separate matters, the surrender charge and the final bonus 
payable. Mr W was incurring a charge of over £1,000 to switch his Friends  Life pension  a 
significant chunk  of his fund. There was no discussion of this penalty, even though early 
surrender charges and market value reductions  (MVRs) are a common feature of With-
Profits plans. The charge was netted  off in the suitability report   I think that made the 
analysis provided  misleading.
Ref: DRN79357464Considering the final bonus, if Mr W had retained  his plan its possible he wouldve received 
a higher payment in the future when  he came to take benefits from the plan. Again, theres 
no evidence this was discussed.
I think there are further problems with the advice  Pi Financial gave Mr W. The suitability 
report noted hed been disappointed  with the returns from his With-Profits funds and wanted 
his monies invested  in line with his attitude  to risk.
However, as the adjudicator found,  Mr Ws Friends Life plan provided a guaranteed  bonus 
each year. Pi Financial noted the following on its pension replacement  comparison form:
Guaranteed Bonuses - the Standard Life With Profit fund has a guaranteed growth rate of 
4% per annum. This means  that a bonus of 4% per year will be added to your fund. By 
transferring your fund you will give up this guarantee. There  are no guaranteed  growth  rates 
on the recommended fund so it is not a certainty that it will achieve  greater investment 
growth than your existing  fund.
Statements Ive seen from Friends Life indicate that the bonus  rate could go up or down. But 
it also said that since March 2003 the regular bonus rate for Mr Ws policy  had been 4% a 
year. So, I think this was a reasonable planning  assumption to make. It was a valuable  
feature of his existing  pension plan.
I can see Pi Financial made  Mr W aware  that he would lose the bonus rate on switching 
provider and he signed paperwork to confirm he understood this. But given his With-Profits 
fund was invested broadly in line with attitude to risk, giving up this benefit effectively 
increased the risk he was taking.
I note Pi Financial illustrated the annual fund growth  rates of -1.4%  (low), +1.6% (medium) 
and + 4.6% (high) to project fund outcomes comparing  his Friends  Life plan with the new 
arrangement. In doing this it failed to comment on the fact that his former plan already gave 
him reasonable assurance of growth  well in excess of the low and medium  projections. 
As long as the bonus did apply there was little chance of another cautious  risk investment  
plan matching or exceeding his Friends Life pension.
Id observe that the value  of Mr Ws Phoenix  pension on 30/04/14  was £13,989.  On 30/04/15 
it was £15,187.  The value of his Friends Life pension on 15/01/14 was £17,658. On 15/01/15  
it was £18,176.  Mr W had seen the total value of his pensions increase from £31,647 in early 
2014 to £35,048 by April 2016  an increase of nearly 11%.
I appreciate Mr W said he wanted to get a higher level of growth  from his pension plans, 
which is a common objective.  But given his funds had averaged returns of around £1,700 a 
year from 2014-2016, his pensions couldnt  reasonably have been said to be underachieving 
and the scope for any significant growth above  this without taking a higher level of risk was 
limited. Ive not seen  this was effectively conveyed to him.
Considering Mr Ws Phoenix Life pension, its been  confirmed that no MVR was applied to 
the funds when it was switched. The reduction  in value of the pension to around £15,200 at 
transfer was due to a change in the final bonus rate, which  couldve been applied  at any 
time. 
Ref: DRN79357465Pi Financial has said its projection  from 2016  showed that, at an assumed  annual growth 
rate of 2%, the Liverpool Victoria pension would return £18,900 at age 67, whereas the 
Phoenix Life scheme was only projected  to grow to £17,410. It says this was a clear benefit 
to Mr W and therefore made the recommendation appropriate.
The difference in growth  is predicated on Mr W starting to pay an annual adviser fee of 
0.5%. But if hed remained invested  with Phoenix Life, he wouldve had no need for annual  
reviews. I think  it was highly unlikely he wouldve taken an active role in managing this 
pension fund. So, I find the comparator projection  of £17,410  to be unrealistic.
The illustrations which Phoenix Life sent to Pi Financial in April 2016  showed the projected 
combined value  of the protected  and personal rights  elements of this pension wouldve been  
around £19,066 at age 67, based  on 2% growth per annum. Comparing this figure  with the 
projection for funds  under  a Liverpool Victoria plan with ongoing advice  - £18,900  shows 
higher growth  by transferring  was only one possible outcome and by no means a certainty.
Its also worth noting the projections for the Liverpool Victoria plan were based on the full 
amount of £16,157  being transferred and did not allow for a share  of the initial  3% advice 
charge. Applying  this deduction to the projection wouldve reduced the potential for growth 
still further.
Overall, the benefit  to Mr W of switching  his pension from Phoenix Life is neutral at best in 
terms of the potential for growth. When the additional level of risk being taken on by moving 
away from the With-Profits fund is taken  into consideration, its difficult to see how the advice 
would be suitable  for a cautious investor who had no other pension provision.
Theres a small  reduction in the level of ongoing charges, but not to any extent that it would 
make the transfer  worthwhile. And I dont  think  the switch of Mr Ws Phoenix  Life personal 
pension wouldve gone ahead if the Friends Life plan was not also being  switched.
Overall, it seems more likely than not, rather than reduce the fees and charges applied to Mr 
Ws pension provision,  Pi Financials recommendations meant hed incur higher costs.  
Mr Ws existing  plans largely met his investment risk appetite and provided some level of 
guaranteed growth not available from the new plan Pi Financial  recommended. So, he was 
being exposed  to more risk for arguably  a small chance of marginally  higher returns.
There wasnt any particular need  for Mr W to access to his funds flexibly   it was over five 
years before he could  first take benefits  from the plans. And in any event, he didnt intend to 
retire until age 67  17 years after the advice  provided.
So, Im not satisfied that Pi Financials advice  to Mr W to transfer  from his two personal 
pension plans into a new arrangement with Liverpool Victoria  was suitable. And its 
reasonable for me to require it to provide redress to him. 
The approach set out below will also settle the matter of the fees Mr W paid for an advice 
service he didnt receive, which Pi Financial has already agreed it should refund.
Ref: DRN79357466Putting matters  right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W as close  as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if hed been given suitable advice. Given his 
circumstances and objectives, I think he would most likely have remained in his existing 
pension plans. So, I require Pi Financial Ltd to compensate  Mr W in the following way:
Compare the performance of Mr Ws investment with that of the benchmark shown below.
If the fair value - what his investment wouldve been worth at the date of settlement had it 
produced a return using the benchmark  - is greater than the actual value  - the amount 
payable from his current plan at date of settlement  theres a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, Pi Financial should  pay compensation into Mr Ws pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  Payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  It shouldnt pay the compensation into his 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi Financial is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ws pension plan, it should pay the 
amount direct to him. Had it been  possible  to pay into his pension plan, it wouldve provided 
a taxable income.  So, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. This should be calculated using his actual 
or expected  marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to 
take a tax-free  lump  sum,  the reduction  should  be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Pi Financial  should pay Mr W £200 for the inconvenience hes experienced as a 
result of the things its got wrong.
Pi Financial should provide the details of the calculation  to Mr W in a clear, simple  format.
Ref: DRN79357467My final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding this complaint.  And I require Pi Financial 
Ltd to put things right by paying  the compensation Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7935746