K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that ReAssure Limited  guaranteed to pay out a minimum of 101% of the 
initial sum invested in its Preserve and Profit investment  policy (the sum assured), and that 
regular statements over many years confirmed this. He said ReAssure only recently  sought 
to claim that any pay-out  would be based  on the current surrender value, which it now said 
took account of the withdrawals hed made to date.
background
An adjudicator at this service  accepted  that ReAssure had repeatedly given Mr T misleading  
information about this issue but she felt he was only due the surrender value and not the 
original invested  sum/sum assured. Overall, she felt its offer of £500 in lieu of the trouble its 
mistakes had caused was fair and reasonable. On this basis she didnt feel Mr Ts complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr T did not agree, and said:
His policy has been in operation  for 19 years and yet no previous check  had 
highlighted the issue of the guaranteed  death benefit. How is it possible for it not to 
have noticed this before now?
If ReAssures recently  produced version of the key terms and conditions  dates from 
2001 why hasnt this been produced  before now?  He strongly believes it has just 
produced this version in order to try and justify its actions 
The version of the policy conditions attached to the Schedule is the only one with any 
legal standing when  the policy commences
What would be the point of an insurance  contract if a business could simply change 
the terms at will?
Theres no evidence that the recently  produced copy  was in operation when he took 
out the policy
This service seems  to be accepting everything  ReAssure says
The reality is ReAssure has chosen,  for some reason, to try and change  the terms of 
his contract to avoid  its financial  obligations
The policy itself is what provides the guaranteed  minimum death pay-out; the fact 
that units are attached  to it does not mean  the value of those units  represents  the 
surrender or death benefit value
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and mainly for the same reasons. So I will not repeat all the points  she made about the 
various letters and documents,  and her interpretation of them.
This policy, from what Ive read,  is no different from the hundreds  (thousands)  of similar 
policies sold by numerous providers over many  years. It is an investment policy  which allows  
for regular  income  withdrawals which come with certain tax advantages. Its ongoing value 
therefore fluctuates according  to any investment return/growth set against  the size of the 
withdrawals.
In Mr Ts case the withdrawals have far exceeded the modest investment returns, 
particularly in recent years, hence the value of the policy has fallen  by around a quarter from 
Ref: DRN79478702the original invested sum. This therefore  represents its current  surrender value. It is also, by 
definition, the amount  which would be paid out in the event of Mr Ts death. The surrender 
value and the death pay-out is the same (notwithstanding the 101% factor). It cannot be the 
case that a pay-out could be higher than the value  of the policy  at the time.  Therefore, I 
cannot uphold  Mr Ts complaint however  much  I agree that ReAssures statements have 
been repeatedly  misleading.
In this context, I do not believe that the plan was designed or set up to guarantee the original  
sum assured, and I think this is reasonably clear from the terms and conditions. In my view,  
there is no practical difference in meaning between the wording in the two copies of the 
relevant terms  one referring to the surrender value and the other  referring to the value of 
units then attaching to the policy. Both state, in different language,  that any pay-out would 
be based on the current value of the plan and not on its original  sum assured.
The fact that ReAssure repeatedly said something different doesnt alter the basic 
contractual terms. In this sense, I do not agree with Mr Ts interpretation of the terms and 
conditions.
I therefore can only instruct it to pay compensation for the understandable  trouble  and upset 
its mistakes have caused. As I feel its offer of £500   made  before Mr T brought his 
complaint to this service  - was not unreasonable, I cannot uphold this complaint
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7947870