K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about U K Insurance Limited.  He isnt happy  about the way it dealt with 
two claims under his commercial vehicle policy and the valuation  placed on his vehicles.
Although the claims and settlement were made  by UKIs agents, I will refer to UKI throughout 
this decision as it was ultimately responsible for the claim.
background
Mr S made two claims through  his insurance company after one of his drivers crashed two of 
his vehicles within a short space of time. UKIs  agent investigated  the claim and decided 
both vehicles were  economic write  offs. And after a prolonged  investigation UKI paid the 
market value of the vehicles.
Mr S complained to UKIs agents and then this service as he wasnt happy with the valuation  
of his vehicles,  the service provided and the delay in finalising the claim. Our investigator 
looked into things  for him but didnt  uphold his complaint. Although  he could understand 
Mr Ss position, he didnt think that UKI had done anything wrong. He thought  that UKIs 
enquiries and valuation was fair.
But Mr S didnt agree. He maintained that the valuations were  low; that UKI had drawn  out 
its investigation; that its service was poor;  and that its investigation  was intrusive.  So, the 
matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand how frustrating Mr S has found  the whole claim process and the fact it took 
a while  for UKI to finalise settlement. And the fact that he feels  his vehicles are worth a lot 
more than he has been offered. But having  looked  over the matter in detail I dont think UKI 
did anything wrong.  I know this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr S, but Ill explain why.
The circumstances surrounding  the two claims are far from straightforward. So I can 
understand why UKIs agent appointed a loss adjuster which  isnt unusual in circumstances 
like this. Given the third party couldnt be identified for the first claim, and the circumstances 
surrounding the second claim were  far from clear  I think UKI acted reasonably.
The loss adjuster interviewed  Mr S and asked for various details about the claim and the 
history of the vehicles  involved  including disputes around ownership.  I know  Mr S didnt feel 
this was appropriate, but I dont think UKI acted  unreasonably here. It simply  had questions  
about the circumstances surrounding  the two claims that needed answering  and I can 
understand why. 
I know the driver of Mr Ss vehicles had to go into hospital for major surgery  a short while  
after the incidents and it is likely his poor health contributed to the accidents. But insurers  
have a duty to satisfy  themselves about the circumstances surrounding  claims.  And I can 
understand why it appointed a loss adjuster,  whos enquiries were reasonable, in this 
instance.
Ref: DRN74847012Turning to the valuations of Mr Ss vehicles I think UKI has looked to provide a fair market 
value. Ill explain why.
This service doesnt look to value vehicles but looks to see if an insurer has acted in a fair 
and reasonable way in making  its valuations.  We often  rely on trade guides in looking to 
value vehicles but in this instance no such guides are available.  But UKI did consider the 
valuations that two engineers placed  on the vehicles in making its offers  which seems fair. 
I know Mr S expected to be paid more but he hasnt  been able to provide any details about 
the vehicles service history. He said that the vehicle had been serviced and its equipment  
maintained but he couldnt evidence this when UKI asked him about this. And the valuation  
details he provided  gave a general view of his type of vehicle. But they werent specific  to his 
vehicles which Id expect  them  to be, especially when he had the vehicles in his possession, 
and they were old with high mileage.
Furthermore, UKI has allowed Mr S to retain  the salvage of both vehicles  which it wasnt 
obliged to do. It could have looked  to have reduced the settlement figure by about 20% but it 
didnt. As UKI has paid more than the suggested  engineers valuations in any event, I cant 
say it has acted unfairly. I say this as valuing second hand commercial vehicles, such as 
Mr Ss, is very difficult, especially given  the age and high mileage of these vehicles.
Finally, I note that Mr S has said that he has incurred storage charges  for the time he had 
possession of the vehicles. But he didnt make  UKI aware of this and I agree with our 
investigator that UKI would have simply moved  the vehicles into its own free storage had it 
been made aware. So, I dont feel it would be fair to hold UKI responsible  for this. 
So, although  I agree  that the investigation  was drawn out, I cant say that UKIs actions were 
unreasonable or more than I would expect  them  to do. And although I can see that Mr S sent 
various pieces of documentation  that were required,  I cant  see any evidence  that UKI 
received the documents.  I just think it is unfortunate that the documents  werent received, 
and Ive not seen anything to suggest UKI delayed things. Indeed, it decided against  getting 
further evidence  that I would  ordinarily  expect it to get. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7484701