complaint
Mr A has complained about the advice he received from Westminster  Wealth  Management 
LLP (WWM)  to transfer his final salary pension scheme into a new Personal  Pension Policy 
(PPP). He said that he was advised that he no option but to transfer his pension.  Mr A also 
has concerns about being  left without an adviser  managing his investments for a period of 
time and his adviser gaining access to his pension accounts.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9 October 2020.  A copy is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I did not intend to uphold the 
complaint.
I have not received any further submissions from WWM.
Mr A did not accept the provisional decision. In summary he:
Referred to the adjudicator informing him that the outcome of his complaint was 
unlikely to change  if referred to an ombudsman.
The critical yield used by WWM was overly  optimistic and it would have been more 
reasonable to use the mid-point of the relevant assumptions.  The 7.1% rate is 
aggressive and highly unlikely to be achieved.  Whilst his pension was with WWM it 
did not achieve this amount of growth.
Does not agree with some of the findings  that have been made about his 
understanding. He was only a pension trustee for a few months and had no training 
or guidance  he resigned because it was far too complex  for him to understand.
He was pushed  into making a decision to transfer without knowing what he was 
signing up to.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that my findings  will be disappointing for Mr A and that they are different than 
the adjudicators. But that can be the result  of an independent review.  I have  explained why I 
reached by findings  in the provisional decision.  As the adjudicator said before the complaint 
was referred to me, the complaint would be reviewed and a different decision could be 
reached. The fact she said it was unlikely  does not mean that this does not happen.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN7040024With respect to the assumed critical yield or growth  rate required, I did discuss  that this was 
a significant rate to achieve but also commented  that it was within the range of reasonable 
growth rates at the time. The fact that this was not achieved whilst Mr A was a client  of 
WWM does not affect that. This is bearing in mind the evidence  that indicates  it was 
explained at the time that such  rates were  not guaranteed. I also said this was one factor  to 
take into account  and discussed the other factors which affected the outcome on the 
complaint.
I did note what Mr A had said about  his time as trustee and his level of understanding.  I did 
not say that I assumed that Mr A had a high level of technical understanding.  But I thought,  
on balance, that it was more likely that he could  appreciate the material  factors  that applied 
to the transfer.  That would include the growth rate to be achieve to equal benefits and the 
general nature of the guaranteed benefits being  given up. Whilst I appreciate  that Mr A has 
said he was pressurised into transferring, as I set out in the provision  decision,  the evidence  
does not support that or that Mr A could not make  an informed decision has to whether  to 
transfer or not.
My view of the complaint  remains  the same  as set out in the provisional  decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7040024copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr A has complained about the advice he received from Westminster Wealth  Management  LLP 
(WWM) to transfer his final salary pension scheme into a new Personal Pension Policy  (PPP). He 
said that he was advised that he no option but to transfer his pension.  Mr A also has concerns  about  
being left without  an adviser managing his investments for a period of time and his adviser gaining 
access to his pension accounts.
background
Mr A met with WWM  in January 2015. A Fact Find was completed  which noted he was 44, single, and 
employed as an HR Director  with a gross  annual salary of £75,000. He also received around £3,000 net 
rental income per month from his buy-to-let properties.
Mr A held retained benefits  within a previous employers  final salary (defined benefit) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS).
A recommendation was made by the business to transfer  his final salary benefits  to a new PPP, 
and Mr A accepted this recommendation, and completed application forms to proceed.
In August 2017 Mr A asked to meet with a new adviser from WWM,  and chased  up this request 
in October 2017. Shortly thereafter he complained to the business.
In his complaint,  Mr A said that he felt he had been forcibly persuaded  to transfer his final salary 
pension benefits  to a new PPP. He also complained  that his former adviser  had used his online 
login details to access his other pension  accounts,  and that the business had taken too long to 
assign a new adviser  to him.
WWM rejected  his complaint. They said that the recommendation to transfer his pension  was 
suitable and they did not believe he had been coerced into doing  so.
Mr A then brought his complaint  to this service.
An adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld.  She said that in her opinion 
the recommendation to transfer  Mr As final salary benefits to a PPP was unsuitable.  She also 
believed that WWM had not brought sufficient attention to the Pension Protection  Fund (PPF), which 
would likely pay pension  benefits if the scheme were  to wind up.
WWM did not agree with the adjudicator. It maintained that the advice to transfer was 
suitable. In summary it said:
Mr As knowledge  was relevant and he was aware of the risks of transferring out of a defined  
benefit scheme. He acted as a trustee of a defined benefit scheme and so would be aware of 
the relevant factors  and risks. This would include the protection if the pension scheme  were  
wound up.
The advice was suitable. It appreciated that Mr A had another money  purchase pension 
schemes which he could access at 55. However  Mr A had assets of around
£1.3 million and a salary  of £75,000. As the OPS  pension  was such a small part of
Ref: DRN7040024his assets, it was not unreasonable for Mr A to look to better  the amount he would receive  
from the scheme.
Mr A was only to receive (a pension) of about £3,000 a year from the defined  benefit  
scheme.
Mr A preferred the freedom of being able to draw funds when he liked rather than receive 
a small amount each year.
As Mr A was 44 his pension had plenty of time to grow and exceed the benefits 
provided under the previous scheme.
It did not make comments  about the OPS being wound up or any lack of security. The 
reasons for the transfer were  as set out in the suability  report   lack of flexibility of the OPS,  
lack of control and low growth rate.
It disputes the use of the critical yield for judging  pension performance.  The point to consider 
is whether the advice  was suitable based on the individuals attitude torisk.
The Pension Protection Fund was brought to Mr As attention.
The OPS benefits were not guaranteed  and were  affected by the deficit  in the scheme, the 
fortunes of the company in a competitive market and the actions of the owner  towards 
previous pension  schemes.
The complaint has now been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As outlined in the adjudicators decision, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) places the 
emphasis on the business  to demonstrate why a transfer  away from a final salary  scheme  is 
suitable. This is because the starting point for any advice in this area is that a transfer is likely  to  
be unsuitable.
Its noted that the projected benefits for Mr A from the scheme  were a pension of about
£2,900 a year,  paid from age 60 and payable for the remainder of his life. In lieu of this, the 
scheme offered  a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of about £95,000, including an 
enhancement that was being  offered by the scheme of about £24,000.
Its further noted that the scheme was significantly in deficit at the time, although  the CETV  
paperwork states that it was not in wind up.
WWM issued a suitability report dated 19 January 2015 in which  the adviser  set out his 
recommendations. This recorded that Mr A was soon to be made redundant.
It was recorded that his main priority was:
To review your pension provision and look at the opportunity  presented by the retained benefits of 
your previous employer (OPS) who are offering an enhanced transfer value. This
Ref: DRN7040024has increased  from £70,838 to £94,782,  which is part of the (OPS)  recovery plan to reduce on 
going liabilities in the future.
It was recorded that Mr A had about £250,000 in other pensions,  £80,000 in various  bank 
accounts and a buy-to-let  property portfolio,  worth £1.2 million (with mortgages of about
£770,000). He was recorded as having a balanced  attitude to risk (6 on a scale of 1 to 10). The 
advisers recommendation was:
We discussed the various ways you could achieve  your present objectives  as outlined above and 
the fact that transfers  from defined benefits schemes are generally not considered to be in the best 
interests of members. I recommend that you consider a transfer of benefits  from the (OPS) to a 
Personal Pension with Aviva  Wrap.
Options were then discussed:
Leave the plan where it is with (OPS) - I would  dismiss due to the lack of flexibility and 
control of your investments and the anticipated growth rate.
Transfer the scheme to a section 32 buyout  bond, this is similar  to a Personal Pension 
Policy. However,  it differs slightly  as it is designed to have the same Inland Revenue  rules 
as a company pension  although still have the individual control like a personal  plan. The 
main reason for using  one of these policies is for protection of a tax free cash  allocation that 
is greater  than 25% - I would dismiss  due to the lack of flexibility and control  of your 
investments. Your tax free cash allocation is much smaller and remains under  the company 
pension regime.
Transfer the scheme into a Stakeholder plan - A stakeholder plan is a personal pension  
plan with a cap placed on charges but usually a limited  fund range. I would dismiss  due to 
the lack of fund selection, flexibility and control  of your investments.
Transfer the plan into the personal  pension/self-invested personal pension  plan (SIPP) 
arena - I believe this option would be most appropriate, allowing you to take control of your 
pension investments  and access  to a huge variety of investments. You already hold 
investments with Aviva Wrap and you are eager to have all of your pensions and 
investments under one roof for ease of management.
The adviser  also said:
I would recommend that you transfer your benefits to a Personal Pension Plan based on your 
current circumstances, and the results of the Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report.
It is noted that Mr A did not have any dependants  so death benefits were not of primary 
importance.
It is then set out that:
Security of Pension Funds
You have  a major concern over the security  of your pension as although you believe (employer) to 
be financially secure  the pension fund is only 63% funded and has a recovery plan in place.
However, assuming the recovery plan is successful the pension is not
Ref: DRN7040024scheduled to be self-sustaining until 2026.  You feel uncomfortable about the future  security of your 
pension fund.
Part of the recovery plan is to reduce on going liabilities on the fund for the future  hence  the 
enhanced cash equivalent  transfer value  from £70,838 to £94,782 now available.
And:
Pension Protection Fund
Whilst you are a member of your final salary pension scheme, if your employer becomes insolvent 
and there  are not enough assets in the pension scheme to cover the level of compensation  that the 
Pension Protection Fund would provide,  the Pension Protection Fund may compensate you in the 
following ways (provided  the pension  scheme is accepted by the Pension Protection Fund):
1.If you have  reached  the normal pension  age set by your pension  scheme or, irrespective  of age, 
are either already  in receipt of a survivors pension or a pension  on the grounds of ill health,  the 
Pension Protection Fund will generally  pay a level of 100%  compensation. This normally means a 
starting level of compensation  equal  to 100%  of the pension in payment immediately before the 
assessment date. The part of this compensation that comes  from pensionable service  on or after 6 
April 1997  will be increased each year in line with inflation capped at 2.5%.  This could, potentially,  
result in a lower rate of increase than the scheme would have provided.
2.For the majority  of people below their schemes normal  pension age the Pension Protection  Fund 
will generally  pay a 90% level of compensation. This generally  means  90% of the pension  accrued 
(including revaluation) immediately before  the assessment  date and revaluation in line with the 
increase in the inflation rate between the assessment date and the start of the compensation 
payments (revaluation is capped  at 5% compound per annum  for compensation relating to 
pensionable service prior to 6 April 2009, and capped at 2.5% compound per annum for compensation 
relating to pensionable  service on or after 6 April 2009. This compensation is subject to an overall 
annual cap, which, for the year commencing  6 April 2012,  equates to £30,644.86 at age 65 after the 
90% has been applied (the cap is adjusted according to the age at which compensation  comes into 
payment). Once  compensation is in payment, the part that relates  to pensionable service  on or after 6 
April 1997  will be increased each year in line with inflation, capped at 2.5%. Again, this could result  in 
a lower rate of increase  than the scheme would have provided.
And:
You should fully understand that on transferring your benefits  from the (OPS)  the guarantees that 
you currently  enjoy will cease to apply.  Your  benefits will instead become  dependent upon the future  
investment returns achieved by the underlying investments selected within your Personal  Pension 
Plan, and annuity rates at the time of retirement  and could be less than under your employers former 
scheme. It may also not be possible to fully replicate the shape/type of benefits your former scheme  
promised due to lack of availability in the market place. This is acceptable to you given your attitude 
in relation to your pension.
A note of certain risks is included:
Risks
Ref: DRN7040024The Key Features Document  also provides you with details of any risks and potential 
disadvantages associated  with the contract  recommended. We have previously  discussed these, 
and I would like to highlight  the following  points:
Past performance is no guarantee  of future returns.
The price of units and the income  from them can fall as well as rise.
The value of a unit-linked investment is not guaranteed and on encashment you may not get 
back the full amount invested.
This investment is intended as a long-term  investment  and under current HM Revenue & 
Customs practice it is not normally possible to access the fund(s)  prior to the age of 55.
Your eventual income in retirement may be less than that which would have been available under 
your previous  employers arrangement.
Following the transfer, unless you direct that the death benefits be paid to your own estate,  it is 
possible that, should you die in the 2 years  after the transfer,  an Inheritance Tax liability  could arise.
In the event  that your employment  status  changes, we would recommend that your 
retirement planning is reviewed.
I note that there  were  email exchanges between WWM and Mr A. In one such  email Mr A says that 
he might like the option  of taking some  pension  benefits at age 55. In an email of 4 February  2015 
the WWM adviser emailed Mr A and said:
Therefore, I am writing  now to reiterate the most pertinent point  of all: that should  your transfer 
be effected  on February 21, that you will be moving away from a scheme which provides  a 
guaranteed level of income at retirement with no personal investment risk to a more flexible 
arrangement where you personally  take on the investment  risk.
And:
Once the transfer  is effected it may not be reversed (although you may move from the Aviva pension 
to another as confirmed above).
(Another WWM  adviser) and I are confident that what we are proposing is well suited to the 
circumstances and objectives you have described, particularly that you would like to retire at age 55; 
but I would recommend  that if we have failed  to fully satisfy you in respect of the pros and cons  so 
that you feel you are making an informed  decision to follow our advice that you should not proceed 
with this transfer.
I am very happy to answer any questions that remain  outstanding to allow you to make that 
informed decision.
Mr A does also refer in emails to feeling rushed and having  to complete a lot of paperwork  at a 
meeting. He asks for clarity on a few points including whether he can do his own trading.
the suitability of the pension transfer
The FCA provides guidelines as to the considerations they expect  when recommending transfers 
from final salary  schemes,  and one of these  is the Critical  Yield. As such, I do not agree with 
WWMs submissions  that this is not an important factor  to take into account when considering a 
transfer. The regulator requires that critical  yield is taken into account  and I agree that the rate at 
which a personal pension fund would  have  to increase to match the benefits given up, is an 
important factor. There would be little point in
Ref: DRN7040024completing a critical yield calculation otherwise. This matter is relevant to the suitability of the 
advice.
The critical yield calculated in this case, which  is the annual amount  required by the new scheme  
to provide equal benefits  to the transferring scheme, was calculated as 5.6%,  assuming Mr A 
retired at age 56 and 7.1% if he was to take benefits at 60.
This matter  was commented upon by WWM:
The critical yield needed to match your existing  benefits normal retirement  at
age 60 is 7.1 % pa, should you take full pension  and 6.1 % pa should you take maximum tax free 
cash with a lower pension, which  is the rate of annual growth which  would need to be achieved by the 
Insurance Company  to mirror the benefits being  offered  by your occupational scheme. This,  in my 
opinion, is an achievable return, based on the term to retirement.  You should  be aware that there is no 
guarantee of future growth  and it is possible  that your eventual  pension may be reduced under this 
route.
Whilst these  are significant rates of annual positive  performance to assume, at the time the FCA 
set reasonable assumed  rates for future growth for pensions of 2% (low), 5% (mid) and 8% 
(high). So the rates of future growth to be achieved  were  not materially out of line with what could 
be reasonably  expected.
But this is not the only consideration and the situation has to be looked  at bearing in mind all the 
circumstances.
Mr A has said he approached WWM because he wanted to review the situation with his 
pensions  which included the OPS. I can see why this would be  Mr A was leaving his 
employer and his, then, OPS. That OPS was in a significant deficit situation. My understanding 
is that there was also wider  comment  about the employers relationship with its pension scheme 
and its overall security  (notwithstanding the protection provided by the PPF). So I can see why 
Mr A might  have been  concerned with the situation and why he might wish to consider 
transferring. As discussed,  this is a concern that the advisers suitability report refers  to. A 
transfer was also more  attractive at that time because of the significant enhancement  being 
offered by the pension scheme.
I believe the advisers report  did set out the material factors and that, broadly  speaking, a given 
investment performance  would be required  by the new plan to match  the benefits given  up. It 
explained that guaranteed benefits were being  given up. In terms of those benefits  it was indicated 
that the dependants benefits provide by the OPS were not an important factor  as Mr A did not 
have any dependants  and his partner did not need providing for. Flexibility  was noted as being an 
advantage  allowing Mr A to take benefits at 55 and in the manner which he wanted.
Whilst I appreciate  that Mr A has said that there was a lot of technical detail he did not understand 
and I agree that there is a lot of information to take on board, I believe that it is likely that he could 
appreciate the material factors. That is that he was giving  up on a guaranteed level of benefit  for an 
as yet unknown level of benefit   but with associated  advantages in terms of control, ownership and 
flexibility. This was not only included in the report but highlighted in emails sent specifically  to Mr A. I 
also should take into account  that for a period (including the period when the advice was given),  Mr 
A was a pension trustee of a pension scheme. Whilst I have taken into account what  he has said 
about his technical  knowledge of investments and the period for which he was a trustee, I do 
believe
Ref: DRN7040024that such a role is likely to have made Mr A more  aware  of the general factors affecting pensions 
and given him greater knowledge about the factors applying to the OPS. I do not assume that he 
had a high level of technical  knowledge but that he would be more likely able to appreciate the 
nature of the benefits he was giving up and what could be gained by transferring.
I also appreciate  that Mr A says he felt rushed and bullied into transferring and that he was told 
this was the only option.  There  will be some element of haste because the CETV is only 
guaranteed for three months  including  the enhancement. But, in any event, the nature of the 
emails I have seen is that the WWM advisers were  offering to explain any relevant factors  or 
matters Mr A did not understand  I have not seen any evidence that they were  placing undue  
pressure on Mr A to transfer. The nature of the communications and what  is included in the 
advisers report does not indicate that Mr As only option was to transfer or that he had to do so. 
So whilst I appreciate what Mr A has said  that is not supported by the evidence.
Overall I do not believe WWMs advice was likely unsuitable. The transfer was not, on the face of it, 
inappropriate given all the circumstances. In arriving  at this finding I have  noted that these  pension 
benefits made  up less than a third of accumulated pension funds and Mr A also had considerable 
holdings in property which he let. So he was not materially reliant  on this pension. I also believe Mr A 
could appreciate the material factors affecting the choice between retaining  guaranteed  benefits of 
the defined benefit scheme and transferring to a money purchase  arrangement in the form of his 
personal pension. I believe this was a transfer he was likely willing  to accept  based on the overall  
merits.
I have also considered Mr As points of complaint about the advisers access  to his pension details 
and the provision of an adviser in 2017. However I agree  with the adjudicator  as to these issues.  I 
agree with the adjudicator that there is no evidence  that the advisers access has disadvantaged  Mr 
A or that the provision of a designated adviser for what  was a short period  of time has materially 
disadvantaged him.
my provisional  decision
I do not intend  to uphold the complaint or make any award.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7040024