K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Target Servicing Limited  provided poor customer  service when she 
wanted it to agree to a transfer of equity on her help to buy loan.
background
Miss M held both a mortgage and the help to buy loan jointly with another party.  She wanted 
to take over the responsibility for all the borrowing herself. She complains that Target  did not 
respond to her solicitors  requests about  the transfer of equity. And that it caused delays. 
Target paid her £25 in compensation and offered to increase this to £100  when  the 
complaint was referred to this service.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  and that Miss M be paid total 
compensation of £200. She said that Target  had not been able to show  it had provided   
Miss Ms solicitors with the information  requested. And it had not told Miss M for two months 
that a cheque sent to it had not been  correctly addressed.
Target did not agree. It had sent the legal pack to the solicitors but had not received a 
response. The cheque sent had been  incorrectly addressed.  There was fault on both sides  
and the amount now offered was sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to set out a timeline  of what I consider the key events here:
-23 February 2018 - Target sent a legal pack to Miss Ms solicitors.
-2 August 2018 - the solicitors write  to Target saying that the first charge holder 
providing the mortgage has agreed to the transfer of equity and asking for Targets 
requirements. The solicitors say that the legal pack does not seem to apply to this 
type of transfer  and ask for clarification.
-3 August 2018 - Target writes  to say it only needs the solicitors details and a fee of 
£50 - it provided bank  details for payment.
-10 August 2018 - the solicitors  details form is sent with a cheque  for £50
-22 August 2018 - Target says it sent the legal pack  again but it cannot provide 
evidence of this.
-18 October 2018 - Miss Ms solicitors request  an update  from Target saying it has 
had not a response since 10 August  2018  and is waiting for a deed of release.
-23 October 2018- Target writes to say it only needs the administration  fee.
-24 October 2018 - Target writes to say it was unable to accept the cheque as it was 
not correctly addressed.  That day the complaint is raised  and the fee is sent by bank 
transfer.
Target said in its final response letter that Miss Ms account had not been set up correctly  
when the first enquiry was raised  in February  2018. It said that this caused issues  with any 
mail. When the £50 cheque was sent it was filed into an offline folder  for the account  and 
not reviewed and uploaded as a payment. It agreed  that this caused a delay in it telling   
Miss M that the cheque was incorrectly addressed. It has said to this service that all 
correspondence was uploaded in October 2018.
Ref: DRN73528432Although Target  shows in its own timeline  of what happened that it sent the legal pack  again  
on 22 August 2018, its contact notes only record this as being sent on 22 October 2018 - 
that is after further contact from Miss Ms solicitors. Those solicitors clearly asked on 2 
August 2018 what was required  as they said they did not think that the original legal pack  
sent was applicable.
I appreciate that Miss Ms solicitors did not contact Target again until October 2018. And that 
they did not follow the instructions given  for the online payment of the fee. However, I find 
that Target did not make clear what its requirements were and gave the impression that all it 
was waiting for were  documents that the solicitors did provide. With that in mind I can 
understand why Miss Ms solicitors were  waiting for a response even though Targets 
position is that it wanted a completed legal pack.
Im not persuaded on balance that even if the cheque had been correctly  addressed  any 
action would have  been taken until the contact from Miss Ms solicitors in October 2018. I 
find that Target caused Miss M distress  and inconvenience at a difficult personal time for 
her. Ive taken into account our published  guidelines about this. In my judgement total 
compensation of £200 is the appropriate amount to reflect Targets actions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Target Servicing Limited to pay     
Miss M a total of £200 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7352843