K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Santander  UK Plc gave them  unclear information  about 
changing mortgage products. They ask for compensation for their costs and distress.
background
Mr and Mrs G have a mortgage  with Santander. Their mortgage product  was coming to an 
end in November  2018. They chose a new product online and Santander sent a mortgage 
offer, which they accepted.
Mr and Mrs G say the information Santander  gave  them on the phone and online was 
misleading. They say it didnt tell them theyd need to allow time for the product transfer to 
be processed. As a result, a higher interest rate was applied  to their mortgage  for a few 
days. And they say the product information  was misleading. They chose a two year product 
which is actually for two years and three  months.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said Santander 
made Mr and Mrs G aware of the date their mortgage product ended  and that its standard 
variable rate would apply  after this. It also made  them aware that theyd need to select  and 
accept a product  offer. It didnt delay Mr and Mrs Gs application for a new product. The date 
that the new product ended was made clear to them.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. Mrs G said it wasnt clear that the product term is two years and 
three months until theyd  gone through numerous stages and were near completion. This 
made it difficult to compare it with rates offered by other providers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Gs fixed rate mortgage product ended on 2 November 2018. They wanted to 
take out a new product.
Mrs G says she called Santander and was told the new product rate would apply as soon as 
they accepted the new product offer. Mrs G says Santander didnt explain there was a 
difference between  selecting and accepting an offer. She says she wasnt  told to allow time 
for the transfer  process.  
Mr and Mrs G selected  a new product online on 2 November 2018. Santander sent a 
mortgage offer on the next working  day  5 November 2018. Santander also sent electronic 
messages to Mr and Mrs G on 5 November 2018  saying  the offer was ready for them to 
review and accept online.  
Mr and Mrs G accepted  the offer on 8 November 2018 and the product transfer was effective 
from that date. 
Ref: DRN70446752I dont think Santander  caused any delays in processing Mr and Mrs Gs product transfer.  It 
needed to send Mr and Mrs G the mortgage offer to ensure they had information about the 
product before they accepted the terms of the product.
Mrs G provided  a copy of the table  she viewed online setting out a summary of Santanders  
fixed rate mortgage  products. While in the table the product  is described  as two year  
theres further information which includes  the product end date. I dont agree that Mrs G 
needed to go through  numerous  stages or wait until the transfer was near completion to find 
the product end date. 
Mrs G used an online mortgage  quote  when she selected a new product. The mortgage 
quote set out the product  end date. The mortgage  quote says its for illustrative  purposes 
only. It says if Mr and Mrs G decide to proceed the product transfer  offer will be based on the 
most up to date information Santander has. It says the product transfer offer should be read 
in full before  making a final decision.  So I think  Mrs G was made  aware that selection of a 
new product wasnt the end of the process.  She was made  aware that Santander would  
send her a product transfer offer which shed need  to read before deciding whether to accept 
the product.  
I havent seen  anything to suggest Santander misled Mr and Mrs G about  the process for a 
product transfer  or the end date of the product they chose.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7044675