K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps car was stolen  and was written off. Hes unhappy that Aviva Insurance  Limited  (Aviva)  
didnt pay the full pre-accident value (PAV) to settle the claim.
background
Mr P had a car under a personal lease agreement. The terms of this agreement meant he 
didnt own the car, and wouldnt  automatically  own it at the end of the agreement. The car 
was stolen in November 2018 and Aviva assessed  the PAV to be £11,554. But, when they 
settled the claim, they only paid £8,384.24 - the amount owing on the lease agreement,  less 
the amount of Mr Ps policy excess (the settlement amount).
Mr P has complained that Aviva didnt pay the full PAV less the policy excess - £11,204. 
Hes said that his policy terms  meant Aviva should  pay a cash amount equal to the loss or 
damage if his car was stolen and written off.
Aviva have said that Mr P didnt own the car, the lease company did. Theyve also said that 
his policy  states  if we know  your vehicle is still being paid under a hire purchase or leasing 
agreement we will pay any claims to the owner  described in that agreement.  Because of 
this Aviva didnt think theyd done  anything  wrong.
Mr P was unhappy with Avivas response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Our adjudicator  found  that Aviva  had acted 
reasonably. He said theyd settled the claim in line with the terms of Mr Ps policy,  and he 
didnt think they should do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicator. He says that the lease company didnt ask Aviva for 
the settlement  amount,  but he provided  this information to Aviva. He also says that other 
insurers would pay the PAV,  and not just the settlement amount, so he believes Aviva 
should also pay this.
Mr P has referred to information  on the Financial Ombudsman Service website  which says:
Most policyholders  assume  that their insurance  policy will enable them to replace 
with a similar vehicle a car that has been  stolen or damaged beyond  repair.  Our 
approach mirrors this. We want to see firms making  a reasonable assessment of the 
cars market  value   and then paying  this amount. The market  value  is the likely 
cost to the customer of buying a car as near as possible identical to the one that has 
been stolen or damaged beyond economic repair.
He thinks that any decision made  by the Financial Ombudsman Service  should be in line 
with this information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN70325832The terms of Mr Ps car insurance policy allowed Aviva to conduct  the claim,  and gave them 
full discretion to agree  a settlement. Because of this Aviva didnt need Mr Ps agreement or 
approval to the settlement amount.
Ive seen the terms of Mr Ps insurance  policy with Aviva. I agree with Mr P that these say 
Aviva will pay a cash amount equivalent  to the loss or damage if a car is lost or stolen. But 
the terms also say that Aviva will settle any claim with the leasing company, as theyre the 
legal owner of the car  Mr P was just renting it from them  for a fixed  term. So I dont think  
Aviva did anything wrong by paying  the leasing company  instead  of Mr P.
I appreciate Mr P feels the full PAV hasnt been  paid,  but Aviva  had the right to settle the 
claim without  Mr Ps agreement. And the leasing  company, as the owners of the car, 
accepted an amount to clear off the outstanding lease. Ive noted  Mr Ps comments  that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  would expect Aviva to pay the market  value  in this case  the 
PAV  but any amount  paid would always have gone to the leasing company. If the leasing 
company think Aviva  have  underpaid them for the car, its for them  to raise this with Aviva.
Mr P has also said that other  insurance companies dont distinguish  between a lease and a 
hire purchase agreement,  and they wouldve paid the PAV regardless. But different 
insurance companies have different terms, and charge  different premiums  because of this. 
My decision  is concerned with the policy Mr P had with Aviva, and Aviva paid the lease  
company the settlement amount in line with the terms of this policy.  And if Aviva had paid the 
lease company more  than the settlement amount, as owners of the car they wouldve been  
entitled to keep this excess  Mr P wasnt the owner  of the car so he wouldnt have been 
entitled to the excess.
The leasing  agreement gave Mr P the option  to extend the lease term, or to buy the car at 
the end of the original lease term. Mr P says he was in the process  of buying the car from 
the leasing company.  But he hadnt signed  any paperwork agreeing to buy the car, so this 
doesnt alter my view that Aviva didnt do anything wrong by dealing with the leasing 
company, and paying them the settlement amount direct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Aviva  Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7032583