K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  initially  raised  a number of issues,  however it is now mainly  about 
commission charged in her trading account with Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management  
Limited (Hargreaves).  She says commission was overcharged. She is represented by her 
husband, Mr W, who also appears  to have been involved in conducting the account.
background
The relevant  trading  activity was in currency transactions. Both parties agree that, at 
the outset around March 2016,  Hargreaves quoted a commission  rate of between 
0.3% and 0.4% above the spot rate for each transaction.
Mr W says he considered, on Mrs Ws behalf,  this spread too wide and that he 
negotiated  and agreed  with Hargreaves a commission cap of 0.3%, given the 
prospect that the total value of transactions would be around  £1 million. The present 
complaint arises from this. In 2018  Mr W essentially conducted an audit of the 
commission charges applied to transactions between 2016  and 2018  and discovered 
that a number of them  were  above  0.3%. He has presented a body of evidence  
showing interactions between himself and Hargreaves during this period  which,  he 
asserts, shows that both parties  expressly and/or implicitly understood and accepted 
that the special 0.3% commission rate was agreed for the account and was to apply  
to transactions  in the account. 
The complaint  alleges that this arrangement was breached  by Hargreaves, based on 
evidence of commission charges  above  the alleged special rate which were applied  
to transactions  in the account. Mrs W wants the excess commission to be refunded  
and compensation  for the trouble and upset the matter has caused  her. On her 
behalf, Mr W also asserts that they have cause to request verification that the correct 
spot rates were  used for the relevant transactions, otherwise use of the wrong  spot 
rates (if above  the correct  ones) could have  compounded Mrs Ws financial loss.
It does not appear to be in dispute  that commission  rates  above 0.3% were applied  to 
the relevant transactions  between 2016 and 2018. A calculation  in this respect 
appears to have been shared between  the parties. Hargreaves  dispute is about the 
alleged special rate, it does  not accept it was agreed  or, in the alternative,  it does 
not accept it was binding. It says it operated  a tiered  commission  structure, that it 
was entitled to apply commission to Mrs Ws transactions between  the 0.3%  to 0.4%  
range and that the charges in all, but two, of the relevant transactions  are within this 
range. It acknowledges that the commission rate was wrongly beyond this range  on 
two occasions   on 14 September 2016 and on 12 July 2018  but says it has 
already addressed this by revising the rates for the transactions  (to fall in line with the 
range) and by compensating Mr W for the differences.
One of our investigators  considered  the matter and was not quite persuaded by 
evidence that the alleged  special rate was agreed after the initial  notice of the 0.3% 
to 0.4%  range.  She also considered  that Hargreaves had done enough to redress the 
two transactions  for which commission was applied beyond this range. The 
investigators view was reasoned, but Mr W, on Mrs Ws behalf, did not accept  it. He 
also did not accept  her explanation that the trouble  and upset  he had subjectively 
described could  not be compensated for, as this service  does  not normally  
compensate representatives  in this respect. 
Ref: DRN70750082The matter was referred to an ombudsman. I conducted a preliminary review of the 
complaint. I agreed with the investigators  view in terms of the strength of evidence in 
support of application of the 0.3% to 0.4% commission  range. However,  I considered 
that there is stronger  overall evidence from the interactions between  Mr W and 
Hargreaves that he was led to believe the special rate had been agreed and was to 
apply to transactions in the account. 
I agreed with the investigator in terms of the lack of a basis  to compensate Mr W for 
trouble and upset  he appears to have described subjectively, given that he is a 
representative in the matter. However, I considered  that there is a basis to 
compensate Mrs W, the complainant, in this respect  on the basis  of trouble and upset 
she had been  caused.
The investigator assisted me in sharing  my initial thoughts  with both parties  and in 
inviting their comments. They were also told that I am minded to uphold  the 
complaint, in the absence of persuasive evidence  to the contrary of those  thoughts. 
Mr W essentially agreed with my initial thoughts  and repeated  some  of his previously 
stated arguments  to reinforce his agreement. Hargreaves  disagreed. It said that at no 
point was Mr W told there  would  be a 0.3% cap on commission for transactions in the 
account; that evidence of the only arrangement it had with him is that of the 0.3% to 
0.4% commission range;  that this range, in itself,  was offered as a gesture to him and 
it was under no obligation to do so; that if Mr W believed the 0.3% cap applied  he 
had the opportunity to verify  this over the telephone  as or before he placed  the 
relevant transactions; and that it cannot  find telephone recording evidence  that Mr W 
was ever told a 0.3% capped rate would be applied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including  both parties  comments 
on my initial  thoughts  to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I have not been  persuaded to alter my initial  thoughts and I 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
The investigator conveyed, to both parties,  my initial thoughts  as follows:
[The] case has now been assigned to an ombudsman and Im getting in touch to let you 
know his initial thoughts. 
My present view is that even though the commission  rates applied to the trades were within 
the 0.3% to 0.4% range that was confirmed at the outset,  overall/on balance I think the 
interactions between  both sides thereafter  and between  2016 and 2018 show that [Mr W] 
genuinely expected the 0.3% cap (and thought it was being applied,  until he audited the 
account in 2018 and learnt otherwise) and, importantly, that [Hargreaves] seemingly 
understood the same whenever  it interacted  with [Mr W] (but then did something different  for 
the trades). In the absence of persuasive  evidence to the contrary, Im minded to uphold the 
complaint; to ask [Hargreaves] to provide a calculation of the individual and total rates 
actually applied (including confirmation of the relevant spot rates   which  [Mr W] has 
questioned  and the additional commission rates that applied), to compare that calculation 
with the individual and total rates that ought  to have been applied  based on the 
accurate/correct spot rates  and the 0.3% cap and to pay the difference  in compensation; and 
to ask [Hargreaves] to pay £250 for the trouble and upset that seems reasonable to 
Ref: DRN70750083conclude for [Mrs W] in terms of the commission matter itself,  which  relates directly to her 
account.
My initial thoughts were  based on the following:
Telephone call related  evidence covering transactions on 12 different dates between  
21 July 2016 and 12 July 2018; with individual transaction  values ranging  from 
£4,000 to just under  £300,000.
On nine of these dates, the existence  of an agreement  on the commission  rate was 
mentioned or acknowledged between both parties and on four of those nine dates 
the capped rate of 0.3%  was mentioned. Within this body of evidence, Mr W was not 
expressly told that a higher rate would apply and he appears to have been left with 
the impression  that the special rate would apply. On the occasions  that he expressly 
mentioned the 0.3% capped rate Hargreaves did not dispute  it and it sometimes  
commented that Mr Ws reference  to the special rate (and to 0.3%)  was consistent 
with what had been applied in previous transactions. Despite Hargreaves comments, 
it later transpired that commission on some  of those previous transactions had not 
been capped at 0.3%.
Before trading began in the account  Mr W wrote to Hargreaves on 10 July 2016, in 
which he expressly referred to the special 0.3% capped  rate. Hargreaves responded 
to him the following  day and did not dispute  this reference. Mr W says Hargreaves  
assured him that a note will be placed in the account to reflect  this special rate. 
Documentary evidence  of this note has not been produced.  On balance and given 
the wider evidence in the case,  I am persuaded that Mr W was given this assurance.
It is not suggested that Hargreaves  was obliged to give Mrs Ws account a special 
commission rate, or that it did not have discretion in the matter.  
The point is that there  is sufficient  evidence that Hargreaves exercised its discretion, in the 
context of negotiation with Mr W (on behalf  of Mrs Ws account) at the outset, to apply the 
special 0.3%  capped commission rate to the account; that it gave cause for Mr and Mrs W to 
rely on the special  rate and prompted them to proceed with the account  (and with trading in 
the account);  and that it acknowledged  and/or  affirmed (expressly  and implicitly) to Mr W a 
number of times between  2016 and 2018  that the agreement and/or special (capped) rate 
continued to apply to the account. 
On this basis, it is fair and reasonable to expect Hargreaves to have honoured the 
agreement to apply  the special (capped)  rate and, now,  to expect it to redress  Mrs W for 
every occasion/transaction in which it did not do so. It is also fair and reasonable for her to 
be compensated in the amount of £250  for the trouble and upset caused to her by the 
matter. As mentioned  in my initial thoughts, I also consider that Mr W makes a legitimate 
request for Hargreaves to verify and confirm the spot rates  applied  to the transactions   in 
the course of calculating  the excess commission payments that have been made and that 
should be refunded to Mrs W. Hargreaves committed errors in applying  its commission  rates, 
it is not implausible that errors could also have  been  made in applying the spot rates for the 
transactions, so this too should be properly checked  with reference to reliable spot rate 
evidence for each transaction  and included in the calculation of redress.
what must  Hargreaves  do?
Ref: DRN70750084Mr W appears to have  provided Hargreaves (and this service) with documentary 
identification (and calculation)  of the transactions relevant  to the complaint.  
Hargreaves is invited to use this as guidance  but it must also conduct a full audit of 
all transactions in Mrs Ws account  for the purposes  stated  below.
Hargreaves must verify, with reliable  spot rate evidence, the spot rate applied  for 
each transaction;  where a spot rate was wrong it must be corrected.
Hargreaves must identify all transactions,  based on the correct  spot rates, for which a 
commission rate above 0.3%  was applied and it must recalculate those commission  
payments based on the 0.3%  capped  rate.
The aim of redress  for Mrs W is to ensure that she receives  a full refund  in terms of 
any excess payments she wrongly  incurred   for all transactions where the spot rate 
was wrongly applied to her detriment and for all transactions where  commission rates 
above 0.3% were  applied.  Hargreaves  must conduct a clear a simple  calculation of 
these refunds  discounting, with explanation, any refund it has already paid Mrs W.
Hargreaves must also pay Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset the matter  has 
caused her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I order  Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited to compensate her as stated  above and to provide her with a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7075008