K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited declined  claims for heart treatment  under 
his private medical  insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the delay in AXA responding to 
him.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Js complaint in June  2020.  Heres what  I said:
Mr Js policy with AXA started  on 1 February 2018.  It was a moratorium  policy, and it was 
accepted on a continued medical exclusions underwriting basis  from his previous insurance  
provider. The moratorium start date under the previous policy  was 1 February 2016. The 
previous policy  said benefits wont be available for any pre-existing conditions for which Mr J 
had received medication, advice or treatment  in the five years before the moratorium start 
date.
Mr Js policy  with AXA said that no benefit will be payable for pre-existing medical conditions 
during the first two years of membership.  After  that, benefit will become payable for those  
conditions, if at the time of receiving treatment there has been a trouble-free period of 24 
months.
In 2008, Mr J was diagnosed  with some cardiac problems. He had surgery  which  included  
aortic valve  replacement with bioprosthesis. Mr J made a good recovery  from the surgery,  
but he continued to have  annual check-ups  privately  with a cardiologist. He says these 
werent medically necessary  rather,  they were  for his own peace of mind.  These  check-ups  
also included either an ECG, chest x-ray or a cardiac ultrasound. Mr J says the purpose was 
to check the working  of the aorta.
During one of the annual  check-ups in August 2018, the cardiologist identified that the 
gradient over the aortic valve had increased  slightly. Mr J was also suffering from effort 
induced chest  tightness and breathlessness. So, Mr J was referred for a CT scan  to try and 
find the cause.
Mr J got in touch with AXA to see if the CT scan would be covered. AXA said that his heart 
problems would be treated as a pre-existing condition  considering  Mr Js medical history.  
And as Mr J had been having annual check-ups, he hadnt had a trouble-free period. But 
AXA said that if there was a separate unrelated  diagnosis, it could look into covering this. 
AXA asked Mr J to send  evidence of the previous and current diagnosis.  Mr J sent AXA 
medical reports, but it maintained the condition was pre-existing  and Mr J hadnt met the 
trouble-free period.  Mr J then had the scan on the NHS.
Mr J went into A&E in December 2018  with chest pains. He was diagnosed  with severe right 
coronary artery disease. He underwent angioplasty  and stents were inserted into the 
coronary artery. Mr J says he paid for the treatment privately.
Mr J got in touch with AXA after the procedure.  He didnt agree  with AXAs interpretation of 
the annual check-ups hed had  he thought he met the trouble-free criteria.  So, he thought  
that AXA should pay for the treatment he received.
Ref: DRN77652102AXA maintained that Mr Js condition was related to the heart surgery in 2008 as he had had 
annual check-ups for his heart  problems. This meant that AXA considered  the condition  to 
be pre-existing, and Mr J hadnt had trouble-free  period for 24 months. So, AXA didnt agree 
to cover the costs.
Mr J continued to have  symptoms, and the gradient over the aortic valve continued to 
increase. He was referred for further  tests by his cardiologist. These  suggested that there 
was evidence of a probable pannus.  A further  report said the test demonstrated structural  
valve degeneration with possible pannus formation  resulting in severe aortic stenosis 
physiology. He therefore needed his aortic valve replaced. 
Mr J has sent us information which explains that pannus is an abnormal layer of tissue  which 
can grow over a prosthetic heart  valve. The information also outlines that pannus  formation  
after aortic valve replacement is not common.
Mr J provided  a letter from his cardiologist  who said that Mr J could ask AXA to get an 
opinion of a cardiologist that pannus represents a pre-existing problem. The cardiologist 
didnt think AXA would  find one.
AXA looked  into Mr Js medical  evidence. It thought pannus was related  to the pre-existing 
condition. AXA thought that whilst the pannus was new, its something  that can occur with 
aortic valve  prosthesis. So again,  AXA said it wouldnt cover any treatment relating to this.
By this point, Mr Js policy with AXA had lapsed.  But Mr J said that he wouldve renewed the 
policy, had AXA agreed to cover the treatment. As it didnt,  he took out a policy  with another  
provider, and paid for an aortic valve replacement privately. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Js complaint. She thought  AXA had acted in line 
with its terms  and conditions in declining to pay for Mr Js treatment, as it related to a pre-
existing condition, and Mr J hadnt had a trouble-free period. She also noted that Mr J had 
been taking medication since the heart  surgery.
Mr J continued to dispute AXAs decision, and asked  for it to provide medical evidence that 
pannus wasnt a new condition. He wrote to AXA in March  and April 2019, but AXA didnt 
acknowledge it until May 2019. AXA gave Mr J its final response  in August 2019 and it paid 
him £100 compensation for the delay  in responding.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The condition for which Mr J wanted  AXA to provide cover for in November and December 
2018 was severe  right coronary artery disease. And between January and April 2019  the 
condition was pannus, for which Mr J needed  aortic valve replacement.  The diagnosis  in 
2008 was  amongst other  things   severe  coronary disease and aortic stenosis. The 
treatment included two grafts  to his left coronary  system and aortic  valve  replacement.
Ref: DRN77652103First, Ive looked to see if it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr J had a pre-existing 
condition. The moratorium on Mr Js previous policy started on 1 February 2016. The policy 
terms said treatment wasnt covered for any pre-existing medical  condition  for which Mr J 
had received medication, advice or treatment in the five years  before the policy  started. 
The five-year period  was between 1 February 2011  and 1 February  2016.  And I can see that 
during this time Mr J continued to have annual  check-ups with a cardiologist. He also 
continued to take several  medications to lower his cholesterol, as well as aspirin  although 
this was stopped at some point.
Ive thought about what Mr J has said about  the annual check-ups  that these were merely 
for his peace  of mind. So, Ive looked  at the reports Mr J has sent. These appear to be quite 
detailed checks into Mr Js heart,  including  tests. The reports comment on the general  health 
of the heart, as well as the prosthetic valve. The cardiologist also concluded the reports  by 
saying they plan to see Mr J again  in a years time.
AXA says that Mr J sought a consultants advice  each year when he had annual check-ups. 
AXA also referred  to the specialist  report in 2014, and how prior to the consultation  Mr J had 
received a recent ECG  and cardiac ultrasound to check  his aorta.  So, AXA considers that 
Mr J received advice.
Overall, Im persuaded by AXAs argument  here. I think the cardiologist gave Mr J an opinion  
of the condition of his heart, and advised him to be reviewed in a years time with a 
preceding cardiac  ultrasound. So, I think Mr J received advice.
Mr J has also been taking  several  medications for hypercholesterolaemia. Mr J says these 
were prescribed  and monitored by a separate  medical practitioner  and not his cardiologist. 
But these  medications  are included in the cardiologist reports  as part of the treatment plan. 
And the report in 2014 includes aspirin,  which AXA says is taken for heart conditions.
Overall, I think AXA acted  reasonably  by considering Mr Js condition  fell under the pre-
existing condition exclusion  hed received both medication and advice from medical  
practitioners.
Mr Js policy  covers pre-existing conditions after two years of membership  if at the time of 
receiving treatment there has been a trouble-free period of 24 months   so from 1 February  
2016 to 1 February 2018. Trouble-free meant  not having had a medical opinion from a 
medical practitioner, taken medication, followed a special diet, had medical treatment or 
visited a practitioner.
The first treatment Mr J was asking AXA to cover was between November and December 
2018. But Mr J had an annual check-up  in August  2017. I think  AXA acted reasonably by 
considering this annual check-up to mean Mr J hadnt had a 24 month trouble-free period  
hed had a medical opinion  from a medical  practitioner.
So, I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr Js claim for tests and treatment 
between November and December 2018.
Ref: DRN77652104Ive then considered  if AXA acted fairly by refusing to cover  treatment  due to pannus.  I 
accept that Mr Js cardiologist suggests  its not a pre-existing problem. But it doesnt  look like 
AXA is disputing this. AXAs underwriting notes  appear to accept the pannus  itself is new. 
But AXA considers it to relate to the replaced  aortic valve,  which is the treatment Mr J 
received for his pre-existing  condition.
Based on what Ive seen,  it does  look like the pannus does relate to the heart  surgery Mr J 
had in 2008, and for which hes had annual check-ups. Pannus appears  to grow specifically 
on prosthetic valves (amongst other places).  And part of the check-ups was to check  how 
that valve was working. AXA has also explained  that prosthetic  valve  dysfunction at aortic 
position is commonly caused by pannus formation  which is an uncommon, but serious  
complication.
AXA accepts  the pannus isnt a pre-existing condition, but it says that it relates  to a pre-
existing condition, so its not covered. But the policy terms only exclude cover for pre-
existing conditions  theres nothing to say this also applies to related conditions. AXA has 
referred to another policy term that it says outlines  this. But this term is relevant to treatment 
resulting from or connected with treatment that isnt covered  under  the policy.  But heart 
treatment is covered under the policy  in this instance there  just needs to be a trouble-free 
period before its covered.  So, I dont  think AXA is relying on the correct term here.
But AXA has also said its not clear  when the pannus started  causing  symptoms, as Mr J 
had a heart attack that led to heart surgery in December 2018. The pannus was only 
discovered in a scan on 31 January 2019  and the report still only refers to probable  
evidence of pannus. This report refers to treating Mr J routinely as per aortic  stenosis (which 
was a pre-existing condition and he hadnt had a trouble-free period). And the report  
concluded that if Mr J does develop symptoms, then surgery  might  need to be considered.
Mr Js policy  with AXA lapsed  on 1 February 2019. Mr J told AXA he was considering  
renewing his policy  and backdating it, but he first wanted a decision  on the pannus.  I accept 
that Mr J may not have  let his policy with AXA lapse,  if AXA had just agreed to cover any 
treatment resulting from the pannus straight away. But I need to consider  if AXA acted fairly 
based on the information it had at the time, and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
The policy covers eligible treatment, which includes treatment for a disease,  illness  or injury  
for an acute  condition, and isnt preventative.  AXA accepts the pannus led to the decline in 
the function of the aortic  valve, but it says this may not have been clinically  apparent in the 
early stages. And considering the medical report following the scan  that led to discovering  
the pannus (as above), I dont think there was evidence to show Mr J needed eligible 
treatment for the pannus  while  he was insured by AXA. This was also noted by AXA at the 
time  its notes on 15 February 2019  refer to the plan being routine monitoring, which isnt 
covered.
Mr J saw a cardiac surgeon  on 16 February 2019  which included a plan for surgery.  Mr J 
told AXA in late February 2019 that hed be sending it further information, and AXA received 
this in early March 2019. But at this point, Mr J hadnt been insured by AXA for over a 
month. The policy handbook, in a section headed  Rights and responsibilities,  states that 
[w]e will pay for covered  costs incurred during a period for which  the subscription has been 
paid. This is a common approach in private  medical insurance policies. The insurer cannot  
be held liable for treatment costs  which  are incurred once the policy has ended.
Ref: DRN77652105So, at this point,  I dont think AXA needed to cover any treatment for Mr J  even if it 
wouldve been eligible (which  I havent considered)  as the policy  had lapsed.  I know Mr J 
has said he wouldve renewed the policy if AXA had agreed to cover the treatment resulting 
from the pannus.  But as I explained, I dont think AXA did anything  wrong initially  when Mr J 
sent it a report with the probable diagnosis of pannus   the treatment wasnt  eligible at this 
point. And when AXA had more information  about what  treatment was needed  in 
March 2019, Mr J wasnt insured by AXA anymore.  
I havent seen  anything to show that Mr J had sought confirmation from AXA that it would be 
willing to reinstate his policy over a month  after it had lapsed. So, I dont think AXA was 
required to allow Mr J to renew  the policy at this point  and treat it as a continuous  one.
Im also mindful that AXA had already  sent Mr J a final response letter  to his complaint about 
his previous claim in January 2019. So, Mr J knew that he could bring a complaint about 
AXAs decision to our service, if he wasnt happy with it.
Overall, I think AXA acted  in line with its terms and conditions of the policy.  So, I dont think it 
needed to cover the treatment resulting from the pannus.
I accept that AXA took a while to respond  to Mr Js complaint  about  its decision not to cover 
the cost of treatment  on pannus. But as I think it was reasonable for AXA to make  that 
decision overall, I think the compensation its paid Mr J for the delay is fair and reasonable.
AXA responded to say it received my provisional  decision  and it didnt have anything  further  
to add. Mr J said he doesnt accept the decision. 
In summary,  Mr J said that the pannus was a new condition. He said the aortic valve 
replacement in 2008 was due to calcification, and the replacement of the aortic valve  in 2019  
was needed due to pannus growth,  which had probably developed quite recently. And any 
medication received  over the years  was unrelated because there was no medication for 
pannus. Mr J also said AXA had never  provided  a medical report  to contradict his 
cardiologists statement   they didnt think AXA would find a cardiologist whod say pannus 
represented a pre-existing problem.
The deadline  to provide  any further comments or information following my provisional 
decision has now passed. So, Im issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has given  any further comments about  my findings  for Mr Js claim for tests 
and treatment between  November and December 2018. So, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings in my provisional decision. Overall,  I think  AXA acted fairly and reasonably 
by declining  Mr Js claim for tests and treatment  between November and December 2018.
Ive thought about what Mr J has said about  the pannus. But I dont  think Mr Js comments  
add anything new that I havent already considered in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN77652106I said in my provisional decision that AXA accepted the pannus wasnt  a pre-existing 
condition, but it related  to one  so its not covered. But I said there wasnt  anything  in the 
policy terms that excluded  cover for conditions relating to pre-existing conditions.
However, I also noted that Mr Js policy with AXA lapsed on 1 February 2019. So, I needed 
to consider if AXA acted  fairly based  on the information it had at the time, and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
I explained that I didnt think AXA did anything wrong when Mr J sent a report with the 
probable diagnosis of pannus  the treatment wasnt eligible at this point. And when AXA 
had more information about what treatment  was needed in March 2019, Mr J wasnt  insured  
by AXA anymore.
So, I think AXA acted in line with its terms and conditions of the policy.  That means I dont 
think it needed to cover the treatment resulting from the pannus. And I also think  the 
compensation AXA paid for the delay  in responding to Mr Js complaint was fair in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Js 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Renja Anderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7765210