K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complained because Nationwide Building  Society reported an arrangement 
concession on her mortgage to the credit reference agencies.  She said that she was turned  
down for credit elsewhere because of this. Mrs A wants Nationwide to remove the marker on 
her credit file.
background
Mrs A had a repayment mortgage with Nationwide and was paying £1,174.77 a month. In 
January 2018,  she rang Nationwide to ask about options to reduce her monthly mortgage 
payment. She explained that she was between contract jobs. 
In that call, the adviser explained  that Nationwide could put in place a concession.  Theyd  
look at Mrs As income and expenditure and see what was affordable.  The adviser  said that 
there were two things  Mrs A needed to be aware  of:
-One was that there was a minimum figure which Mrs A would need to pay for it not to 
count as arrears. That figure  would  be the interest figure. 
-The other was that he needed to make Mrs A aware that if her payments were 
reduced, Nationwide would put a note on her credit file to say she had an 
arrangement in place.  
Mrs A said that was fine, and she asked if it would stay on file for six years,  which the 
adviser confirmed. He explained that an arrangement would mark the file with an 
Arrangement marker. But if the amount Mrs A paid was less than interest only,  it would 
count as arrears which would affect  her credit file. He explained that anything on a credit file 
could affect the ability  to get credit in future.
Mrs A and the adviser went  through her financial circumstances. The interest only amount 
was £676.93,  and Mrs A said shed pay £700 a month for the next three  months, January to 
March 2018. The adviser set this up, and said the mortgage wouldnt go into arrears 
because shed be paying more than the interest. He repeated that she was aware thered be 
a note on her credit  file that she had an arrangement, but it wouldnt report as arrears.
In the rest of the call, Mrs A and the adviser discussed the fact that when she was able to 
pay in full again, shed pay a bit more because she hadnt paid off capital during the period 
of the arrangement.  The adviser set up the arrangement.
Nationwide wrote to Mrs A on 19 January 2018  to confirm the arrangement.  The letter  
included bullet points  headed Important information.  One of these said:
Details of this temporary concession will be passed on to Credit Reference Agencies,  which  
are used by lenders to work out whether to lend you money or not.    
Mrs A paid the reduced amount  of £700  in January.  But on 8 February, she told Nationwide 
that she could  now afford  her normal monthly payments again. And she went back to paying 
£1,174.77 at the end of February.
In November 2018, Mrs A was turned  down  for credit by another  lender. The letter  said that 
her credit file showed that the way shed previously managed credit could mean  shed have 
difficulty making payments in future. Mrs A complained to Nationwide  about the arrangement  
marker which it had put onto her credit file in February 2018.
Ref: DRN70086622Nationwide replied that its adviser  had told Mrs A that the concession  would show on her 
credit file for up to six years. And the confirmation letter had also set out the impact on her 
credit file. Nationwide recognised  that Mrs A had cancelled  the arrangement and started  
paying again in February,  but it said shed been told that Nationwide  couldnt amend her 
credit file because it had to report a true reflection to the credit agencies.
Mrs A was still unhappy and complained to this service.  She sent us a copy  of her credit 
report. She said that by the end of February  her mortgage had been fully up to date, and it 
had been since.  She said shed understood that prompt attention to financial difficulty would  
be seen as positive  indicator of financial responsibility, not a negative one. 
Mrs A wanted Nationwide to remove the arrangement marker. She said Nationwide had 
breached guidelines from the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO) because the marker 
gave an inadequate  reflection of her financial standing. And it was unfair processing of data 
and resulted in a false public record. She said it was also below the three month threshold 
for any defaults being sent to the credit agencies.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. She listened to the phone  call when the 
arrangement had been set up, and looked at the copy  of Mrs As credit report which  Mrs A 
had sent in. The adjudicator concluded that Nationwide had been sympathetic to Mrs As 
situation and had agreed a concession. It had made Mrs A aware - both on the phone and in 
writing - that it would be informing the credit agencies. She said that Nationwide had a 
responsibility to report  arrangements and the credit  file showed this had been done fairly.
Mrs A wasnt  satisfied.  She sent us a copy of the ICOs Technical Guidance Note called 
Filing Defaults with Credit Reference Agencies . And she said she wanted me to review  her 
case on the basis of this guidance, which she said recommends  that banks only apply  any 
AR mark to a credit file after three consecutive months of a consumer not paying or 
defaulting. Mrs A believed that Nationwide had left a default mark on her file after less than 
one month. She wants the mark taken off her credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the phone  
recording of the call between Mrs A and Nationwide in January 2018.
I understand why Mrs A is frustrated and upset to find that she was turned down for a credit 
card by another lender,  which said it was as a result  of her credit  file. Shed been 
responsible about getting  in touch with Nationwide  straightaway when she knew she was 
going to have a problem  making her monthly  payment. And shed started paying the full 
amount again  promptly. 
But my job is to look at whether Nationwide did anything  wrong.  So Ive listened to the phone 
recording form January  2018,  and looked  at all the documents.  And as Mrs A has requested,  
Ive looked specifically at the ICO guidance  which she sent in.
Setting up the arrangement 
The phone recording shows that Nationwides  adviser did tell Mrs A that the arrangement  
would be reported  to the credit file agencies. Ive set out what happened in the background 
Ref: DRN70086623section above.  I find that Nationwides adviser  was clear, pleasant  and helpful, and he made 
Mrs A aware of the implications of setting  up an arrangement. The confirmation letter also 
set this out. So I find that Mrs A knew that her credit file would be noted with an 
arrangement, when she chose to set it up.
Ive checked that the information  recorded  was accurate, and I find that it was. Mrs A made a 
reduced monthly payment in January 2018.  This was for more  than the interest payable,  so 
the credit  file was marked as an arrangement  and not as arrears. Nationwide  reported 
this in February 2018, so thats the month which  shows  for the arrangement.  It didnt report  
any more markers, because Mrs A was subsequently able to pay the full amount. So it was 
accurate that Nationwide recorded an arrangement for one month.
The ICO guidance on defaults 
The document which Mrs A has sent to us is about  defaults. And Nationwide  didnt record  a 
default against Mrs As credit file. It recorded  an arrangement, which is different  and less 
serious. So the ICO guidance on reporting  defaults doesnt apply to Mrs As complaint.
As Mrs A paid more  than the interest  due, the marker was an arrangement  marker and not 
an arrears marker. Nationwides adviser explained this during the call. 
A default is a much  more serious  matter than an arrangement. Section 9 of the ICO 
document which Mrs A sent us explains that although there isnt a standard definition  of 
default, it should be used to refer to a situation  when the lender decides  the business  
relationship has broken  down. This wasnt what had happened  here and it wasnt what 
Nationwide recorded.
So the arrangement marker which Nationwide put on Mrs As account was less serious than 
either arrears or default markers  would have been.  
And most importantly, the arrangement marker  was accurate, which  credit  file markers have 
to be. Mrs A did have  a payment arrangement  for one month. Nationwide doesnt have a 
choice about whether  or not to record markers  it has to report  accurately. And there  isnt a 
rule, as Mrs A believes, that arrangement markers  can only be reported if the arrangement  is 
for three months. Nor do I agree  with Mrs A that the arrangement marker represented unfair  
processing of data or resulted  in a false public record.
So I find that Nationwide didnt do anything wrong.  It offered Mrs A a concession when she 
contacted it to talk about her financial circumstances. The adviser was clear about what that 
would involve, and the societys confirmation letter  also set out the credit file marker. And 
Nationwide recorded  an arrangement marker, not an arrears  or default marker. So it 
reported accurately,  as it was obliged to do.
I recognise that Mrs A was upset when the other  lender  refused her credit card application 
and said this was because of her credit file. But I cant comment on that lenders refusal.  
This complaint is against Nationwide, not that other lender. And in any event, lenders all 
have different lending policies, and are entitled to take their own decisions about lending 
criteria.  
I find that Nationwide didnt act unfairly  towards  Mrs A and I dont require it to remove  the 
arrangement marker.
Ref: DRN70086624my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7008662