K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited  dealt with her furniture insurance policy 
claim and that it cancelled the policy.  My references  to Ageas include its agents.
background 
In July 2016 Ms M bought  furniture and a five year furniture protection insurance  policy,  
insured by Ageas.
In March 2018 Ms M noticed some  faults with one nest of tables, the media storage unit, and 
the dining table  and she claimed on her policy. Ageas technician  inspected the furniture in 
April 2018. Ms Ms husband says the technician recommended that the nest of tables  
needed to be replaced and the media storage  unit and dining table could be repaired.
Ageas accepted the claim. It replaced all the damaged items  as it said the nest of tables and 
media storage  unit were  unrepairable  and the dining  table couldnt be repaired to a suitable 
standard.
When Ms M husband unpacked  the new furniture he found  the dining table and media 
storage unit were damaged. Ms M raised a new claim  but Ageas  wouldnt accept  another 
claim as it said the policys limit of indemnity had already  been  reached which  bought the 
cover for the item to an end. Ms M complained to Ageas and during the investigation  she 
was sent another dining table which was also damaged.
Ms M complained to us, represented  by her husband. In summary, she says Ageas replaced 
the other furniture without  offering her a refund. Shes unhappy Ageas cancelled the policy  
and it never  gave her the 14 days cancellation  notice in writing or refunded part of the policy 
premiums as the policy says. She wants to return the damaged furniture and get a full refund 
or have  the remaining  three years warranty cover  she paid for.
Our investigator thought Ageas should  put Ms M in the position she should have been in 
when she made the claim in March 2018. So Ageas should replace the dining table  and 
media storage  unit with like for like furniture which isnt faulty. He thought Ageas could 
cancel the policy.
Ageas agreed  to the investigators  recommendation.
Ms M didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans  decision. She said it wasnt  acceptable  for 
Ageas to make unilateral decisions which lead to the end of her policy.  Also it only told her 
the policy was cancelled when she contacted it about the damaged replacement furniture. 
Before I made my decision I asked Ageas to clarify  whether it has cancelled Ms Ms policy, 
or whether just the cover  for the replaced items had ended. Its final response letter to Ms M 
suggested the latter. Ageas said the insurance  cover has ended  on just the items  that had 
been replaced. The remaining items  are still covered under the policy.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to partly uphold  this complaint. 
I said:
Ref: DRN71987262Ms M is unhappy that Ageas  replaced  the furniture without her consent.  As our investigator 
correctly told Ms M, generally  an insurer  would  rather repair than replace furniture as it 
usually costs more  to replace than repair an item. But sometimes a repair  isnt practical  or 
possible. Ageas could  reasonably understand from its technicians April 2018  report that all 
three items of furniture  needed to be replaced.
The policy says:
If a repair  is not possible  or practical,  we will offer you, at our discretion  (my emphasis), a 
replacement or a full refund.
So it was for Ageas to decide whether it would provide Ms M with a full refund or 
replacement. It didnt  need to ask Ms M which she would prefer and it can chose to replace 
the furniture.
When Ageas  accepted  the claim and chose  to replace the items it needed to provide Ms M 
with like for like replacements  of a satisfactory  quality.  Ageas hasnt disputed that the 
replacement dining table  and media storage unit were damaged  pre-delivery so it needs to 
provide Ms M with like for like replacements that arent damaged. Ageas has now agreed to 
do so.
Ms M says theres no mention in the policy that Ageas will cancel  the policy if she makes  a 
claim. Shes also unhappy it didnt give her 14 days notice of cancellation or refund her part 
of the premium as its required to do under  the policy terms if it cancels the policy.
Ageas has now clarified that it hasnt cancelled the whole  of Ms Ms policy.  The furniture  
covered by the policy that hasnt been  replaced remains  covered. Its the insurance cover  on 
the replaced items that has ended.
As Ageas didnt  cancel the policy it didnt  need  to give written  cancellation  notice, or refund 
any premiums.
Ageas has acted fairly in saying that the insurance  cover on the replaced items  has ended. 
The policy has a limit of liability  which is Ageas  limit of responsibility  in the event of a claim.
Ageas will pay for repair or replacement  for damaged  furniture up to the original purchase 
price of the item. The limit of Ageas liability has been reached for the items of furniture its 
replaced. It doesnt need to continue to provide insurance cover  for those items.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ageas said it had no further  comment.  Ms M didnt respond by the response  date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ageas has no further comments and Ms M hasnt responded Ive no reason to change  
my mind. For the reasons Ive given  in my provisional findings and these findings I partly 
uphold the complaint. Ageas must replace the damaged dining table and media  storage  unit 
with like for like undamaged furniture, as its now agreed to do.
Ref: DRN71987263my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to replace the damaged dining table and media  storage  
unit with like for like undamaged furniture, as its now agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7198726