K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  has declined a
claim he made under his motor warranty policy.
background
Mr A bought a motor  warranty  policy in September 2018 to cover his vehicle. The mileage he 
tells us was recorded on his car at the time was 149,800. His policy  was paid for on a
monthly basis and would continue to run until cancelled.
At the beginning  of December 2018  Mr A missed one of his regular payments. He later made 
this payment on 28 December 2018  and cover resumed. There has been some confusion  
over whether  the policy continued at this point or the original policy  was cancelled and a new 
one was set up.
At the beginning  of January 2019  Mr As car wouldnt start due to a flat battery  so he called a 
third party recovery company for assistance. The car was jump-started to rectify  this issue.  
Once started  Mr A noticed a further  problem with the car as he was unable to select  a gear.  
Mr A then had his car recovered to a gear box specialist.
Mr A attempted to make  a claim under his warranty and the garage contacted Red Sands 
directly to start this process. Red Sands sent out an engineer to assess  the claim.
On receipt of the engineers report Red Sands declined Mr As claim. They said this was 
because the fault would  have been noticeable  before the claim, likely during the period of 
non-payment.
Mr A has said if Red Sands arent able to specify a date of when the fault was first noticeable 
its unfair to assume  it happened in the short period  that Mr A wasnt covered. Hes said its 
more likely the fault occurred between September and December, when  his policy  was in 
place. Mr A said this is because he wasnt driving  the car over the period of non-payment, as 
he was car sharing and away for the Christmas holiday.
Since Mr As complaint has been  with us Red Sands has checked Mr As MOT history and
discovered in March 2018 his car had covered  149,442 miles. When  Mr A claimed, the third
party recovery company  recorded the mileage as 150,651 Meaning the car had travelled a
total distance of 1,209 miles between March 2018  and January 2019.
Red Sands  has since  asked for comments from the engineer that inspected  the fault and he
has confirmed that signs of the fault would have been noticeable  for multiple  thousands of
miles before the claim was made.  Red Sands has therefore decided  to stand by its decision
not to pay Mr As claim on the basis that Mr As car wasnt on cover at the time the fault 
occurred.
Our Investigator  consider  Mr As complaint but didnt  think  it should be upheld. In 
October 2019 I wrote a provisional decision on this complaint explaining why I didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my provisional decision
is that I dont uphold it. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping  for so Ive set out
Ref: DRN78845362my reasons  for this below.
There has been some discrepancy over whether  the policy should have been cancelled and
a new one set up, or just simply continued from the date Mr A made  a payment. Although  I
dont think this has any bearing on the complaint. Either way, Red Sands has confirmed it
wouldnt pay claims where the fault occurred over this period. As Mr A didnt pay for this time
I dont think this is unreasonable.
From the information available  its appears  that Mr As car had travelled 1,209 miles from
March 2018 to the date he made  a claim in January 2019 and just 851 miles from
September 2018 when Mr A first took his policy to the date he made a claim 4 months  later
in January 2019.
The engineer that assessed Mr As car has found that there  would have been noticeable
signs of the fault for multiple  thousands of miles before  the claim was made.  The car would
have been banging and juddering on initial take up of drive. I havent  seen anything that has
persuaded me that the engineers view isnt accurate, and I am satisfied the fault would have
been apparent  to Mr A before he had the policy.  So with this in mind  I dont think Red Sands
has acted unfairly in deciding to decline Mr As claim on the basis  that the car wasnt
covered at the time the fault occurred.
Redsands didnt provide any further  information in response to my provisional decision.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision explaining that the problem  with his car was that 
it would  not select  the reverse gear in January, and that Red Sands had previously stated  
they believed  the fault to have happened in the December 2018 when his car wasnt 
covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having considered Mr As additional comments, I still dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. As I explained in my provisional decision Mr As car had travelled a short distance 
from March 2018  to the date a claim was made in January  2019.  Mr A has also told us that 
his car was parked for some time not being  used. So much so that the battery had gone flat 
as a result  of it not being used. 
Mr A has told us that the problem with his car was that it wasnt  possible to select  the 
reverse gear and there wasnt  any noticeable  juddering. I dont think this makes the 
engineers comments  any less persuasive. The engineer  that assessed Mr As car told us 
that Mr As car would have shown a noticeable  fault for many  thousands of miles before the 
claim was made. Mr A hadnt driven his car very often, and while he said he didnt noticed  
the fault I think its likely the juddering would have apparent for some time.
Mr A has further said that the engineer had previously stated that the fault was likely to have 
occurred during the time the car wasnt covered in December 2018. Although at the time this 
report was carried out the engineer was basing his findings on the policy starting  on 
28 December 2018. The engineers further  comments are based  on how long the fault would 
have been noticeable for so his findings are not inconsistent.
Ref: DRN78845363As the engineer has said the fault would have been noticeable for many thousands of miles  I 
think its likely the fault would have been noticeable before the policy  was taken out. So it 
follows that I think Red Sands have  acted fairly  in declining Mr As claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7884536