K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK plc wont refund three credit card transactions that he 
says he neither made nor authorised.  
background
Mr Os Santander credit card was used to pay for two purchases and to make  a cash 
machine withdrawal in Toronto, Canada in September  2017.  Santanders  records show this 
was late at night,  UK time, which would have been early evening  in Canada.  Mr O contacted 
the bank the following morning to say hed noticed the payments but that he wasnt in 
Canada and wasnt responsible for them. He said too that his card was missing.
Santander looked into things but said that its records indicated that genuine card had been 
used with the correct PIN. It concluded  therefore  that Mr O must have been responsible for 
the card use and said it wouldnt be making  a refund. Mr O referred the complaint to this 
service and one of our adjudicators considered it. He concluded that Santander hadnt acted 
unfairly in holding Mr O liable for the transactions. Mr O didnt accept his conclusions  and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did. 
The banks records indicate that the chip embedded in the card was used to make  all three  
disputed transactions.  I accept that it was. I accept  too that this is an indication that the 
genuine card was used, rather than a copy or clone.  Whilst its possible to copy  information  
from the magnetic  stripe  on one card to the stripe on a different card to produce a copy,  
replicating the chip in a card is a different matter entirely. 
I also accept that the card was used with the correct PIN on each occasion.  It follows that 
whoever made the transactions in Canada had Mr Os card and knew his PIN. The PIN isnt 
recorded in unencrypted form on the card and its unlikely that someone who had the card 
could have guessed  the PIN. 
Mr O says he doesnt know  what happened to his card after he used it to make  a cash 
machine withdrawal the day before  it was first used in Canada. There  was around 32 hours  
between those transactions.  I accept its possible that it was taken from him without him 
noticing, or that he left it somewhere and someone picked it up. But I believe thats unlikely. 
If someone had been able to obtain Mr Os card without his authority, Id need to consider 
how the same person  was able to obtain  his PIN. Mr O says he didnt  keep a record of it, 
and I accept that. I note that hed changed it, presumably  to a number  he could easily  
remember. Its possible that someone  observed  him using his card to withdraw cash  and 
noted the PIN then. However, if that had happened  and the same  person was able to take 
Mr Os card without  him noticing,  I think it unlikely  that they would then wait more  than a day 
before trying  to use it. Its even more unlikely that they would take it to Canada.  
Im prepared to accept that Mr O didnt  go to Canada and didnt make the transactions 
himself. He logged  into his account  at the same  time, and the banks records  show he did 
that from the UK. But his card did go to Canada  and whoever took it knew the PIN. For the 
Ref: DRN74187002reasons Ive explained, I dont believe someone  took Mr Os card and managed to find out 
his PIN without his knowledge. I think the more  likely  explanation  is that the person who was 
using Mr Os card was doing so with his authority and consent. In the circumstances, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to require Santander to reimburse him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to do anything  further to resolve  
Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr O to accept  or reject my decision before  28 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7418700