K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about MBNA Limiteds decision to decline a claim made  under section 75 of
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In 2017 Mr S paid a third party airline  (the airline) for a return  flight using  his MBNA credit
card. At the time of his booking his outbound  flight was scheduled as a business class ticket
on one of the airlines upgraded, new aircrafts.
On the day of the outbound flight,  the airline cancelled the flight  due to a technical  difficulty
with the aircraft. The flight was rescheduled to a few days  later but the aircraft  was an older
style one  although Mr S still flew business class.  There  were no issues  with his return
flight.
Mr S brought a claim against the airline  in the small claims court. But in July 2018 the court
dismissed his claim. So Mr S contacted  MBNA and asked them to raise a s.75 claim instead.
Mr S told MBNA that he had decided to overpay for his outbound flight  on the understanding
that he would fly on the airlines upgraded aircraft. So in failing to fly him on that aircraft, as
described at the point  of his flight purchase, the airline had misrepresented  their service  to
him and breached their contract. He therefore  sought a refund of the difference  between
what he had paid for the outbound flight and an economy flight ticket.
MBNA initially  told Mr S that as the court had decided the airline wasnt  liable then MBNA
also, in turn, wasnt liable.  Mr S told MBNA  that his court claim had only related to
compensation for the flight delay. He also confirmed that, the reason for his claim being
dismissed was because the court  had decided that there had been  extraordinary
circumstances outside of the airlines control.
Mr S also provided MBNA with a copy of the courts order dated July 2018 which  stated the
following:
Upon hearing the Claimant in person, hearing Counsel for the Defendant
IT IS ORDERED THAT
1. Claim dismissed
So MBNA proceeded to consider the s.75 claim but decided that the airline hadnt
misrepresented anything.  They also didnt  think that the airline had breached  their contract
with Mr S because the airlines terms and conditions didnt guarantee a particular  aircraft  and
expressly permitted the airline to substitute  alternative aircrafts.
Mr S complained to MBNA about this decision. Although  MBNA  didnt change their mind,
they apologised for the initial misinformation relating to the courts  decision meaning MBNA
wasnt liable.  So they credited Mr Ss account with £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator explained
to Mr S that although  a courts judgment  would usually bind our service, on this occasion the
court order  indicated that Mr Ss claim had been dismissed without consideration in favour of
mediation.
Ref: DRN74167892So our investigator decided that he was able to consider  Mr Ss complaint and concluded
that the airline had breached their contract  with Mr S by failing to fly him on the new aircraft.
But Mr S ought to only be refunded 25% of the amount  he paid for the flight  given that he
had still flown business class.
MBNA disagreed and Mr S wasnt happy  with the amount  awarded.  So both MBNA and Mr S
requested an ombudsmans decision.
MBNA subsequently  said that, although  they still disagreed with our investigator,  theyd be
willing to offer the investigators suggested award as a gesture of good will. Mr S was given
an opportunity to accept  this offer but declined. 
So the complaint was passed onto me for a decision. Having reviewed it, I issued a 
provisional decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide what, if anything, MBNA should  do to resolve Mr Ss complaint. To do this, I
have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to  amongst  other  things 
what the law says.  Here, that is s.75 which says that, in certain  circumstances, if Mr S paid
for goods and services  using his credit card and there was a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier  that is to say, the airline   MBNA can be jointly  or
severally liable to Mr S.
This means  that a claim under s.75 can be brought  against  the creditor, supplier or both. In
this case, Mr S has already brought a court claim against the airline. So although that claim
didnt involve MBNA, the courts findings  and judgment against  the airline are relevant.  I say
that because MBNAs  joint or several liability  under s.75 only arises if the airline  has
misrepresented something or breached their contract with Mr S.
I need to therefore  first consider what issues the court gave judgment on. To that end, Ive
seen the series of emails  from Mr S to MBNA in which he confirmed that his court claim had
related solely  to compensation for the flight delay and that it hadnt been in relation to a
misrepresentation of goods/services provided. He also confirmed that the court had made a
finding of extraordinary  circumstances and dismissed his claim.
When Mr S brought his complaint  to our service he told us the same  thing about the remit of
his court  claim and the courts findings. But part way through  the complaint he appears  to
have changed  his account and instead  said that the court had in fact dismissed  his claim
without giving reasons or a judgment. Furthermore,  that there had been no legally  binding
judgment made.
So our investigator contacted the court in order to clarify  and understand exactly what had
happened during the court  proceedings. In response,  the court provided copies of two court
orders and a copy of Mr Ss particulars of claim.  The orders  were as follows:
Ref: DRN74167893i) Order dated May 2018:  this was a notice of allocation  to the small claims track. The
   order gave directions for trial  including the service of witness statements  and
   set a trial date in July 2018. The order also stated that Mr Ss claim was suitable
   for mediation and provided details of an optional,  free mediation service.
ii) Order dated July 2018: The date on this order is the same as the trial date set in
    order (i) above. Its also dated  the same, and framed in identical terms, as the
    copy of the order Mr S gave MBNA save for containing the following additional
    direction:
   2. Judgement for the Defendant against  the Claimant for £12 witness expenses
   in 14 days.
I disagree with the conclusion  that these orders show  that the court  dismissed Mr Ss claim,
without considering it, in favour of mediation. I say that because  order (i) gave directions in
readiness for trial and set the trial date.  The date on order (ii) correlates to that trial date. So
it appears that the reference to mediation  in order (i) was entirely optional   presumably to
encourage settlement without the need for a court trial.
Furthermore, the content of order (ii) confirms that the court, having heard from both parties,
dismissed Mr Ss claim and gave judgment  for the airline. This conclusion  aligns with Mr Ss
initial account to both MBNA and this service that the court made a finding of extraordinary
circumstances.
So overall, it seems that a court trial went ahead and the court did give a judgment before
dismissing Mr Ss claim. I can therefore  only assume that mediation  wasnt undertaken. Or it
was but wasnt  successful.
But order  (ii) doesnt detail what issues the court considered when absolving the airline of
liability. So thats  the next issue Ive considered.  Mr Ss particulars of claim are a helpful
starting point  as they would have formed the basis of his claim against  the airline. These
were framed  as follows:
I bought business  class flight tickets with [airline] to specifically fly on their new dreamliner
aircraft in their business class cabin. The plane  had a broken window and consequently
didn't fly eventually being flown  out 2 days later. I missed a close  family wedding while being 
stuck in london  (sic),  along with hotel bills which were pre booked.having  (sic) specifically
paid above and beyond normal flight tickets, [airline]  let me down did not give the service i
paid for. What is being claimed is the flights (£850) excess based on a normal  economy
flight ticket, the hotel bills and transport (£500) and amounts to be decided  by a judge  for
missing a family wedding  due for which [airline]  were to blame for missing  and not flying on
the dreamliner aircraft, which had a great deal of publicity.  Also included is my professional
time (£200).  So far [airline] have failed to understand the details and yet to provide a
reasonable response.
So it seems  to me that Mr Ss claim wasnt limited solely  to the issue of the flight  delay  
contrary to what Mr S has told both MBNA  and this service. It clearly included  the airlines
failure to fly him on the new aircraft and to deliver  the goods and services  Mr S had
contracted for. He was also seeking the difference between the cost of his flight and an
economy flight.  All of this appears to be the same basis  for Mr Ss s.75 claim against MBNA,
including the remedy he is seeking,  and the complaint points that Mr S has brought  to this
service.
Ref: DRN74167894I see no reason why the court would  have limited their considerations solely to the flight
delay issue given the clear and wider  terms in which Mr Ss particulars of claim were framed.
This appears  to be corroborated by MBNAs  account  notes, which  confirm that around two
weeks after the trial Mr S called MBNA  and told them in court  court rules  in merch  favour
as in T&Cs beyond  here (sic) control. So it appears that the court had considered  the terms
of the contract  between  Mr S and the airline.
Furthermore, the airline also confirmed to our investigator  that to best (sic) of our knowledge
this matter was resolved  and settled.
Given all of this evidence,  I think its more  likely  than not that the courts judgment related  to
the same  issues that form the basis of Mr Ss s.75 claim  against  MBNA. Namely, the court
decided that the airline  wasnt liable to Mr S for the flight delay, change in aircraft  or
consequential losses Mr S was seeking.
I am not willing to revisit the courts findings  on those issues  so I accept  that the airline isnt
liable to Mr S for misrepresentation or breach of contract. It follows  that there is therefore
nothing to hold MBNA  jointly or severally  liable  for under  s.75.
As an aside,  even if this wasnt  the case, I dont  think it would be fair to ask MBNA to
compensate Mr S. Mr S has repeatedly  said that under s.75 MBNA  can seek  indemnity from
the supplier. But I disagree. Given that the court has absolved the airline of all liability  I think
its more likely than not that MBNA would now find it very difficult, if not impossible, to seek
any kind of indemnity.
Its for this reason, and the complications  that can arise from inconsistent decisions against  a
creditor and a supplier,  that its generally advisable to join the creditor  and supplier in the
same court action. Mr S didnt do that  which was entirely his prerogative. But it wouldnt
now be fair to ask MBNA to compensate him, with little prospects of indemnity,  given  Mr S
had an opportunity to join them in the court action but made  a personal choice not to.
For all of these reasons, I dont think MBNA acted unfairly in declining Mr Ss s.75 claim and
so Im not minded to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. That being said, I have asked MBNA whether
they would  nevertheless be willing to honour their offer of paying Mr S the amount our 
investigator suggested. MBNA have confirmed that they would be, so this is something that
Mr S will need  to contact MBNA  about  directly if he now wishes  to accept that offer.
In reaching these provisional  findings I think its important to note that I have found myself
placing far more reliance on the documents and evidence provided  by the court  than Mr Ss
own recollection and account. Not only because  the court  is an independent and official  third
party, but also because  there have been many inaccuracies in Mr Ss account. In particular,
his account that his court claim  related to the flight delay only.  Given he would have drafted
his particulars of claim  himself I think its likely that he knew  or ought to have  known  that
this wasnt the case.
Its also unclear why Mr S changed  his account part way through his complaint to say that
his claim had been dismissed with no judgment. I think its likely he knew  this wasnt
accurate given his initial  account that the court decided  there  had been extraordinary
circumstances. He also appears to have failed  to correct our investigators incorrect
conclusion that the claim  was dismissed in favour of mediation  again, something he would
have known didnt  happen.
Ref: DRN74167895Finally, Ive also noted Mr Ss version of order (ii)  from which  the highly relevant and
important second  direction  of the court, giving judgment for the Defendant, was missing. This
would have been central to the s.75 claim and so should have been disclosed to both MBNA
and this service.
the response to my provisional  decision
MBNA replied to say that they have nothing further  to add in response to my provisional  
decision.
Mr S has responded with several points. Although Ive considered all of them, for ease Ive 
summarised the main  ones as follows:
I have failed to mention  and consider the investigators findings. Mr S was only 
disputing the amount  awarded and so my provisional decision now unfairly 
undermines those  findings. 
Furthermore, MBNA have accepted they have a liability which  theyre prepared  to 
pay on a goodwill basis. My provisional decision to not uphold  the complaint is 
therefore unjust. 
My interpretation of the court orders  and my provisional findings in relation to the 
issues that the court considered are unjust and irrational. I have imagined and 
speculated on events  that may or may not have happened. The Court reported  the 
case as dismissed so thats  all that can be adduced in relation to what happened  
with the claim against the airline. There is therefore  no basis  for me to re-interpret the 
court decision, which the investigator  has checked, in a way to say that MBNA has 
no liability.
Ive wrongly stated that the court considered Mr Ss claim against  MBNA as part of 
his court  claim against the airline.  
Mr Ss court claim was dismissed  on the technical  reason of extraordinary 
circumstances and without consideration of the merits  or the breach  of contract. The 
Judge therefore never got to discuss Mr Ss financial losses and claim and because 
he was a litigant  in person his position  over losses was disregarded.
I have failed to mention  the point that Mr S is entitled to compensation for the delay 
under the Montreal  Convention. He has provided an email from the airline that says 
he is owed compensation but it was never paid to him. So this is something that 
MBNA are additionally  liable for. 
Ive failed to recognise that Mr Ss claim for compensation was because he wasnt 
provided with the service  he expected  and paid for over the telephone. Its also 
incorrect to suggest that Mr S could have taken Court action against both MBNA and 
the airline because MBNA would only become liable once the airline failed to pay 
compensation for its breach  of contract.  
Ive also failed to recognise the length  of time this complaint has been at this service.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  my provisional 
findings in light of Mr Ss response to it. 
An ombudsmans review  is entirely impartial and independent of an investigators findings.  
Im not bound by the investigators  findings  and nor do I need  to consider or reference them. 
Ref: DRN74167896I can reach a different  outcome  if thats  the fair and reasonable thing to do based on all of 
the evidence.  Im also not restricted  to only considering the points that Mr S disagreed with. 
Plus MBNA disagreed  with all of the findings and they are an equal  party  to this complaint. 
So my review of the complaint in its entirety, and completely afresh, wasnt  unjust or unfair. 
Its also important to clarify that MBNA  has at no point accepted liability  as Mr S suggests.  In 
confirming their decision to offer the amount awarded by the investigator  they made it 
abundantly clear that they dont agree with the investigators findings.  But they were 
nevertheless willing  to make the offer as a gesture of goodwill only, aimed at settling the 
matter, and without accepting liability.  So, again,  my provisional  decision isnt unjust.
I disagree that my provisional findings  in relation to the Court orders  and the issues  that the 
Court considered were  based on speculation and imaginary  events. Instead, my provisional 
findings were based  on an in depth  analysis of the evidence available to me. 
Mr S says that he was present during the Court hearing and so he knows what was  and 
wasnt  considered. But his account  on that has been inconsistent as Ive outlined in my 
provisional findings. And was contradicted by the court orders, his particulars of claim and 
MBNAs account notes.  
Furthermore, Mr S hasnt provided  an explanation  for why he provided  MBNA with an 
incomplete version of the second  court order. At best this was an oversight. But at worst it 
could be indicative of a deliberate withholding  of key information  knowing that the Court had 
already considered the same issues, which would  prejudice the s.75 claim.  
I make  no finding in relation to that but simply wish to highlight that, whatever the reasons for 
the inconsistencies, Mr Ss evidence and testimony  as to what the Court  did  and didnt  
consider remains unreliable. In these circumstances, Im entitled to consider the other  
evidence available  to me to help me decide the point. 
To that end, its wholly inaccurate for Mr S to suggest that the Court reported the claim as 
dismissed and so thats all I can adduce. This was only one part of the second  Court order. 
The Court also gave  judgement for the airline. So it seems clear to me that a judgment was 
given  which actually  aligns with Mr Ss original  account to MBNA and this service before 
he changed it.
That Court order needs to be read in conjunction  with the particulars  of claim. I have no 
evidence to suggest that the nature of the claim changed during  the proceedings or was 
limited to only some of the issues. So in directing Claim dismissed  I think  its more likely  
than not that the Court  was referring  to the whole of the particulars of claim. Plus MBNAs  
notes  which were only a few weeks after the Court hearing  and therefore 
contemporaneous  confirm that not only was a ruling given but that the Court considered 
the T&Cs. All of this evidence contradicts  Mr Ss further comments that the Court  only 
considered a technical point, which further  adds to the unreliability  of his evidence.  
As an aside,  Mr S has referred  to the investigator checking the Courts decision.  Im unsure 
what he means by this. As Ive explained in my provisional findings,  the investigator 
requested copies of the Court documents. These were received from the Court  with no 
explanation as to what the Court considered. The investigator interpreted these documents  
for himself. For the reasons Ive already  outlined  in my provisional  findings I dont agree with 
that interpretation.    
Ref: DRN74167897So I still think its more likely than not, based  on the evidence, that the Court gave a 
judgment on all of the issues raised in Mr Ss particulars of claim given that this is the usual 
Court process unless particulars of claim are amended. As I say, I have  no evidence that this 
happened. And those issues mirror  the s.75 claim against MBNA. Given that Im still not 
prepared to re-visit the Courts findings, I accept that the airline was absolved of liability  for 
the breach of contract  or misrepresentation that form the basis of the s.75 claim against 
MBNA. 
For clarity,  this isnt the same as saying the Court considered Mr Ss claim against MBNA  
which is something he has suggested.  But rather that the Court has already considered the 
airlines liability for the issues  that form the basis of the s.75 claim. That is relevant to 
whether or not MBNA is therefore jointly liable under s.75 for the reasons already explained 
within my provisional findings.
Its also important to note that both the particulars of claim and s.75 raised the issue that 
Mr S didnt receive the service he paid for. Something which I clearly referenced  in my 
provisional findings. So I dont think that Ive failed to recognise that Mr Ss complaint is 
about the service  being misrepresented to him over the phone.  
As for Mr Ss point that the Court didnt  consider  his financial losses  it may be that he is 
conflating the issue of liability and loss. Having  absolved the airline of liability its entirely  
regular that the Court  wouldnt have considered losses. Its the same  for s.75  the airline 
must have  breached their contract  with Mr S or misrepresented  it in order  for MBNA to be 
held jointly  liable. That liability  hasnt been  established. So it follows that the issue of 
financial loss and compensation  doesnt  arise.  
Ive also considered Mr Ss point  about  the Montreal Convention and the airlines email  to 
him. Its far from clear  whether s.75 captures convention rights, given that it only applies to 
breach of contract and misrepresentation. But in any event those convention rights arent 
absolute and, even  on Mr Ss own version  of events, the Court absolved the airline of liability  
for the flight delay. The Courts judgment  on this point therefore takes precedence. So I dont 
agree that compensation for the flight delay is something that MBNA ought  to be additionally 
liable for under s.75.   
As for Mr Ss comments in relation to taking court action against MBNA  I wasnt  suggesting 
separate action.  The point  to note is that it would have  been a perfectly viable option to join 
MBNA as an additional Defendant to the claim against the airline.  That being said, not doing  
so is also perfectly acceptable.  But it was Mr Ss choice to conduct  the litigation in that way, 
so it wouldnt now be fair to place MBNA in a situation where theyre  unlikely to be 
indemnified.
Finally, the amount of time that Mr Ss complaint  has been at this service isnt something I 
can take into account when considering the merits of his complaint against MBNA.  In any 
event, I can see from Mr Ss file that this has already  been addressed with him directly  under 
separate cover.
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind. I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr S but 
Im satisfied that my provisional findings, and my further findings above,  are based on a 
thorough analysis of the evidence available to me and nothing has been advanced to 
change that analysis.  
Ref: DRN74167898But as Ive already outlined,  MBNA have offered to pay Mr S 25% of the amount he paid for 
his flight. Mr S should contact them directly if he now wishes to accept this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont think  MBNA Limited  need  to do 
anything to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2021.
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7416789