K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Well Dunn Limiteds  (WDL) handling of his van insurance  policy.
background
Mr H was in the process of buying  a new van which he wanted to insure.  He said he called 
WDL and they gave him a quote  of £1875.90  to insure the new van. But as the delivery  of 
the new van was delayed, he decided in the interim  to insure an old van that he already had 
so that he wouldnt  be without a vehicle.
So he called WDL again to get a quote to insure his old van. During  that call he explained 
that he had already been given a quote for the new van, but he wanted  to insure his old van 
and later transfer the policy  onto the new van once he received it. WDL told him that they 
would get him a quote for the old van from the underwriter, so they asked him to call back 
later that day. Mr H asked  how he could  later transfer the policy over to the new van once he 
received it. WDL told him that once he gets his new van they can transfer the policy  over to 
it, but they would  get him a revised  quote  on the new van or they might have to rebroke the 
policy.
As agreed,  Mr H called WDL back to find out how much the premium for the old van would 
cost. Mr H again asked  if he took out the policy on the old van whether he would be able to 
transfer it over to the new van once he received it. WDL said he could, but the price may 
change and there might  be an increase  in premium. WDL said the cost of the premium for 
the old van was £1,875.  Mr H pointed out that the quote he was given for the new van was 
also £1,875. WDLs  call handler responded by saying theyre  the same price . Mr H said 
that it seemed  a bit odd.
Mr H took out the policy on the old van on 2 June 2018. And when he received his new van 
a few weeks later he asked for the policy to be transferred.  That happened on 22 June 2018. 
But WDL said he had to pay an additional  premium of £345.03 (inclusive of insurance 
premium tax). Mr H wasnt  happy, but he went ahead with the amended policy. He 
complained saying he was told the premiums for the two vans were the same so he 
shouldnt have been charged an additional premium for the new van.
WDL didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said they had told him that the premium for the 
new van might be higher. Mr H didn't think that was fair, so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He felt that what WDL told Mr H was 
confusing so he suggested they refund Mr H half of the additional premium together with 8% 
interest. He also said WDL should  pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. As WDL didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 1 August 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I have listened  to the two calls provided to me by WDL. The call handler during the 
first call did tell Mr H that they would get a revised  quote for the new van. And the call 
handler during  the second call said the premium for the new van might increase. But 
Ref: DRN77965562when Mr H pointed out to the second call handler  that the quote he was given for the 
old van was the same as the quote for the new van, the call handlers response was 
to confirm they were  the same price. Mr H expressed surprise by saying that was 
odd, because the old van was some years  older  than the new van. But the call 
handler didnt  go onto to address Mr Hs obvious surprise or to further explain the 
premium for the new van might be higher. While  I accept he said that earlier in the 
call, his confirmation that the two premiums  were the same price  was the last 
comment he made on the issue. So I can understand  why Mr H expected  the 
premium for the new van to be the same  and that he wouldnt have to pay an 
additional premium.  Looking at the information given by WDLs call handlers  in the 
whole, I think they did create confusion and things could have been  explained  
clearer. I think Mr H had a legitimate expectation that when the policy was transferred 
over to the new van, he wouldnt have to pay an additional premium.  I therefore 
intend to uphold this complaint.
I note that WDL are the broker and not the underwriter. And WDL are correct in 
saying the premiums were set by the underwriter. While that is correct, WDL were 
responsible for the information they gave to Mr H. As broker, WDL were responsible 
for giving Mr H sufficient and clear information about  the policy to enable him to make 
an informed decision,  which  I dont think they did.
When Mr H was asked to pay the additional premium, he could have  refused  and 
cancelled the policy. But as he was outside of the 14 day cooling off period, I think  
WDL would  have charged him a cancellation  fee. I think  it would have been  
reasonable for WDL at that stage to tell Mr H that he could cancel the policy without 
penalty (cancellation fee) and only charge him for the time he was on cover,  but I 
understand that didnt happen.  But even if Mr H was able to cancel without penalty, 
he would  still have  been at some disadvantage  because the period between 2 and 22 
June 2018 wouldnt  have counted towards  him earning a years  no claims bonus.
To put things right, I intend to require WDL to refund  Mr H half of the additional  
premium he paid. I understand  that he was paying  his premium in instalments having 
taken out credit. And that the additional premium was added to his loan, on which he 
was paying interest.  So the refund of half of the additional premium  should include 
the interest he paid on that portion of his loan. Simple interest at 8% a year should  
then be added to the total  the total being half the additional premium plus the loan 
interest on that amount  from the date(s) he paid it until the refund is made. I also 
understand this issue has been a source  of distress and inconvenience  for Mr H. To 
address that, I also intend to require WDL to pay Mr H £150  compensation. In my 
consideration of the compensation to be awarded to Mr H, I have taken into account  
the fact that WDL  waived  the mid-term adjustment fee.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr H accepted  my provisional decision.  
WDL didnt provide any comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
Ref: DRN77965563my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Well Dunn Limited  to:
Refund Mr H half of the additional  premium  he was charged when the policy was 
amended to cover his new van. Added to that amount should be the loan interest he 
paid. Simple interest  at 8% a year should be added to the total refund due to him 
from the date(s) he paid that portion of the additional  premium  until the date he is 
refunded.1
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr H has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman 
1 If WDL consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell M H how much they have taken off. They should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7796556