K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained about  the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) handled a 
claim under her home  insurance  policy following an escape of water.
background
In late November 2018, Ms B suffered an escape of water  at her property which caused 
damage to her kitchen,  including to the ceiling.  She fixed  the problem which had caused  the 
water to escape and made a claim to RSA.
RSA arranged for its surveyor to attend the property  on 4 December  2018.  The surveyor 
noted the damage and said a drying  company  would  need to be appointed to dry out the 
property.
On 14 December 2018, the drying  company attended the property but said there was a risk 
that asbestos was present in the kitchen ceiling and so this would needed to be tested.
On 21 December 2018, a surveyor employed by a specialist company (which Ill call R) 
arrived to test for asbestos.  He took away material for testing but advised Ms B he was 99% 
sure that no asbestos  was present.  On this basis, Ms B felt happy to stay in the property 
over the Christmas period. The surveyor got Ms B to sign a form.
Following this, Ms B took down the rest of the partially damaged  ceiling.
On 9 January  2019, Ms B was informed by RSAs surveyor  that the asbestos test had come 
back positive. The surveyor told her that because she had taken down the ceiling and 
potentially contaminated other areas  of the house, she may be liable for additional costs.
Ms B contacted R but the second  surveyor disputed he had given Ms B any assurance about  
the safety of the property. He said the document she had signed had confirmed she agreed  
to stay in the property  against his advice and to waive her rights  accordingly.
Ms B said this wasnt  explained to her at the time she signed the document. She continued 
to challenge R about this. A few days later, R contacted Ms B and confirmed it had made  a 
clerical error. It said Ms Bs property didnt have  any asbestos.
RSA was then able to proceed with the resolution  of Ms Bs claim. However, she was 
unhappy at what  had happened. She complained to RSA.
RSA acknowledged  that mistakes had been made by its contractors. It offered Ms B £100 
compensation.
Ms B considered the compensation  was too little. She referred her complaint to us. She said 
that RSAs poor handling of the claim meant  she had been forced to cancel a planned family 
get-together over Christmas  at her house. She said shed been  put to unnecessary  worry 
that she had put both her and her partners  health  at risk. And she said the second surveyor 
had been rude to her over the telephone  when  she challenged him over the version of 
events.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He thought  it 
unlikely that the claim  could have resolved before  Christmas  even if it had been handled 
Ref: DRN73405222properly. In his opinion, while RSA had provided a poor service, its offer of compensation 
was fair. 
Ms B didnt accept the investigators  findings. She considered that if the first surveyor had 
highlighted the asbestos issue as he should  have done, it would have avoided her needing 
to re-arrange her Christmas plans at the last minute. She said that the second surveyor had 
been more than just rude and had told her completely different things to that which he had 
said during his visit. She said if she hadnt continued to query the positive  test result,  it may 
have led to her incurring the unnecessary  cost of removing non-existent asbestos.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
There is no doubt that Ms B received a poor service from RSAs  contractors. The initial 
surveyor should have  highlighted  the potential risk of asbestos. This would have resulted in 
the second surveyor attending  the property sooner. R then made a clerical error which 
resulted in Ms B being put to unnecessary stress. And when she sought to query this test 
result, the second surveyor behaved in an unacceptable way over the telephone.
I accept that this would  have  all been upsetting  for Ms B. However, I consider that even if the 
initial surveyor had identified the potential presence  of asbestos, it wouldnt have necessarily 
made a difference to Ms Bs Christmas plans. This is because  Ms B cancelled  her plans 
when she understood there was a risk of asbestos  being  present. Even  if the initial surveyor  
had highlighted  the risk of asbestos, there is no guarantee that R would have been able to 
attend the property and obtain a test result to show the property was asbestos-free before 
Christmas. And even if it had been able to produce  such a result  in time, it would have been 
very close to Christmas. So in view of the uncertainty as to whether her property was safe, I 
think Ms B and her family would likely have made alternative arrangements  for Christmas in 
any case, albeit  that they may have  had a little more  time to organise this.
And while Ms B mentions  how she may have ended up incurring unnecessary costs for 
removing non-existent asbestos, she didnt  end up incurring these costs.  So I dont need to 
take this into account. I do need  to take into account  the worry she would have experienced 
at thinking she might be liable for these costs, along  with the worry that she had jeopardised 
her and her partners health,  though  this uncertainty was only for a few days  until R 
confirmed it had given  her wrong  information.
Overall, taking into account the stress  caused by the above,  and the upset which would  have 
been caused by the second surveyors unacceptable approach  during the telephone call, Im 
satisfied that RSAs offer of £100 compensation is adequate. I dont consider that it needs to 
pay anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN73405223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7340522