K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company  represented by liquidators F, has complained about its professional 
indemnity insurer Arch Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. Arch has avoided the cover C had 
(treated it as though it never existed)  and as a result  a number  of claims that C had made 
regarding client complaints involving court action have been  declined.
background
C took out cover with Arch in 2011. At the time it answered various questions Arch asked 
including some about its record keeping and compliance with regulations as well as one 
about previous  claims. The policy documentation explained that the answers to the 
questions would convert the points into warranties on the policy and breaching  them could 
result in the policy becoming void.
Continuing cover  was arranged in 2012  and ended a year later in October 2013. Prior to 
cover ending several clients made complaints  about advice received from C and these 
issues were reported  to Arch. In September 2013  C went into voluntary liquidation  and the 
liquidators, F, chased Arch for an update on its position in respect of the claims.
Arch told F that in its view it had no liability as C had breached the warranties created when 
its questions were  answered during the contract  process, thus voiding the cover.  F, with 
assistance from C, disputed Archs finding  but Arch wouldnt agree  to reinstate the cover so 
F made a complaint  to this service  on behalf of C.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. F asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the matter and the complaint  was passed to me. 
I also didnt think the complaint  should be upheld but for different reasons to those set out by 
the adjudicator.  I issued  a provisional decision to explain my findings:
C is a commercial customer of Arch and the policy in question  was commercial in nature 
being designed to offer cover against claims made against C in its professional capacity. But 
C is still an eligible complainant under  the rules that govern this service. That is still the case 
even though C is in liquidation,  although  this status  does require it to be represented by the 
liquidators, rather than one of its directors as would otherwise be the case.
Even though  C is a commercial customer I dont think its fair for Arch to seek to rely on a 
breach of warranty to avoid cover. The Arch policy doesnt contain warranties as standard  as 
many commercial policies do. Rather during the contract process  warranties are created  
when answers are given  to questions and the agreement, based on those answers is 
implemented. This process  is one that has been  considered to be unfair,  even in respect  of 
commercial contracts, and legislation has prohibited it. Whilst the legislation wasnt  in effect  
at the time of the contracts  in question here, I think it would be unfair to allow Arch to rely on 
an unfair process that has since been  legislated against.
However, that doesnt mean that I think Archs action  was necessarily unfair  or 
unreasonable. Thats because whether the questions Arch asked became warranties or not 
C still had a duty to answer the questions Arch asked it accurately. And if it didnt, and Arch 
can show that it wouldnt  have offered cover  if it had received accurate information, then 
Archs action of avoiding  cover will likely be seen to be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN78755552There were two main issues for Arch  one was to do with the records C kept and the other 
was the fact of a previous  client complaint  that C had not told it about. Im not going to say 
much about  the complaint because Archs  underwriter has confirmed  that even if it had been 
told about this, it wouldnt have prevented  it from offering cover. So I no longer need  to 
consider the veracity or reasonableness of the arguments previously raised by both sides on 
this topic.
This draws me to the concerns Arch raised in respect of Cs record  keeping. As part of its 
consideration of liability Arch reverted to solicitors. The solicitors gathered information in 
respect of Cs client  files and assessed their content. The solicitors reported  to Arch that Cs 
records were flawed,  with many key documents missing. It was felt that C hadnt  answered 
the question about record keeping accurately and this is what led Arch to avoid the cover.  
Archs underwriter has now confirmed  that if Arch had been told of the flaws  its solicitor felt it 
had found in respect of Cs record keeping then it wouldnt have offered cover.
Arch had specifically  asked C whether it kept its files in compliance with the regulators 
timescales. It also asked if Cs files demonstrate and contain  key documents  such as 
suitability letters, client questionnaires, disclosure documents and risk warnings. C had 
answered yes. Archs conclusion having  considered its solicitors  findings was that C should 
have said no.
From what  Ive seen Archs sample  extended  to only two case  files. But Im not convinced 
the small sample size is relevant. Thats because in one of the files considered by Archs  
solicitors it was found that whilst a suitability  letter  in respect of some initial  advice given to a 
client was kept,  later advice records were  missing. I find it unlikely that later advice records 
were destroyed because  they no longer had to be kept (according to regulatory timescales) 
whilst those relating  to initial (arguably older) advice were left to remain. Rather the patchy 
nature of the records makes me think its most likely  the file was always incomplete. And
I think this kind of missing  data is indicative of general poor record keeping. This leads me to 
conclude that this is likely a trend  across  all of Cs records. I think C didnt answer the 
question on record keeping accurately.
In coming to that provisional conclusion I have taken  into account Cs suggestion that the 
files are incomplete due to corruption  of electronic data. However, Ive seen no expert 
opinion to support this view. Further, I find it unlikely given that Archs  solicitors reported that 
all files could be opened and read.  I know C has also at times  suggested  that there  might  be 
some other hard copy documents  available but if this were  the case then Id expect it to 
produce them. I also cant see any good  reason why an initial advice letter  would be stored 
electronically whilst later documents for the same  client were kept only on paper. I think  
thats unlikely.  Im satisfied that Arch made every effort to gather the file data that existed
and I think its reached a reasonable conclusion based on the data provided to it.
As I mentioned  above, Archs underwriter has confirmed that if it had known about  the 
significant gaps  in Cs records it wouldnt have agreed to offer it cover.  Therefore, Im 
satisfied that Archs decision to avoid  the cover that had been in place for C was fair and 
reasonable. Im not inclined to make it reinstate the policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
Arch said it had no further comment to make. Cs director asked that I reconsider.
Ref: DRN78755553Cs director said that Arch could have sent a team to assess its client  files before it agreed  to 
offer cover. He said Arch was just trying to find any loophole to get out of liability. He noted 
that it had reviewed another full file and that it had found no issues with it. He said like most 
companies C had been  in the process of digitising its files but hadnt transferred everything,  
so it was unfair to assume that the digital files represented all its paperwork. It wasnt true to 
say the digital records were the only records  hed be prepared  to trawl through the old 
computer and paper records  he has but that would take a long time. He said this would have 
been easier if Arch had asked for the records whilst C was still a going  concern rather than 
waiting until it was approaching liquidation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C was obliged to tell Arch of all relevant information especially that related to the questions 
Arch had chosen to ask. And Arch was entitled to rely on the answers  given. It wasnt  up to it 
to think the answers  might  be flawed and take action to check to ensure the right information 
had been provided. That isnt how insurance works.
Even if one file was fully completed that doesnt mean all files were. Nor does it make me 
think that it is unlikely  that there was a pattern of poor record keeping. Whilst digitising 
records is a gradual  process I find it unlikely  that files would be dealt with in such a way as to 
leave key, regulator required parts of them in a separate place. I dont accept that an 
incomplete digitisation  process gives a reasonable answer to why key documents were  
missing from the digital file Arch was presented with (and I referred  to provisionally).
Arch asked several times to be sure it had all files. And Cs director knew it was looking for 
all paperwork. If he had other files, that may have  contained missing  data, he should have 
provided them to it then. Based on the information  that was made  available  to Arch Im 
satisfied its conclusion that Cs files werent kept in line with regulatory requirements  was fair 
and reasonable.  
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think the liquidation process has likely prejudiced Cs 
positon. The liquidators had access to all business files and co-operated with Arch. I accept 
that files had to be recalled from storage  which wouldnt  have been  necessary if Arch had 
asked for details beforehand. But I cant see that affected the outcome of what was found in 
the files and I previously  found it was unlikely that these stored and recalled  files had 
become corrupted.   
I understand the difficult position C is now in. However, that doesnt mean I can fairly and 
reasonably make Arch reinstate Cs cover  and deal with the claims.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make  any award against  Arch Insurance Company  
(Europe) Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN78755554ombudsman
Ref: DRN7875555