K820x#14complaint
Mr I is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited turned down a claim he made on his 
international health insurance plan.
background
Mr I took out an international health insurance plan (the plan) in late December 2015.
In June 2018 Mr I underwent surgery on his back (the surgery). And a month later, in 
July 2018, he made  a claim on the plan to cover the costs of the surgery. 
AXA turned down that claim as the plan hed taken out had been underwritten on a 
moratorium basis. It said Mr I had experienced symptoms relating to the back  issues  for 
which he required the surgery  in the five years  prior to taking out the policy - and since the 
start of the plan,  that condition hadnt  been trouble-free for two years in a row.
Mr I doesnt think thats fair. He also says the term in the plan, relied upon by AXA to decline 
his claim,  is ambiguous.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Is complaint. Mr I disagrees. His complaint has now been  
passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
The plan says the policyholder may be covered for treatment of conditions  they were aware 
of - or already had - when they joined the plan. AXA refers to these as pre-existing 
conditions and says cover for such conditions depends on the underwriting  terms the 
policyholder joined on.
Mr I joined  the plan on a moratorium  basis. As such, the plan says it doesnt cover  treatment 
for medical  problems Mr I had in the five years  before he joined the plan until:
he has been a member for two years in a row, and
he has had a period of two years in a row that have been trouble-free from that 
condition. 
The medical information form completed by Mr Is doctor, in support of Mr Is claim, dated 
July 2018 (the medical information form) describes Mr Is symptoms  as lateral recess 
stenosis, ligament hypertrophy & disc bulge. He says these symptoms first started in 
February 2011. So, all in all, Im satisfied that AXA has reasonably concluded that the issues  
Mr I had with his back were present within the five years before he joined the plan. 
Its not disputed  that by the date of the surgery, Mr I had been a member of the plan for two 
years in a row. But for the surgery to be covered Mr Is back condition  wouldve also needed 
to have been trouble-free for a period of two years in a row. 
Under the plan,  for the medical condition Mr I needed treatment for, trouble-free means he 
hadnt:
Ref: DRN75438722had a medical opinion from a medical  practitioner
taken medication (including  over-the-counter drugs)
followed a special  diet
had symptoms
had medical treatment
visited a medical practitioner, complementary practitioner, optician  or dentist.
The medical information form asks Mr Is doctor: Has the patient received any previous 
consultation(s)/ treatment or hospitalisation for this condition or for associated conditions or 
symptoms?
Mr Is doctor  has answered yes, and says Mr I had physiotherapy in 2017.
Im satisfied that physiotherapy amounts to medical  treatment. As the physiotherapy took 
place within  two years  from the date Mr I joined the plan, Im satisfied that AXA hasnt 
unfairly or unreasonably concluded that his back condition hadnt been trouble-free  for a 
period of two years  in a row by the time of the surgery. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Is comments including what  he says about  the term 
requiring his condition to be trouble-free for two years in a row being ambiguous. He says his 
condition had been trouble-free for four years in a row between the period 2012 and 2016  
which straddles the date on which  he joined the plan. He says that nothing in the policy 
makes clear  that the condition had to be trouble-free  for two years in a row after the plan 
was taken out. However, reading the term as a whole, Im satisfied AXAs application  of that 
term is fair and reasonable.
I also note there has been some  confusion as to whether  the terms of the plan have 
changed over time to say: youve  had a period of two years in a row, since you joined, that 
have been trouble-free from that condition  (my emphasis). Mr I says if thats the case, it 
supports what he says about  that term not being  clear in the first place. However,  having  
compared the terms of the plan dated  October 2016 to the terms of the plan dated  
April 2018, the terms are the same.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr I to accept or reject  my decision before 10 November  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7543872