K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out during a 
meeting alongside a loan in 2009. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent to add the 
policy to his loan.  Mr W has told us that he wasnt aware the policy had been  added to his 
loan, and that given the choice he wouldnt have taken the PPI. Lloyds has sent us a copy of 
the available  paperwork from the time Mr W took the loan and PPI. The application  form Mr 
W completed  when  he applied for the loan had a separate section for PPI that Mr W has 
ticked and signed  in agreement to take PPI, as well as separately signing for the loan. 
Mr W has told us that the arrow  on the application  indicating where  to sign doesnt  give an 
option to decline  the policy so he wasnt aware that he had a choice.  Ive thought  carefully 
about this, but I dont  think  its unusual for businesss to highlight where on forms consumers 
may want to sign to get certain products, like PPI. I dont think  this is the same  as telling 
someone that the PPI is a compulsory part of the loan.  
The fact that Mr W had to sign for the policy separately, I think shows it was separate from 
the loan, otherwise the application  would only have required Mr W to sign once for the loan 
and the PPI combined. Also Mr W was applying for a loan which came with an important 
financial commitment. I would have expected him to read the document  before  signing in 
agreement with the PPI, and if he had any questions about what he was signing for, to have 
asked them at the time. So with this in mind  I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr W didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may 
not remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr W 
has told us he would  have  received  good sick pay and had redundancy cover  through his 
employer when he took the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ws sick 
pay and for longer than he would have received full pay. It would also have paid out in 
circumstances Mr Ws redundancy cover wouldnt have.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time, he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN75811832Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr W about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest Mr W paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr W paid if the loan was paid off early.  Lloyds should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest on 
the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7581183