K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
Mr H. Allianz didnt  actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1992 alongside a store credit account. Mr H 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account  in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr H has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why:
 The form, which Mr H filled in and signed, does  set out the PPI as a choice,  which you 
make by ticking a box. There  is a tick on the form Mr H signed. So I think  Mr H will 
have known he had a choice.
 It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable  for 
Mr Hs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr H to decide whether it was suitable.
 However Allianz did need to give Mr H clear and fair information, so he could make  an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mr H. So Ive thought about  whether better information is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mr Hs circumstances  at the time,  even if hed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to his decision. I say this because its fairly likely, given the type of 
employment he had, that the PPI could have paid out for longer than his full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or 
redundancy pay; and it would have put off the time when  hed need to fall back  on any 
savings. Also it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of the significant  
exclusions in the policy. 
 Mr H told our adjudicator that the words strongly recommended on the form implied 
he had to take the PPI or that it was a good  product. But I dont think this could 
reasonably be taken as meaning  you had to take the PPI  especially as it was clear  
there was a choice  about it. And the wording on the form was pre-printed,  so it would 
be clear that Allianz werent saying it was necessarily a good product for Mr Hs 
Ref: DRN76514232individual circumstances.  I dont  think it was necessarily wrong for Allianz to promote 
the product  it could have been potentially useful for some customers. 
 Mr H said his relative, who took a similar  policy a few years later, has had her 
complaint upheld by the business. I dont know  the circumstances of that case, though  
I do know there are many different  elements that can affect  whether  or not a case  is 
upheld, and the way policies were  sold probably changed  from year to year.  But I can 
look only at the information relevant to Mr Hs particular case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7651423