K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complaints that Nationwide Building Society pushed her into investing when she 
wasnt in the right frame  of mind to make  such decisions.  She complains that at the time she 
wasnt able to think too far ahead in relation to the money she had recently inherited, and 
really wanted to leave  it in her bank account.  
background
In October  2011 Mrs H met with an adviser  from Nationwide. As part of the discussions she 
had with him, he established that Mrs H had a minimal attitude to risk  in other  words,  she 
was unwilling to take virtually any risk with her capital. She had very little knowledge and 
experience of investing, and was reliant on her husband for managing household finances. 
She also explained that she had been  caring for her mother, who had recently  died, 
throughout her illness. As a result, she had no desire to return to work. She had around 
£50,000 to invest, although she also had larger cash reserves in excess of £200,000  from 
the inheritance.   
The adviser recommended a Protected  Equity Bond  (PEB),  with a portion of the investment 
being wrapped in an ISA. 
Mrs H began making withdrawals from the PEB in January  2015,  when she withdrew just 
over £9,600. She then made two further  withdrawals  in March (around £11,900) and August 
2015 (around £14,200),  before withdrawing  the remainder of the funds between February 
and October 2016.  
In 2018 Mrs H complained about the suitability of the advice. Nationwide  looked into her 
complaint and agreed that the advice it had provided  to her was unsuitable. In short,  it 
agreed that at the time Mrs H wasnt in a position  to tie up her money in fixed  term products. 
So it compared the performance of her investments with a benchmark  this service generally  
uses for consumers who arent  willing to take any risk with their money - the average return 
from fixed rate bonds with 12  17 months maturity.  When comparing the actual return  on 
her investment with what it would  have returned  had it been invested  in line with the 
benchmark, Mrs H didnt  suffer a loss. 
Mrs H remained  unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She explained that she 
felt she had lost out on a return  on her investment as a result of having to constantly 
withdraw money from it. She also found it upsetting to have to ask permission to withdraw  
the money. She thought  that at the time she shouldve just left it in an instant access  
account, given  that she wasnt in the frame of mind to consider  her long-term objectives. She 
also said she was advised to invest another £50,000  in Nationwides  3 year fixed  rate 
account at around  the same time, and that product  also wasnt  right for her.
One of our adjudicators looked  into her complaint. He didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to say that Mrs H had been  advised to invest £50,000 in Nationwides  3 year fixed 
rate account. He thought,  on balance,  that the advisor had probably informed Mrs H about it, 
but that wasnt the same as providing  advice. So he didnt  think  Nationwide  needed to do 
anything about  that particular investment. However he agreed that the advice Nationwide did 
provide to Mrs H was unsuitable. And he thought Nationwide should  do more  to put things 
right for her. He thought she would still have wanted  to invest  in a fixed  term account for at 
least four years.  So he recommended  Nationwide  should use that as a benchmark for the 
Ref: DRN72405492first four years, and the Bank of England average  return from fixed rate bonds with 12  17 
months maturity for the remaining period. 
Mrs H agreed  with the adjudicator, but Nationwide  didnt  agree. It said that it was clear  from 
Mrs Hs complaint that she wasnt looking to invest for the long term at the time, and the fact 
that she had decided to make  significant  withdrawals a couple of years  before the end of the 
term demonstrated that this type of fixed term product wasnt right for her. 
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019. In it I said:
The key issue in dispute is how to put things right for Mrs H. I should say that this isnt about 
which of the two options (the one the adjudicator recommended  or the one Nationwide  
recommended) wouldve given Mrs H the best return. That wouldnt be fair and reasonable. 
The issue  is what would represent the sort of return Mrs H would have been likely to achieve 
had she been  suitably advised, bearing in mind what she has said was her frame of mind  at 
the time,  as well as the facts as were  able to ascertain them from the evidence  available. 
In reaching my provisional conclusions Ive had to pay particular attention to Mrs Hs 
testimony, because shes been very clear about  her frame of mind at the time of the advice. 
But Ive also reviewed the available documents from the time. 
Mrs H has been clear  about two key aspects of her complaint:
She wasnt in a frame  of mind, at the time,  to make long-term decisions about the 
money she had inherited following  her mothers passing.  
She found it upsetting to have to make requests to withdraw her money before the 
end of the term. 
Ive also considered the investment report and fact find at the time. These show that:
Mrs H had a minimal  attitude  to risk and had a low capacity for loss given the limited 
amount of disposable income she had. 
Her objective was capital growth  over a term, but equally she didnt want  to put this 
money towards her pension because she wanted  greater flexibility and choice than 
she would have  with a pension. 
She had been  caring for her mother throughout her illness  until her death  shortly 
before her review.  Mrs H had explained that, as a result,  she had no desire to return  
to work and the adviser had taken  that into account when establishing how much  her 
emergency fund should be. 
Mrs H was then advised to invest in the PEB which had a 6 year term. 
Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded Mrs H was in a position  at the time to make 
what wouldve effectively been  a medium to long term decision to invest  her money in a four 
or five year fixed term account.  I appreciate there  are references  to Mrs H being  prepared to 
invest her money for six years  but that does seem  particularly convenient given that the 
PEB had a six year term.  Im not persuaded thats  an entirely reliable  account  of Mrs Hs 
objective at the time, nor whether she specifically wanted to lock her money  away for that 
period of time. 
In fact I think Mrs Hs complaint, and her recollection  of her frame of mind at the time is 
consistent with other  elements of the fact find. For example her minimal attitude to risk, her 
Ref: DRN72405493lack of a disposable income  as well her personal  circumstances, having recently suffered 
bereavement. I think given all the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs case, investing for the 
long term at that particular point in time by putting this money in a product she was 
potentially going  to want to access to during the fixed term wouldnt have been right for her. 
And her behaviour  following  the advice supports that conclusion.  I appreciate  it did take a 
few years for her to need to access to that money   but again, the fact she required  access  
to it before  the end of the six year term is consistent  with her complaint  that she shouldnt 
have been advised to invest  in a long term investment at all. I appreciate  that Mrs H had 
other cash reserves  but its clear  that, for personal  reasons, what she required with this 
inheritance became clear in the years following this advice. I think  the point is that in the 
particular circumstances  of Mrs Hs case,  this was a foreseeable  consequence of Mrs Hs 
frame of mind at the time,  and ought  to have  been clear to the adviser from the outset. 
Im not aware that the PEB imposed any particular penalties on her for withdrawing the 
money early   but its likely that a four year fixed interest  account  would have. At the very 
least, it wouldve  severely impacted the 4% compound rate weve  currently  recommended  as 
a benchmark.  
So, in the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs case, I agree that Nationwide has used the 
appropriate benchmark when comparing what Mrs Hs return  on the investment would be. 
That said,  what neither  Nationwide nor the adjudicator have considered  when putting things 
right for Mrs H, is the trouble and upset  she has described when withdrawing her money. 
Therefore, although  I agree with the benchmark  Nationwide has used to compare the 
investment return Mrs H wouldve had, I also think it should pay her £250  compensation for 
the trouble and upset its unsuitable  advice caused  her.
Neither Mrs H nor Nationwide agreed  with my provisional decision. 
Nationwide acknowledged  that I had agreed  with its original decision in relation to how to 
calculate compensation. But it didnt  think it was fair that I ask it to pay Mrs H compensation 
for trouble and upset. It said that it wasnt  its fault that Mrs H had to give explanations to the 
bond provider  when withdrawing  her cash,  and while Nationwide was responsible  for the 
sale of the investment, it wasnt responsible  for how it was administered.  
Mrs H said that I hadnt  addressed the complaint about being sold a different fixed  term 
account. She didnt  add any additional points to the method of calculating  compensation 
which I had set out in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional conclusions. 
In relation to Nationwides comments, Im not persuaded  by the reasons it has put forward  
for why it doesnt think it should be responsible for the trouble and upset  Mrs H experienced 
when withdrawing  money  from the PEB. The issue here isnt about  what  the bond provider 
required in terms of explanations. 
Ref: DRN72405494The issue  is that, as Nationwide  has accepted, Mrs H shouldnt  have been advised to put her 
money in an account  that she didnt have access to. And I agree  with that. Nationwide has 
clearly accepted that Mrs H ought  to have kept her money in an instant access account, 
allowing the flexibility of accessing that money  as and when she needed to, without any 
particular obstacles  or penalties.  The unsuitable advice Mrs H received at the time meant 
that she was in an investment which forced  her to do something in order to access her 
money which she wouldnt have  had to do had she been given suitable advice. She has 
been very clear  as to the trouble and upset this caused her. And for these reasons, Im 
satisfied that the unsuitable advice provided  by Nationwide is what  caused this. So Im 
satisfied it should  pay £250 as compensation for that. 
In relation to Mrs Hs comments, I understand the adjudicator  didnt consider there was 
sufficient evidence to show that she had been  advised to invest  in Nationwides 3 year fixed 
interest account. So Ive considered Mrs Hs testimony about that, as well as the evidence  
we have available.  And I have  to say I agree with the adjudicator. 
The evidence Ive seen  indicates that Mrs H didnt receive advice to invest  in that particular 
account. And while I appreciate Mrs Hs recollection that the advisor informed her of the 
existence of Nationwides 3 year fixed interest account, Ive seen  insufficient  evidence to 
persuade me that he recommended it. And given  that Im not satisfied that Nationwide 
advised Mrs H in relation  to that particular account,  Ive not considered  whether or not it was 
suitable for her. It may be reassuring  for Mrs H to know, however, that given the benchmark 
Ive set out below,  its unlikely  the 3 year fixed interest account caused her a financial loss. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
H as close to the position she would  probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
I think Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs H's circumstances  and objectives when  she invested. 
what should  Nationwide do? 
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Nationwide must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Nationwide should also pay interest  as set out below. 
Ref: DRN72405495Pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and upset its unsuitable advice caused her. In 
particular, Mrs H has explained in clear terms that she found it distressing to have to 
ask for permission each  time to withdraw  her money, and I can see she had to do it 
multiple times. I'm persuaded this would've  caused her trouble and upset, and I 
think £250 is fair compensation for that.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional interest
Protected Equity Bond
maturedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of maturity8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Nationwide  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum that Mrs H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value  
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in.
 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Nationwide totals  all those  payments  and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure given Mrs H's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mrs H would have invested  
only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could have  
obtained with little risk to their capital. 
Ref: DRN72405496The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide  Building  Society  must  pay Mrs H 
the compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mrs H has accepted 
my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7240549