K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont refund  her for a photography 
and modelling  package she paid for using  her credit card.
background
Ms C saw an advert on a social media  website in 2017 for a modelling session. She says 
the advert offered free registration.  Ms C sent a photo of her daughter to the company  in
question (who Ill call M). M texted Ms C the same day to say theyd be in touch with 
her shortly.
A representative of M then called Ms C a couple  of days later and asked that she bring 
her daughter  in for a modelling  session.  Ms C says the representative told her that she 
would need to pay a deposit of £100 which she would forfeit  if she failed to attend.
Ms C was sent a brochure which confirmed the time and date of the session  and that it 
would be at a particular  studio (which Ill call O). The brochure  gave some details of the 
types of services Ms C would be offered both at the session and after the session. Ms C 
by this point felt that her daughter had been  chosen for a modelling session with a 
modelling agency.
Ms C and her daughter attended  the session. While Ms C was waiting for her daughter to 
complete this, she started to get concerned about what  was happening. Ms C mentions she 
spoke to another person who was attending  a similar session with O who had paid a 
smaller deposit than she had.
Ms C says that a representative of O then spoke with her and said shed have no trouble 
getting modelling work for her daughter and that shed get her money back  over and over 
again. The representative  then set out a number of things for Ms C to buy, including an e- 
folio of photos, a promotional book, a number of hard copy  photos  and a portfolio disc. 
The total cost of this was £3,000, which meant Ms C was asked to pay £2.900  as shed 
already paid a deposit of £100.
Ms C says she asked Os representative  whether she could just buy some photos and 
was told she couldnt and that she had to buy the whole  package.  Ms C asked for some  
time to think  about this but says she was told to make a decision there and then. Ms C 
also says she was told all the photos  of her daughter from the session would be deleted if 
she didnt buy the package. Ms C paid O £2,900 by credit card although she says she felt 
pressured to do so. Ms C says O gave her the contract to sign and initial  after shed  paid 
them.
Ms C complained to M very shortly afterwards as she felt shed been misled.  M didnt  
uphold the complaint so Ms C contacted Tesco.
Tesco looked into Ms Cs claim under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
However, they turned the claim down as they felt Ms C could  have cancelled  the 
contract prior to leaving Os premises. And Tesco maintained  they were correct  to turn 
the claim down when Ms C then complained  to them.
Ref: DRN71593842Our investigator took a look at what had happened  but didnt uphold  the case. In 
summary, she felt that the brochure  M had sent Ms C made it clear she couldnt  buy 
individual photos of the session and that shed agreed to enter into the contract with O 
after being made  aware of this. So our investigator felt Ms C hadnt  been misled. She also 
felt there hadnt been any breach of contract as the various goods and services  provided 
for under the contract had all been made  available to Ms C. And she noted  that the 
contract stated the order couldnt be cancelled. So she felt O didnt have to give Ms C her 
money back.
Ms C didnt agree and said she hadnt received the goods and services she was offered 
and had agreed to prior to the session. Ms C also reiterated that shed been pressured to 
pay by O.
I sent my provisional decision to Ms C and Tesco on 19 September  2019. My decision said:  
When considering  if Tesco acted fairly  and reasonably in declining  Ms Cs request 
for a refund  I take into account  relevant  law. In this case, Section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  makes Tesco responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Firstly, Im satisfied that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier link was in place for 
Ms C to make a Section 75 claim. Ms C says as part of her complaint that the 
brochure she was sent by M misled her into attending the photoshoot with her 
daughter. So Ms C is saying for this particular part of her complaint that there was 
misleading information within Ms brochure which induced her into both attending the 
session and subsequently paying O the cost of the package. Ms C has also said that 
she was misled by O as well.
Ms C paid O for the goods and services  that were  to be provided under the contract. 
And O is the supplier of these goods and services as Ms C signed a contract with 
them. So, Tesco could be held liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by O. 
Ms C is saying  that M misled her as well as O. Im satisfied Tesco  can still be held 
liable for the representations M made to Ms C.
As Ms C bought goods and services under a sales contract, the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here. The CRA applies where there  is an agreement 
between a trader and a consumer for the trader to supply goods. And the definition 
of trader  given within the CRA is a person acting for purposes relating to that 
persons trade, business, craft or profession, whether acting  personally  or through 
another person acting in the traders name  or on the traders behalf.
Im satisfied M was acting  on behalf  of O by advertising and producing brochures for 
prospective consumers  to attend  photoshoots and sign contracts for goods and 
services with O. It follows  therefore  that any representation made  by M to Ms C was 
done so on behalf of O, and so means  that Tesco can be held equally liable for any 
misrepresentation made by M to Ms C in this case.
Ref: DRN71593843I note also that the contract paperwork was signed by Ms C and that her daughter 
was a minor  at the time. It was Ms C who was contacted and invited with her 
daughter to discuss what services they would offer. Its also clear that O and Ms C 
discussed what was being proposed under the contract, its cost and that Ms C paid 
that cost. This makes  sense of course bearing  in mind that Ms Cs daughter was a 
minor. So all in all Im satisfied that Ms C was the party contracting  with O. And the 
credit card payment was made  to the same company that was shown on the 
contract paperwork.
Turning to the case itself,  Ms C feels pretty strongly that Ms promotional  
literature misled her. Ive had a look at this. Ms application form which  
accompanied their advert is titled register free now. And Ms brochure 
mentioned that images start at £50 and they decrease the more you purchase. 
Ms C took this to mean that her daughter would sign up with what she believed  
to be a modelling agency for free and that shed be able to buy photos of the 
modelling shoot  with the amounts of these decreasing if she bought more.
I think its quite plausible that Ms C felt this was the case. However, Im also mindful 
that she found out this wasnt  actually true once she spoke with Os representative 
and found out that what  was being offered under the contract  was rather  different 
and that this came at a particular cost.  Ms C then agreed to pay for what was 
provided under the contract.
I note though that Ms C mentions she was reassured by Os representative  telling 
her she would very quickly make back the money  she was about to pay. I think it 
more likely than not this happened. I find Ms Cs account of this to compelling, 
plausible and persuasive. The amount of the package wasnt cheap; it came  to 
£3,000. So I can see why Ms C may have felt reassured if shed been told shed be 
able to repay this in good time from the work  her daughter would get, despite clear  
reservations about the cost. And I think this representation played a significant  part 
in inducing Ms C to enter into the contract.
Ms C also mentions that she was led to believe she would be signing her 
daughter up to a modelling agency rather than just attending a photo shoot. I am 
inclined to believe this. I think  that goes a long way to explaining why Ms C 
agreed to pay such a large amount of money,  and why she thought this might  be 
reasonable to pay despite the cost.
I note Tesco  mentions that the contract  with O states that we are a support service  
and not an agency and as such will not market the aspiring model  and cannot  
guarantee the aspiring model  work.
Ms C contends that she signed the contract after she paid for the package and she 
was pressured  to pay before she signed it. Again, I find her testimony describing 
what happened to be consistent and credible. I think it likely that Ms C was put 
under some pressure to make a decision to pay and that what  she thought had been 
offered, and the representations made by O about recouping the cost,  went  a long 
way in her deciding to go ahead.
Ref: DRN71593844I also believe on balance that Ms C signed  the contract after paying. This is 
significant as above Ms Cs signature there were ticked boxes which said I 
understand that once  I leave the premises, I cannot  cancel or reduce  the order,  
and I understand that I have read and am bound by the terms and conditions of 
the agreement.  If, as Ms C says, she signed the contract after paying, there casts 
significant doubt as to what Ms C understood the written contract to say, which in 
this case includes comments about  O not being  an agency. I also note that the 
boxes were pre-ticked  rather than ticked by Ms C. Again, this casts doubt in my 
mind that Ms C fully understood what the contract entailed.
On balance, I think Ms C was misled by O as to the nature of the goods and 
services that were to be provided  by O. And I dont think that Ms C wouldve entered  
into the contract had the true position  been  made  clear to her.
So this leaves me to determine what would be an appropriate remedy for Ms C. In 
cases such as this, we would usually put a consumer  back  into the position  they 
wouldve been in had they been  aware  of the true nature of the arrangement.  In this 
case, Im satisfied Ms C wouldnt  have  entered into any form of contract  with O and 
not paid any money  including  the deposit  she paid.  I currently  therefore intend to 
instruct Tesco to rework Ms Cs credit card as if the payment to O had never been 
made.
I am unsure  whether Ms C is in possession of any of the items listed  under the 
contract. She says she hasnt accessed the photo disc or the online service  such as 
the e-folio. I shall leave  it up to Tesco to decide whether they want  to arrange  
collection of the photo disc.
my provisional decision
I uphold Ms Cs complaint  and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
 rework  Ms Cs credit card as if the payment of £3,000 to the supplier had 
never been made   where this recalculation results  in a credit balance,  the 
bank should  pay her interest  on that amount at a rate of 8% simple  per year,  
from the date that credit  balance arose  to the date of settlement;
 arrange for collection  of the photo disc (optional).
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision. Ms C replied  saying she had 
nothing further  to add on my findings other than to say that she felt O and M might be the 
same legal entity but using different trading  names.  Ms C asked me to bear in mind that 
Tesco may have  levied interest on her credit card balance at a higher rate than the 8% 
figure Id mentioned. 
Tesco replied saying  that they didnt  think they could add anything that would change what  
Id said in my provisional decision. They did mention  though  that they couldnt find the 
specific advert on the social media  website Id referred to. And they mentioned that they 
were usually hesitant to consider such adverts as there was no way of knowing or verifying 
where the page or advert  came from and what it stated at the time. 
Ref: DRN71593845my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Tescos  comments about the advert I mentioned in my provisional  decision. 
However, I dont believe  that makes  any difference to the outcome of this case.  I said in my 
provisional decision that I felt that O had misled Ms C as to the nature of the goods and 
services that were to be provided by them and that Ms C wouldnt have entered into the 
contract with O had the true position  been made clear to her. So the initial advert  that 
prompted Ms C to make contact with M, and which led to her entering  into the contract with 
O, has no relevance to whether or not O misled her. 
Ive not been provided with any further evidence that would lead me to change my 
provisional findings. Although Ms C says she feels M and O might be the same legal entity, 
this doesnt make a difference on my findings  on whether O misled her or not. And, for the 
same reasons given  in my provisional  decision, which Ive referred to above, I find that O 
misled Ms C. 
I also see no reason to depart from my proposed direction to Tesco  on how Ms C should  be 
compensated for what happened. I would though just clarify for Ms C that I will be directing 
Tesco to rework her credit card as if the payment of £3,000 she made  had never been 
made. So this would include any interest that Tesco may have levied on this payment at the 
cards contractual  rate which means  Ms C wont be financially  penalised. The 8% interest 
figure I mentioned  would only be appropriate if a credit balance arises after Tescos 
recalculation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
rework Ms Cs credit card as if the payment  of £3,000 to the supplier had never  been  
made  where  this recalculation results  in a credit balance,  the bank should pay her 
interest on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year,  from the date that credit 
balance arose  to the date of settlement;
arrange for collection of the photo disc (optional)
If Tesco  considers its legally required to deduct  tax from any interest award it should 
provide Ms C with a certificate of tax deduction so she can reclaim this from HM Revenue 
and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7159384