K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Mr B says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B says that when  he was applying for his credit card that at no point was it made clear to 
him that PPI was optional. But I think Barclays made  it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember  this 
as it was almost 20 years  ago.
I say this because  Barclays  has provided  a copy of Mr Bs credit  card application, on this, I 
can see that PPI is presented as an optional product and has been  selected with a tick. Mr B 
has then gone  on to sign the application,  agreeing to the information  on it. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what hes said about having  good 
sick pay from his employer which wouldve meant he didnt  need  the PPI. But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of Mr Bs existing cover  and for longer than hed have received full 
pay for. So this point doesnt change  my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN71715742The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7171574