K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a fixed  sum loan agreement was mis-sold to him by Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC and that the loan was unaffordable for him.
background 
Mr S has a Barclays  fixed sum loan agreement. Hes complained  about the banks decision 
to lend to him, saying  it has led to him getting  deeper into debt and incurring overdraft fees. 
He said he wasnt in paid employment, had no income of his own and that his wife was the 
main wage earner.  Mr S suggested  that the loan should be made to his wife. He felt the loan 
wasnt affordable and that it shouldnt have been  made to him. Mr S also expressed concern 
that he was receiving further loan invitations  from Barclays. He wasnt satisfied with the 
banks response  so complained to us.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Barclays to lend based  on the overall 
household income, noting  that some  of the loan money was used to repay  existing debts 
owed by Mrs S. He took the view that the loan was affordable  and didnt think  that the 
overdraft usage  was a direct  result of Mr S struggling to maintain the loan repayments. He 
said that if Mr S didnt wish to receive marketing material  from Barclays  he should ask it to 
stop sending it to him.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be reviewed.  He says,  in summary, that:
his wife wasnt added to the loan even though it was her salary that made up the 
finances in the joint account and the Lending  Code  Section  4 deals with affordability 
and joint applications;
Barclays didnt take into consideration his financial situation or make proper 
affordability checks;
Barclays was made  aware  of the financial difficulties that hes been experiencing 
since December 2017; and
he wasnt afforded the opportunity  to take up a 14-day cooling off period.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Barclays on 10 January 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
At the time of taking  out the loan, in 2016, Mr S held a Barclays  joint account  with 
his wife. Mr S says he suggested that his wife should be a party  to the loan but was 
told that that wasnt necessary. The bank says it considered the overall  household  
income for Mr Ss loan application  as the income was available  to both parties due to 
the nature  of the account. Barclays  has referred to a previous case in which  we 
concluded that it was reasonable for it to take into account the borrowers  access to 
the overall income in the joint account.
When deciding whats fair and reasonable, I have to take into account various 
factors, including relevant regulations and codes of practice.  One of the relevant 
codes here is the Lending  Code, as referenced by Mr S, which  in 2016 said:
Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to 
repay a personal  loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another  
Ref: DRN71573832person is taken into account,  normally  the loan should be provided on a joint 
and several basis. However there may be circumstances when it is 
appropriate to provide  a loan on a sole basis.
Barclays evidence is that income was one of the factors taken into account when 
assessing Mr Ss loan application. The Lending Code guidance suggests to me that 
while there are circumstances in which a loan might be made to a sole applicant  
based on household income,  that wouldnt normally be appropriate. I havent  seen  
anything that might suggest  there  were circumstances at play in this case that made  
it appropriate for the loan to be made to Mr S rather than jointly  to Mr S and his wife.
Barclays budgeting  tool shows  that Mr S had a monthly income of £990  and no 
expenses. But he says that he had no income  and that his wifes  income   and their 
benefits  were paid into the joint account. In February 2016, the month before the 
loan application  was made,  the payments into the joint account  were income of 
£1,556.82, a tax credit  of £799.39  and child benefit of £192.40. And at least  once in 
each month  between January 2015  and March 2016 the account was overdrawn.  
Barclays says that the loan  for £17,000   was taken for debt consolidation and that 
monthly payments  for Mr and Mrs Ss debts  added up to £366.58. The monthly  loan 
repayment was £333.39  in other  words,  £33.19  less each month. But that saving 
alone doesnt show that the loan was affordable for Mr S. The joint account  was 
overdrawn by more  than £33.19 most months. And Ive seen no evidence to show 
that Barclays conducted a proper assessment of Mr S and his wifes income and 
expenditure to determine whether the loan was affordable for them. If it had done so, 
I consider that it shouldve  concluded that a loan of £17,000 wasnt affordable  for 
Mr S. I note the joint account became  overdrawn  again within  a couple  of months of 
taking out the loan.
Barclays accepts that Mr S approached it for a loan of £15,000 but that the 
application was processed for £17,000.  It hasnt  been able to provide a proper 
explanation as to why the loan was for £2,000 more than Mr S had asked for. Nor 
have I seen anything  that suggests Mr and Mrs S were looking to consolidate debts 
of more than around £12,000  the total payments made from the account 
immediately after the loan was credited were approximately  this sum. The net result 
was that the loan increased Mr Ss overall  indebtedness at a time where  he was 
looking to consolidate  debt to help with his difficulties. In the circumstances, Im 
minded to say that this was an irresponsible  action on Barclays part.
The loan agreement  did include a 14-day cooling off period during which Mr S could 
withdraw from the loan.  But when the loan was paid into the joint account  three  
payments totalling  £9,138.92 were made that day and 2 payments totalling £2,757.83  
were made the following  day. These  appear  to have  been made to pay off debt owed 
by Mr and/or  Mrs S. So even if Mr S had been able to exercise the cooling-off term, 
he wouldnt  have been in a position  to repay  the bulk of the money, as it had already 
been used. With this in mind,  I dont propose  to make any direction in relation to 
Mr Ss concerns about the cooling-off period.
putting things  right
Im minded  to find that Barclays did not undertake a proper or effective assessment 
of the loan request. I recognise  that if it had done so, even if it had decided  not to 
Ref: DRN71573833lend to Mr S, he and his wife would still have owed the £12,000  that was 
consolidated into the new loan. As I understand it, that borrowing was interest-
bearing, and at a higher rate than the Barclays loan. I therefore  dont think  it would be 
right to say Mr S has been disadvantaged  by that aspect of the borrowing, though I 
appreciate strictly speaking he is now liable to repay  money that was previously 
owed by Mrs S. Given what Mr S originally said, though, I believe that is a matter 
best dealt with between him and Mrs S, rather than through Barclays.
Where I do think  Barclays needs to take action is in relation to the new  money it lent 
to Mr S  some £5,000. I dont doubt  that Mr S (and his wife) have had the use of that 
money. But I must also take account of the duties and principles in both the Lending  
Code and the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  
with regard to creditworthiness and the borrowers  ability to sustain repayments.
Based on the information available in Mr Ss case, I think its fair to say that Barclays  
should not have lent him quite as much  money as it did. Equally, Mr S, knowing his 
reasons for seeking the loan, should  not have borrowed that much.  In that context, 
Ive thought about what represents a fair and reasonable  basis  for settlement, taking 
into account the arguably greater duty that Barclays has to act responsibly and in its 
customers best interests. 
Having considered matters carefully,  Im currently minded to conclude  that it would 
be fair and reasonable in these circumstances  for Barclays  to reduce Mr Ss loan 
balance by £2,000 (representing the additional  money it lent over and above the 
amount Mr S asked  for). I also consider  that the bank should waive  all interest  on the 
loan capital above the £12,000 identified as being  used  for debt consolidation 
purposes, backdated to the inception  of the loan.  And if Barclays has applied  any 
charges for late or non-payment  of the loan,  it should refund these.
Going forward, it would  be prudent for both parties to try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement  for the remaining loan balance. Given  the way the 
household finances appear  to operate, this arrangement  is likely  to need to involve  
Mrs S, to enable an accurate picture of their total income and expenditure. Although  I 
dont propose to make a direction in this respect,  it seems to me that this would be 
consistent with the banks  obligations to deal fairly with customers  in financial 
difficulty.
On a final point,  Mr S has said that he doesnt  want to receive further marketing 
information from Barclays about loans. Barclays should take note of this and amend 
Mr Ss mailing preferences so that he doesnt receive such information.
Mr S said that Barclays had sold his debt to a third party so hes unable to access  his loan 
information and is unsure  how it would  be able to implement my provisional findings.  
Barclays responded to my provisional decision in detail and I issued a second  provisional 
decision on this complaint to Mr S and to Barclays on 31 March 2020.  In my second 
provisional decision I said as follows: 
Barclays has provided information  to explain  why a loan of £17,000 was made to 
Mr S  rather  than the £15,000 that he had initially  requested. The lower interest rate 
that was available to him if he borrowed £17,000  meant that he would have to pay 
£1,292.60 less in interest  than he would have paid if hed borrowed £15,000.  For that 
reason I no longer consider that it would be fair or reasonable  for me to require 
Ref: DRN71573834Barclays to reduce Mr Ss loan balance by £2,000 as I suggested in my provisional  
decision.
But Im still not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show  that Barclays 
properly assessed  the affordability of the loan for Mr S or that the loan was affordable 
for him. Nor am I persuaded  that there were circumstances  at play in this case that 
made it appropriate for the loan to be made  to Mr S rather than jointly to Mr S and his 
wife (as the guidance said would normally be appropriate).
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  in these  circumstances for Barclays to 
waive all interest on the loan capital above  the £12,000 identified  as being used for 
debt consolidation  purposes,  backdated to the inception  of the loan, and that it 
should refund to Mr S any charges for late or non-payment of the loan that it has 
applied. 
Mr S says that Barclays has sold his debt to a third party.  If necessary to give effect 
to this decision, I would expect Barclays to arrange for the debt to be transferred 
back to it from the third party.
So subject to any further representations by Mr S or Barclays, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint and that I intended to order Barclays  to waive  all 
interest on the loan capital above the £12,000  identified as being  used  for debt consolidation  
purposes, backdated to the inception  of the loan,  and to refund any charges for late or non-
payment of the loan that it has applied.
Neither Mr S nor Barclays has accepted that provisional decision.  Mr S has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
he agrees that the loan agreement included a fourteen-day cooling off period but he 
wasnt able to use it as the person who sold him the loan used the funds to pay off 
some existing  debt whilst he was still in the branch   so he didnt  have the 
opportunity to discuss with his wife whether the loan was appropriate  and the 
fourteen-day cooling off period  was effectively taken  away  from him when he was still 
in the branch;
he didnt approach Barclays for a loan but was offered a loan of up to £21,000  during  
an account review;
he says that he didnt tell Barclays that his income was £990 each month but told it 
that he wasnt employed and didnt have  an income  so he thinks  that it was totally  
irresponsible for it to have lent to him and that it hasnt acted appropriately; and
Barclays sold him the £17,000 loan to make money and that it will make  more money 
from this loan than from a loan of £15,000  - and it continued to offer to increase the 
loan to £21,000. 
Barclays has also responded in detail and says, in summary, that:
Mr S told it that he earned £990 each month and that his wife was the main wage 
earner, which it validated from his joint account with his wife;
it only used the validated sole income that he declared when assessing his 
affordability for this loan and it didnt consider his wifes income; 
Ref: DRN71573835Mr S said that he had no monthly  expenditure but it calculated  his contribution to be 
£540 which left him with monthly  disposable income of about  £450;
the monthly loan repayment was £333.90 so theres no doubt  that the loan was 
affordable to Mr S as a sole applicant - and loan repayments were  maintained  for a 
considerable period of time by him;  
it was only when  the household income  reduced  that Mr S started to struggle with the 
loan repayments   which is purely down  to a change in circumstances, not a result  of 
an irresponsible lending decision;
the provisions in the Lending Code about  using joint income to assess a loan 
application arent applicable in this case because it hasnt used the joint income to 
assess the affordability of Mr Ss loan; and 
it strongly believes that Mr Ss compliant has been the result of a change in 
circumstances and that, if it hadnt happened, Mr S would have continued to repay 
his loan as he had done for some time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my second  provisional decision.  
I have looked  again at the bank statements for Mr Ss joint account with his wife that 
Barclays has provided. It says that the joint account is the only bank account that Mr S has 
with it. The statements for the period from January to March  2016 (when the loan was made) 
show that there were  three main payments into the account each month:  Mr Ss wife salary, 
tax credits (which are clearly identified as being paid to Mr Ss wife) and child benefit.  The 
statements also show that at the beginning of each of those months the account was 
overdrawn.
Mr S has consistently said that he didnt  tell Barclays that his income was £990  and I 
consider that it ought reasonably to have been clear to Barclays  that the tax credit  was paid 
to his wife. I dont consider that it was reasonable in these circumstances for Barclays to 
conclude that Mr Ss income  was £990.  
I consider that the affordability assessment conducted by Barclays included  some of the 
household income and the Lending  Code  says that a loan should normally be provided on a 
joint and several  basis  in such circumstances. That didnt happen here and Im still not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Barclays properly assessed the 
affordability of the loan for Mr S or that the loan was affordable for him. Nor am I persuaded 
that there  were circumstances  at play in this case that made  it appropriate for the loan to be 
made to Mr S rather  than jointly to Mr S and his wife (as the guidance  said would normally  
be appropriate).
The loan agreement  said:  Please  sign this agreement  only if you want  to be legally bound 
by its terms and to confirm that you accept the loan. It did include a cooling-off  period but, 
as set out in my first provisional  decision, payments were made from the loan account. Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that those payments werent authorised  
by Mr S and I consider  it to be more likely than not that he (and his wife)  have benefitted  
from those payments. I dont consider that theres  enough evidence  to show that Barclays 
acted incorrectly in connection with the cooling-off period.
Ref: DRN71573836For these reasons, I find that the outcome proposed in my second provisional decision 
remains fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  But other than the actions  set out in this 
decision, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclays to take any 
other action  in response to Mr Ss complaint and Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to refund to Mr S the interest on the £12,000 of loan capital 
that was used for debt consolidation purposes or to write-off all or any part of the loan. If 
necessary to give effect to this decision,  I would expect Barclays  to arrange  for the debt to 
be transferred back to it from any third party to which its been sold. 
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order  Barclays  Bank  UK PLC to:
1.Waive all interest on the loan capital above  the £12,000 identified as being used for 
debt consolidation  purposes,  backdated to the inception  of the loan.
2.Refund any charges  for late or non-payment  of the loan that it has applied.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7157383