K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Ms W says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Ms W opened a store  card account  in a shop in 2002. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Ms Ws store  card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of accident  or sickness,  or if she lost her 
job. The policy  also included life cover  and purchase  and price  protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Ws application  for the store card. It includes a section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). It instructs  the applicant only to sign if they require  the 
cover. Ms W has signed specifically  to indicate  that she wished  to take the cover. I think 
that it would  have been clear  to Ms W from the way the form was set out that the PPI 
was optional. And given that she signed specifically to take the cover,  I think  she decided  
to take it, knowing  that she had a choice.
FICL didnt advise  Ms W to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave  Ms W enough  information  to enable her to 
decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed have had of 
making her monthly repayments if she was unable  to work.
I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it should have been. But I think she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now.
Ref: DRN73425552After the adjudicator sent out her view of the complaint, Ms Ws representatives told us 
that shed  told them that she was, in fact, not working  at the time of sale.  Ms W had 
previously told us that she was working part-time as an agency  worker when she opened 
the account. We asked Ms Ws representatives to provide more detail about her 
employment circumstances  at the time of sale, and what  had prompted her to remember  
that she wasnt working.  But although weve asked for this information more than once, it 
hasnt been provided.  And without the details weve asked for, Im not satisfied that I can 
fairly conclude that Ms Ws employment situation  made  the policy  unsuitable for her.
Ms Ws told us she wouldnt have been entitled  to any sick pay or redundancy pay. If 
shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her store  card. And it would 
potentially have done this each month until her credit agreement ended  or the 
outstanding balance  at the time of her claim had been repaid.
Ive borne in mind  that Ms W has also told us that she could have relied on her husband 
to help her make  her store card repayments  if necessary.  But circumstances can 
change, and I cant be sure Ms Ws husband would have been in a position to help if the 
need had arisen. Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI policy could have  been  
useful for Ms W.
Based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, and in the absence  of 
the further information we asked for about  Ms Ws employment circumstances, I cant 
conclude that Ms W was affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover.  And 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that it was unaffordable for her. So taking everything into 
account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI would have put Ms W 
off taking it out. This means I dont  think shes  lost out as a result of anything  that FICL  
may have done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7342555