K820x#14complaint
Red Star Financial Management Ltd (Red  Star)  made a successful PPI claim for Mrs T. 
Shes complained that Red Stars fees werent  made clear to her and are excessive.
background
Mrs T instructed Red Star to act for her in a mis-sold PPI claim on 18 May 2018. The claim 
was successful and, on 17 July, Red Star invoiced Mrs T for their fees. Mrs T has 
complained that the fees charged by Red Star were  unclear and she didnt understand how 
they were calculated.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
Our investigator found Red Star had provided  a reasonable service and their fees had been 
clearly explained  in the paperwork  Mrs T signed and agreed to. He didnt feel that the PPI 
fee cap applied,  because Red Star had told Mrs T about this and shed instructed them to 
act anyway. Because of this he didnt think Red Star needed to do anything.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigator.  She says theres no evidence she was told of the 
upcoming fee cap, and she didnt sign the fee cap notification to say shed received this. She 
also says that Red Star initially offered her £200  to resolve her complaint before it was sent 
to the Legal Ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen the Letter of Authority Mrs T signed  on 18 May 2018. In signing this, Mrs T signed  
to say she had read and agreed to Red Stars  Terms of Engagement.  These  confirmed that 
Red Star would charge  a fee of 42% (35% plus VAT) on any successful claim. The Terms of 
Engagement also contained three examples of how the fee would be calculated. Because of 
this I agree that Red Stars fees were  clearly explained.
Ive seen that Mrs T was awarded total compensation of £9,827.15 and that Red Stars  fees 
were £3,439.50. The fees are 42% of the total amount awarded to Mrs T and are in line with 
the fees she agreed to. 
Red Star charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, Red Stars fee may be more  or less than the 
value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of 
agreement. Just because Red Stars fee is higher than the value of the work they have done 
for Mrs T doesnt  make  their fee unjustified.
Ref: DRN75930292The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 required the Claims Management Regulator 
(CMR) to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims.  The fee cap came  into force on 10 July 2018. 
From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a success  fee of 
more than 20% plus VAT. But, on 11 May 2018,  the CMR issued guidance to all claims 
management companies. This said from the date of this guidance you should inform  all new 
or potential  clients of the upcoming change to the fees you can charge. 
Red Star have sent in a copy of an insert they say was sent out with all of their claims packs 
after 11 May 2018. This insert says what customers need to do to be able to start a claim, 
and also says please  be aware that the [CMR] is imposing a fee cap in Payment Protection 
Insurance reclaims meaning that as of 10th July our fees will be capped at 20%+VAT of the 
total amount of compensation awarded  (24% in total). Please note any customer who signs  
before this date will be charged at our current fee rate that can be found in section 4 of our 
Terms of Engagement.
Mrs T has said that she never signed  this insert to say shed received this, but there was no 
requirement for her to do this. Shes also said theres no evidence it was sent to her, but 
theres no evidence  it wasnt sent to her. Because  of this, my decision is based on what was 
most likely to have happened.
Its not disputed  that Red Star sent Mrs T a claim  pack, as this contained  the documents she 
needed to be able to make  a claim.  She would also need to know  what Red Star needed her 
to do so a claim could be made, and this is detailed in the What  Next?  insert  in the claim 
pack  the same insert that says about  the fee cap. The fee cap details are in smaller print at 
the bottom  of the page, but I dont think this is a problem   the print was not so small it 
couldnt be easily read, nor was it hidden so it could be easily  missed.
Because of this, I think its more likely than not that Red Star provided  Mrs T with the 
information about the upcoming fee cap. By instructing Red Star to act for her in May 2018, 
Mrs T also agreed for them to charge their fees before  the fee cap came  into place. For this 
reason I dont think the fees should be reduced to 24% (20% plus VAT).
Mrs T has also said that Red Star offered her £200 to resolve  her complaint before she took 
this to the Legal Ombudsman. Under  the rules of the Legal Ombudsman, Red Star were  
entitled to make any offer to resolve a complaint, and to withdraw this offer if it wasnt 
accepted. Because of this I cant say theyve done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ts complaint about Red Star Financial 
Management Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7593029