K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way BISL Limited,  acting as insurance intermediary, arranged a 
motor insurance policy  for him.
background
In December 2016 Mr B went online to arrange  motor insurance for a car his wife was to 
drive. The details he input  on the comparison website said his wife owned the car and she 
was the registered keeper of it. He selected  a policy arranged by BISL, based on the 
information he had provided, with an insurer Ill call U. 
BISL sent out insurance documentation which repeated the information Mr B had provided. It 
also warned that failure to disclose correct  information might result, amongst other things,  in 
the policy being made null and void and treated as if it never existed. Neither Mr B nor his 
wife contacted BISL to correct any of the information  supplied.
The policy renewed  automatically in December 2017. Similar insurance documentation  was 
again sent out by BISL. Again neither Mr B nor his wife contacted BISL to correct the 
information.
The car was reported stolen in April 2018, and a claim  was made  under the policy. When U 
investigated the claim, it found that the car was owned by a leasing company, not by Mrs B, 
and she wasnt shown  as the registered keeper  of it at DVLA.
U said it didnt offer insurance for leased  vehicles under this type of policy,  and if it had 
known the true facts it wouldnt have insured the car. So it instructed BISL to void the policy, 
that is treat it as of no effect from the outset, and refund the premiums paid.
Mr B complained to BISL. He said the mistake had been accidental  he had no reason not 
to disclose the true facts. He also thought he had told BISL at some  point since the policy  
was set up that the car was leased.
BISL didnt accept his complaint. It said it had checked with the comparison site, and Mr B 
didnt disclose that the car was leased when the quote was issued. And BISL had nothing on 
its system to say Mr B had ever told it the car was leased.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said the quote 
data from the online  comparison  site showed  Mr B input Mrs B as the registered keeper and 
legal owner of the car. Mr B said this was a genuine error; the online application was 
completed in a rush, and as such he didnt  answer  the question  accurately.
While she sympathised with Mr B, the investigator said BISL  had to act on the information it 
had, which  was incorrect. BISL had no evidence that Mr B had notified  it of this error. She 
thought the questions Mr B was asked were  clear and specific.  He also received policy  
documentation showing  Mrs B as the registered  keeper. She thought he should  have noticed 
this and told BISL it was incorrect.
The investigator thought BISL had done  nothing  wrong in setting up the policy  and acting as 
it did. It wasnt responsible for Us decision to void the policy  Mr B would have to bring a 
separate complaint against U if he wished  to question this. 
Ref: DRN71604282Mr B asked for his complaint to be reviewed.  He said he had rushed making  the application, 
and the meaning  of the questions wasnt made clear to him. He was adamant  that he had 
mentioned to BISL at some stage that the car was leased, but couldnt  prove  this. He 
wouldnt lie about this as he would want the car that his wife and children were  driving  round 
in to be validly insured.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the position Mr B finds  himself  in. However I cant  say BISL has done  
anything wrong  in the way it arranged the policy and acted as it did. I think  the questions     
Mr B was asked on the comparison  website were  sufficiently clear.
The resulting  information was sent to Mr B on two separate occasions, with warnings about 
the possible consequences of supplying incorrect information. Although  he says he told BISL 
at some stage the car was leased, there  is nothing  on BISLs  records  to confirm  this, and he 
cant provide any other evidence to support this. 
So all in all I cant say BISL did anything wrong  in the way it set up the policy, and later acted 
on Us instructions to void it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against BISL Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7160428