K821x#15complaint
Mr A, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP was irresponsible  in its lending to him.
background
Mr A applied for six loans  with Uncle Buck  between  July 2013 and February  2014.  He says 
that he was caught in a cycle of debt whereby  he needed to increase the amount he 
borrowed in order to cover the cost of previous borrowing and his living expenses. He says 
he was using other lenders and had multiple loans outstanding at the same  time. He says 
the situation caused him stress and family issues.
Mr A says that Uncle Buck should  have realised from his pattern of borrowing that he 
needed some help. He says he had recently been part of an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA) and had Uncle Buck noticed  this he thinks  it wouldn't have  lent to him.
Mr A says that insufficient checks were undertaken before the loans were provided to ensure 
they were affordable.
Uncle Buck  says that it has a robust  process  for confirming  affordability at the point of 
application. It says it carried  out income and expenditure assessments and credit checks 
and that these checks were proportionate  for Mr A's loans.  It says it wasn't required to look 
at his bank statements.  Uncle  Buck  says that its checks  use real time data including  
information on defaults and significant changes to accounts and that it carries out 
affordability checks and checks of short term lending data.
Uncle Buck  says that its checks  showed the loans were affordable and it says that the loans 
were all repaid on time (aside from loan four which was rolled over and repaid four days  
later).
Our adjudicator thought that the checks carried out before the first loan was provided were 
sufficient. She thought  further checks should  have been carried out before the following 
loans. Had further  checks taken place, our adjudicator  thought that Uncle  Buck would have 
found the second loan to have been  affordable.  However she thought had sufficient checks  
taken place before loans  three to six were  provided  it was unlikely Uncle  Buck would've 
agreed to offer Mr A these  loans.
Uncle Buck  said that Mr A's third loan was for the same amount as his first two loans and so 
based on the information provided for the first two loans, the third loan would have been 
affordable. It said the loan was repaid in full.
Before the fourth loan,  Uncle  Buck  said there was a gap of 74 days  and that although Mr A 
rolled over this loan he then settled it four days later.
Uncle Buck  offered to refund the interest and charges on loans five and six along with 
interest and to remove any adverse information  regarding these loans from Mr A's credit file.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN75690292there wasnt enough evidence to say that loans one to three shouldnt have bene 
provided;
the gap between the third and fourth loan was less than three months and given Mr As 
pattern of borrowing, Uncle Buck should have  been concerned at this time that he was 
becoming dependent on short  term loans;
had further  checks  been carried out Uncle Buck  would  have realised  loan four wasnt  
sustainably affordable;
Uncle Buck agreed to refund  the interest and charges on the fifth and sixth loans which  I 
found reasonable.
No new information  was provided in response  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr A, Uncle Buck had to make  sure each time that he could afford 
to repay  the loans.  Affordability checks should  be proportionate. What  is proportionate 
depends on things  like - but not limited to - the size of the loan, the repayments, what  Uncle  
Buck knew  about  Mr A, and the things he told it about his circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I didnt think that there was enough evidence to say 
that loans one to three shouldnt have been provided. However I thought that had further 
checks been carried out loan four would have been  seen to be unsustainable.
As no further  information was provided  following my provisional decision,  my decision  
remains that I uphold  this complaint in regard to loans  four to six.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  four to six. Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr A paid on loans four to six (inclusive);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7569029