K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
Miss W bought the policy in 1995.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss W has said that she cant remember  how the PPI was sold to her. FICL has said that 
the policy was sold during  a phone call. Given the time thats passed since  the sale,  its not 
surprising that Miss W may not recall clearly  how the policy  was sold.  Ive considered  that 
this PPI policy was sold during  a telephone  call. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint  because:
Although a call recording or call notes arent available Ive noted that Miss W hasnt 
complained that she was told she had to take PPI or that she didnt know  shed taken 
it. Miss W has complained that the PPI wasnt explained to her, what it was or what it 
would cover her for.
I think its more likely than not that FICL made  Miss W aware  that PPI was optional 
and she chose to take it out.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Miss W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her, particularly as the PPI policy could 
have paid out for longer than Miss Ws sick pay would  have  lasted and Miss W has 
Ref: DRN72995512told us that she had no other means for making her credit card repayments apart 
from her sick pay.
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Miss Ws comments, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7299551