K820x#14complaint
Ms Q complains that proper checks carried out by CashEuroNet UK LLC,  trading as 
QuickQuid, when she applied to it for loans would have resulted in a different lending 
decision. Ms Q says she was not earning  enough to cover her costs and her loan 
repayments. 
background
Ms Q took two payday loans from QuickQuid and one continuous line of credit  which  it calls 
a FlexCredit account.  Here is a short summary:
LoanDate  
approvedamountRepayment 
due 
(rounded)Repayment 
due dateActual  
repayment 
date
1 payday31 January  
2013£100 £12215 February 
2013as agreed
2 payday 6 April 2013 £200 £259 30 April 2013 30 July 2013
3 Flex 30 July 2013 £600 limitvarying with
highest  £202First due 30 
August  2013
Last due 30 
May 201427 November 
2013
QuickQuid wrote to Ms Q to say that it did not uphold her complaint. Ms Q brought her 
complaint here and is represented by a third party. 
QuickQuid sent us submissions to defend  the complaint and I summarise its points here:
it had recorded  Ms Qs income  as £1,200 net a month  using information  from Ms Q; 
it says that it asked Ms Q for her expenditure  in relation to rent and utilities  but has 
not retained those  figures;
the FlexCredit account had a limit of £600 with a reasonable period of time to repay 
(ten months) by varying instalment amounts,  the first being about £202  and 
decreasing after that. 
it carried out credit bureau searches against Ms Qs name and has said that they did 
not show markers that would cause alarm, such as discharges, CCJs, credit  
searches, or disputes.  It has sent us a summary  of one of these reports. 
it accepts it did not take into consideration that Ms Q may have had other loans  with 
other parties. It says that Ms Q showed consistent repayments and proportionate 
income. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and her opinion was that the complaint should not 
be upheld in relation to each loan.
Ms Qs representative said it did not agree because Ms Q had so many other loans 
(specifically short term loans) around the time these loans were being  applied for, that they 
could not have been affordable. It said that the checks done were not reasonable. 
Our adjudicator sent her second view which did not change from her first. 
Ref: DRN72948182Ms Qs representative sent to us Ms Qs personal credit file (partial copy)  and said that she 
was dependant on payday  loans and could not afford any of the loans she had. It suggested  
that no credit  checks were carried out by QuickQuid. 
Our adjudicators third view outlined  the reasons for her not changing her opinion. And as 
Ms Qs representative had asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman it has 
been passed to me.
QuickQuid has resent  to me the summary  of the credit reports  at my request and re-iterated 
that the reports it had did not reveal any red flags. And QuickQuid explained that the lower 
the number of searches revealed  on a report then that can be an indicator that it was less 
likely the individual  was in a financial bind. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Equally, it was not expected that lenders carry out extensive and exhaustive research into 
each applicants financial history for each loan.  I need to be satisfied that any checks  done  
were proportionate and early  on in the lending relationship  often it is considered to be 
proportionate for the lender to rely on what it has been  told by the applicant.  
In Ms Qs case  I have seen from her personal credit file and the bank statements that she 
did borrow from several lenders in 2013.  I sympathise with the fact that Ms Q found herself  
in that position. But I need to consider each of her applications to QuickQuid within the 
context of the lending relationship between Ms Q and QuickQuid at the application date.
Loans 1 and 2
QuickQuids records I have been  sent show me that Loan 1 was the first time Ms Q had 
applied to it. That first loan was for £100 with a repayment sum of £129  due 
15 February 2013. Ms Q had told QuickQuid she earned £1,200. And I would not have 
expected QuickQuid to do more. 
QuickQuid says it did carry out some credit  checks but we have not seen those full results. 
For the January  2013 credit search (just before Loan 1) I have been given a summary which 
shows that 2 searches  had been carried out against  her name  in the previous three  months 
and QuickQuid says that this was an indicator that [she] wasnt in a financial bind. 
Ref: DRN72948183For Loan 2 which was for double the amount of Loan 1 and had a repayment figure of £259,  
then I would have  expected QuickQuid  to know Ms Qs income, her regular outgoings and 
regular financial commitments.
QuickQuid has not been able to show any figures  in relation to these from 2013 and so 
I have gone on to look at what QuickQuid likely would have discovered if it had got this 
information from Ms Q. I used Ms Qs bank statements to see what  these were because  it is 
a convenient and contemporaneous  record. 
However, these statement  copies sent to us by Ms Q commence on 22 April 2013  and 
ideally I would be able to look at the period  of about a month leading up to the application 
date which  was 6 April 2013. I am not able to do this and so I have used the late April 2013 
entries I can see and some of the ones for May 2013 in order  to compile a picture of Ms Qs 
likely regular  expenditure and outgoings  for the period. These  would be items such as rent, 
utilities, travel costs,  phone contracts, credit card repayments, regular loan repayments  and 
similar outgoings.
Ms Qs personal credit file sent to us is a partial  copy and only shows me her short-term  loan 
commitments. At this stage I would not have expected QuickQuid to know about, or search 
for, these type of loans and I say this because at this stage of the lending relationship I think 
that this would have been disproportionate. 
It was proportionate for QuickQuid to rely on Ms Qs declared income  of £1,200.  And I can 
see that her expenditure was about £734  leaving her, in principle, with about £466 to use to 
repay Loan 2. The figure  I have used is a little different to the one our adjudicator used as 
I have seen a £95 payment to an electricity company  and so I have included it as a monthly  
outgoing. So if QuickQuid  had this information  its likely that its lending decision would have 
been the same as it would  have appeared that Ms Q was able to repay  Loan  2.
I know that Ms Qs representative has forwarded  to us the list of outgoings Ms Q had 
prepared for us recently. She says that her regular  monthly outgoings were  £1,490  in total in 
2013. But I have  to agree with out adjudicator  that several of those items listed do not 
appear on Ms Qs 2013 bank statements  or do appear but are for differing amounts. And our 
adjudicator mentioned this in her first letter of opinion in July 2018 and no further figures  or 
explanations have been sent to us by Ms Qs representative. 
It can be difficult remembering expenditure from five years ago. And so in fairness  to both 
parties I have chosen to rely on the entries  and debits from what I have seen on the 
contemporaneous bank statements for April and May 2013. And I add that I do not think  it 
likely that if asked at the time, Ms Q would  have volunteered  regular expenditure  and 
expenses amounting to more  than her declared income as this likely would have led to the 
loan application  being refused. So it seems a fair approach to look at the figures I do have 
and conclude that its more likely than not Ms Q would have presented  these figures. 
So I do not uphold  Ms Qs complaint in relation to Loans 1 and 2. 
Ref: DRN72948184Loan 3
Loan 3 was approved on 30 July 2013.  It follows  a period of time during which  Ms Q had 
asked QuickQuid for several  extensions on Loan 2. She was due to repay  it on 30 April 2013  
but it was still outstanding  in July 2013.  So I do think that this ought to have  alerted  
QuickQuid to the fact that Ms Q may have had difficulty repaying  it. 
And I do take into account the fact that the third line of credit  extended to Ms Q was not a 
payday loan but a FlexCredit account. The limit was set at £600 and I can see that Ms Q 
drew down that full amount on 30 July 2013. It credited her bank account  around that time. 
And the nature of that credit account is that a reasonable  repayment  period of ten months  
was used to calculate the likely repayment sums assuming the credit drawdown  was the full 
amount - £600.  
So QuickQuid had calculated  and presented to Ms Q that the first instalment due was 
around £202. And the instalments after this were  due to reduce  gradually and due to end in 
May 2014. So it is this highest repayment figure of about £202 which I have used to 
determine whether  Ms Q was likely able to afford the FlexCredit  account. 
I have taken into account the fact that this new line of credit was after a number of requests 
from Ms Q to delay repaying  Loan  2 as I outlined  earlier. And the final reminder email that 
Loan 2 was due to be repaid on 31 July 2013  was sent to Ms Q around 25 July 2013. It was 
followed soon afterwards  by Ms Qs application for Loan 3 on 30 July 2013. And the £600 
credit to her bank account was just before the final payment for Loan  2 debited  it. So I think  
its likely  that the FlexCredit account  drawdown  was used to repay Loan 2. 
The FlexCredit account was going to extend  Ms Qs indebtedness for an additional ten 
months to May 2014. In all the circumstances I think that QuickQuid ought to have made 
additional enquires to satisfy it that Ms Q was able to repay the FlexCredit account 
instalments in a sustainable way. I think that that the proportionate check ought  to have 
included checking  if Ms Q had any outstanding short-term loans (STL) with other  lenders on 
30 July 2013 as well as obtaining Ms Qs income  and expenditure. I do not think  that 
QuickQuid did that. So I have gone on to look at the information I have  to see what it would 
have discovered  if it had carried out these  proportionate checks.  
I think that Ms Qs regular outgoings  and expenditure added up to about the same as that in 
April 2013  disposable income  of around £466. But In July 2013,  using the information  
I have from Ms Qs personal credit  file and her bank  statements, I can see that she had been 
borrowing from other short term loan providers. 
By 30 July 2013  the earlier STL I can see Ms Q had, were likely repaid and so I do not take 
those into account  when considering this QuickQuid Loan 3 application. This is because they 
are not likely to have been  outstanding.  The STL taken just before this Loan  3 in 
mid-July 2013 were  too close for it likely  to have been discovered by QuickQuid if it had 
carried out searches  in late July 2013 as I can see from its records it did. And I say this 
because credit files can take time to be updated and not all reporting of all loans appear in 
each and every credit  bureau  search.  
But Ms Qs records  and statements show that she took loans from at least  three other  STL 
lenders in June  2013, one of which I know was an instalment loan from a lender I will call 
Lender B. It was for £500 and the repayment was about £154 in early  August 2013 and 
more due in September 2013.
Ref: DRN72948185Another of these three STL taken in June  I have referred to was repaid on 1 July 2013  and 
so not outstanding when  Ms Q applied for Loan 3. And the other  was repaid on 
28 June 2013  and the same applies  it was not outstanding at the time Ms Q applied  for 
Loan 3. 
I have gone into detail to explain this point  so that Ms Q and her representative understand 
why I say that its unlikely that these loans would have appeared on any credit searches 
carried out by QuickQuid on 30 July 2013. But the instalment loan STL Ms Q had taken with 
Lender B may have registered.  So being  fair to the consumer I have included that repayment 
in the figures.  But it has not made  a difference to the outcome. 
So the due sum for the Lender B STL was £154.  Using the figures I have outlined above, 
I think its likely Ms Q had about £466 left after repayment of her regular expenses and 
expenditure. The combination of the Lender  B £154 due and the Loan  3 first instalment 
(which was the highest amount due) was about £359. And so on balance, if QuickQuid had 
this information  on 30 July 2013  still I think that its lending decision would likely have been 
the same. 
I have looked  at how the FlexCredit  ran and was monitored by QuickQuid  while it was open.  
It ran for four months and Ms Q made one drawdown  the full amount on 30 July 2013. 
Ms Q made monthly repayments in line with the agreement and it was repaid well within the 
anticipated ten month repayment period. So QuickQuid was not likely to have received any 
indication that Ms Q was not able to manage  her account.
I do not uphold  Ms Qs complaint in relation to Loan  3.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Qs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms Q to accept 
or reject my decision before XX February  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7294818