K820x#14complaint
Miss G says MYJAR  Limited (MYJAR) shouldnt have provided her with her loans because  
at the same  time as taking these loans she had outstanding balances  with other payday 
lenders and her credit  report showed  that she had a number of defaulted accounts. 
background
Miss G took two loans  from MYJAR between January  and February 2017. It seems  that she 
had some difficulties repaying  her final loan and an outstanding balance remains. 
A summary  of Miss Gs borrowing, based on the information provided  to us from MYJAR,  
can be found in the table  below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived  dateactual  
repayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsMax monthly 
contractual  
repayment
1 £550.00 24/01/2017 31/01/2017 6 £156.31
2 £1,700.00 01/02/2017 outstanding 12 £245.66
In our adjudicators assessment he didnt think that MYJAR had treated Miss G unfairly when 
it approved these loans.  This was because it carried out proportionate checks  and the 
information it gathered  suggested that Miss G would be in a position  to be able to meet  the 
repayments she was committed  to making.  So he didnt think it was wrong  of MYJAR to 
have provided  these loans.  
Miss G didnt  accept the adjudicators findings, in response she made a number of points, 
including:
she had a number  of pay day loans running at the same  time as she took these 
loans, 
Miss G was making debt repayments to StepChange and 
the frequency of borrowing shouldve given MYJAR cause for concern. 
MYJAR appears to have  accepted the adjudicators findings. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether 
Miss G could  repay her loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
Ref: DRN75816582Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
MYJAR says it agreed to Miss Gs applications  after she provided details of her monthly  
income and expenditure. And, based  on what she declared, the information suggested that 
Miss G would be able to make the repayments she was committing  to. So, in these 
circumstances it wasnt irresponsible to provide  these loans. 
I accept that Miss Gs financial circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information MYJAR obtained via the credit checks. 
And Miss Gs actual financial position  might well have been apparent if further information  
such as bank statements  or a copy of actual credit report had been obtained. 
But MYJAR could  only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I think  the checks were 
proportionate. Taking  into account the information  Miss G provided  about her income 
(£1,700) and her expenditure (£1,131)  the monthly repayments appeared affordable based 
on this information.  
Miss G only took two loans, so while further, more in-depth checks may well have been  
necessary and reasonable had Sunny continued  to lend to her. But as this didnt happen, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  of MYJAR to have relied on the information it was provided 
and gathered. 
I also dont think it had reached the stage where  there was a greater risk of the loan being  
unsustainable for Miss G. In these circumstances, I dont think  MYJAR needed to take 
further steps to verify the information she had provided  such  as asking Miss G for evidence 
of her income and outgoings which MYJAR couldve gathered  from her bank statements, 
bills or a copy of her credit  report. 
So based  on the information  that MYJAR  had available  at the time of each lending  decision, 
I dont think it was wrong of it to have provided  either loan. 
Ive thought about Miss Gs comments about what her actual credit report may have  shown 
at the time. But what I have to consider is the information that MYJAR  obtained  from the 
credit reference agencies, and whether this information ought to have led MYJAR to make  
further enquires, or indeed decline the application. But, what I would add at this point, is the 
information MYJAR saw wasnt  exactly the same as what Miss G may have seen on her full 
credit report.  
 
For example, MYJAR was aware  some  headline  information - like the number of new 
accounts shed  opened in the previous three  months  and that she had credit commitments 
debt repayments  due of £34. 
Ref: DRN75816583These figures MYJAR  obtained  from the credit reference may not be as detailed  or as up to 
date as Miss Gs full credit report,  but MYJAR  was entitled to rely on the information given to 
it by the credit reference agencies. And I dont  think it had reached the stage where it 
needed to verify the information  that Miss G provided, what  it saw from the credit searches. 
As a result, I dont think it wouldve been apparent that this £34 figure may not have been 
accurate or that Miss G was making repayments to StepChange. 
And based on the credit information MYJAR had available, I dont think, this on its own was 
enough for it to automatically decline the applications for credit. So I dont think  MYJAR was 
wrong to have provided these loans, based on the information it gathered  from the credit 
reference agency. In addition, I dont  think it had any reason to doubt the information  Miss G 
gave it when she applied  for the loans.  
I appreciate that this decision  will come as a disappointment for Miss G, but I want  to assure 
her that Ive thought about and considered  all the evidence that has been  made  available  to 
me. 
Finally, there does appear to be an outstanding balance on the final loan, and it isnt clear 
whether this loan has been sold to a third party. If MYJAR still has control over this loan, Id 
remind it of its obligation  to treat Miss G fairly in discussing a way forward  with her.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7581658