K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint where I set out the background to this 
complaint and my initial thoughts on why I thought more loans should be upheld.  I gave both 
parties the opportunity to provide further comments or evidence before I made a final 
decision.
Ive attached the detailed  background and my provisional reasoning as they form part of this 
final decision.
Mr A didnt have anything further  to add but Uncle Buck responded to say it disagreed with 
my provisional decision. It seems  to agree that it shouldnt have lent Mr A loans 2 and 3. But 
it says its checks  before  lending the subsequent  loans suggest that Mr A could afford the 
loans and he wasnt dependent  on this type of lending.
my findings
Ive again reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive taken into account  all the information provided by both parties. I explained in my 
provisional decision that Id considered Uncle Bucks submissions about its checks  before  
lending to Mr A and how on the face of it, the loans seemed affordable on a pounds and 
pence calculation  but the pattern  of lending here remains concerning.
I dont agree with Uncle Buck that Mr A wasnt reliant on these loans,  I think he was and that 
was why he was requesting  new loans  in quick successions. I think given the length of time 
he was borrowing from Uncle Buck, a responsible lender should have been  aware  that he 
wasnt borrowing for a short term cash flow problem but likely using it as a long term 
financial solution. These loans arent suitable as a long term financial solution or lifestyle  
choice as Uncle Buck argues. And even though Mr As loan amounts fluctuated, the loan 
amounts were usually  increasing to more than double  by the next loan, loans 4 and 5 and 
loans 6 and 7 demonstrate this.
So overall, I think the lending from loan 4 shouldnt have been  given to Mr A as there were 
sufficient indications that the lending  wasnt sustainable  or was otherwise harmful.  And 
Uncle Buck  needs  to put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
 refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 2 to 11;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative information  about loans 2 and 3 from Mr As credit  file;
Ref: DRN74573952 the number  of loans  taken from loan 4 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 to 11 should  be removed 
from Mr As credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck  
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr As complaint in part 
and require Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put things right as stated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Tola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74573953Extract of provisional decision
background
This complaint is about  11 short term loans Uncle Buck  provided to Mr A between  June 2015 and 
November 2017. Mr As borrowing history  is as follows:
loan 
number start dateloan amount
(£) end date
1 05/06/2015 175 28/08/2015
2 29/08/2015 550 30/11/2015
3 16/12/2015 275 29/02/2016
4 15/03/2016 100 31/05/2016
5 05/06/2016 275 31/08/2016
6 01/09/2016 125 30/11/2016
7 08/12/2016 350 28/02/2017
8 25/03/2017 350 28/02/2017
9 12/07/2017 275 29/09/2017
10 07/10/2017 350 02/11/2017
11 09/11/2017 200 19/03/2018
Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint in part and thought the loans 7, 8 and 9 shouldnt have 
been given as proportionate checks were  likely to show Mr A couldnt  afford  the loans. Uncle Buck 
disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could  repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
 the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could  be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  
a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN74573954There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important  for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck was required to establish whether 
Mr A could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make  repayments  on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows  that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Uncle Buck says that before  it lent any of the loans, it asked Mr A about  his monthly income and 
normal living  costs. From what I can see, Mr As income ranged  from £2,700 to £3,318 and his 
expenses including regular credit commitments ranged from £1,273 to £1,950.Uncle Buck  also says 
it searched Mr As credit  file and has provided  the results of its search.
I think Uncle Bucks  checks for loan 1 went far enough  but I think  that loan 2 onwards shouldnt have 
been given to Mr A. I say this because the credit check showed that Mr A had four delinquent 
accounts and the value of Mr As active short term loans had more  than doubled from the time of loan 
1. I can also see that at the time loan 2 was approved, Mr A had repaid more than £2,300 towards 
short term loans in the previous month and he had three other active  short  term loans  at the time loan 
2 was approved. I think that these factors in the credit file suggest  that Mr A had problems managing 
his money and so Uncle Buck shouldve  realised this and shouldnt have lent loans 2 and 3 and the 
subsequent loans as I dont think it was a sustainable position for Mr A.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mr A, with a view to 
seeing if there  was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle Buck should have realised  that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr As case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
 At this point Uncle Buck  ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay  their loans 
sustainably. Mr A had been indebted to Uncle Buck for more than nine months without any 
breaks in borrowing. So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr A 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr As indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 Throughout the lending  Mr A was provided with a new loan within days  of settling a 
previous one. I think that by loan 4, that pattern of borrowing again  quickly after repaying  
a previous loan was established.
 I dont think Mr A was making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck.
Loan 19 was taken out around 29 months after Mr As first loan. Mr A had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Uncle  Buck over an extended period  
something these types of loans are unsuitable for.
Ref: DRN74573955I think that Mr A lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing  from loan 4 
onwards because:
 these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 the number of loans   and the length of time over which Mr A borrowed was likely  to have 
had negative implications  on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im aware that the adjudicators view on the complaint went into detail about Mr As income and 
expenses and how she thought that for most of the loans, Mr A had sufficient  disposable  income to 
afford those loans. And Ive taken into account Uncle Bucks submissions about Mr As disposable  
income from the checks it says it carried out. But I think  the pattern of lending as well as the 
information Uncle Buck gathered from its credit checks are important  factors that need  to be 
considered.
The pattern of lending in my view showed  that the lending was unsustainable  for Mr A and a 
responsible lender like Uncle Buck shouldnt  have continued to lend even if the pound and pence 
calculation suggest  the loans were affordable. I think Uncle Buck had gathered sufficient  information 
to suggest that Mr A had wider financial  problems and it should have reacted to that information.
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans  2 onwards and Uncle Buck  should  put things 
right.
Ref: DRN7457395