K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to her in allowing her a credit card when  
she was struggling  with other debts. She would  like them  to refund all interest and charges 
and remove any negative  information from her credit file. 
background
In September  2015, Mrs D applied for and was approved for a credit card from NewDay 
trading as Aqua. The credit limit was £300. 
On 2 December  2015, Aqua wrote to Mrs D offering to increase her limit to £900.  The letter 
allowed her to opt out of this increase if she wanted to. Mrs D didnt opt out and her credit  
was extended  by a further £600. Since then, she has been  close to or over her credit  limit. 
Mrs D complained to NewDay that they had irresponsibly lent to her. 
NewDay wrote their final response letter on 19 December 2018.  They  didnt think  that they 
had irresponsibly lent to Mrs D. They felt that they had carried out the proper checks  when 
they first offered her the credit card and again  when they offered her the credit  limit increase. 
Mrs D didnt agree so she came to us. 
Our investigator found that NewDay hadnt irresponsibly lent to Mrs D. He thought that they 
were right to have given  her a credit card with a limit of £300. This was affordable.  But, when 
they increased the limit by a further £600,  he thought  that it wasnt  affordable  for Mrs D and 
that NewDay shouldve  known she was struggling  with managing her account as she had 
gone over her credit limit twice in the three  months that shed had the credit  card.  Also, she 
had other  debts. 
He thought that NewDay should:
refund  all interest and charges from the date of the new credit limit in December 
2018;
pay Mrs D 8% simple  interest from the date on the limit increase to the date of 
settlement;
arrange a payment  plan so Mrs D could repay the £600 additional borrowing that 
shed had the use of without incurring  charges  or interest;
revert the credit  card to the £300 limit to be run within NewDays usual terms and 
conditions. 
NewDay werent happy with this decision so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that NewDay wont  be happy with my decision. I think the investigator has made 
the right decision.  I will explain why. 
Ive considered the checks that NewDay carried out when they first approved Mrs D for the 
credit card. I think that these were sufficient  and they were right to set the limit for credit at 
£300. Mrs D had other debts but she was managing these. 
Ref: DRN74805062I think that NewDay didnt  properly consider how Mrs D was managing her account when 
they increased her credit  limit to £900. This was quite  a substantial increase. 
The investigator applied  the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook (the Handbook). In 
particular, he said:
The handbook sets out at CONC 6.2.1 to 3 what a firm must consider when significantly 
increasing a credit limit. The primary requirement  is that the provider of credit  must 
undertake an assessment  of credit worthiness. To achieve this they should  consider the 
potential for the rise in credit  limit to adversely impact the customer's  financial situation  as 
well as the ability to make repayments over the life of the regulated agreement.
NewDay say that they have  built their own assessment based on the principles articulated in 
CONC. They say that, although Mrs D had gone over her credit limit for two months  out of 
the last three before  the limit was extended,  she had still managed to make more  than her 
minimum payments. Also, Mrs Ds pay day loans hadnt been  defaulted  in the last 12 
months. Nor had they been in arrears in the last 6 months. 
Whilst I accept  that this was the case, I still dont  think that NewDay  properly considered the 
affordability of the credit  increase.  I think that NewDay shouldnt  have considered  that Mrs D 
was managing her account. She had been  over her credit limit for two out of the three  
months that she had had the credit card. This wasnt a good  sign.  
Additionally, she had other loans that were  relatively  large. I think  that these werent properly 
considered by NewDay in deciding to increase  her credit limit. 
I note that Mrs D had the choice of opting  out of the credit  increase. I dont  think  that this is 
relevant because I dont  think that it shouldve been  offered  to Mrs D in the first place. 
I think that the increase in the credit limit was unaffordable for Mrs D. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require NewDay Ltd to:
refund  all interest and charges from the date of the new credit limit in December 
2018;
pay Mrs D 8% simple  interest from the date on the limit increase to the date of 
settlement;
arrange a payment  plan so Mrs D can repay  the £600 additional borrowing that shes  
had the use of without incurring charges or interest;
revert the credit  card to the £300 limit to be run within NewDays usual terms and 
conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74805063
Ref: DRN7480506