K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc rejected his section  75 claim when he complained 
about issues hed experienced  with a car.
background
In September  2017 Mr H was supplied with a second  hand car and made a part payment  
using his Halifax credit  card.
Mr H says he experienced problems with the car immediately.  He had to have the clutch  
repaired. He also identified other  issues including  a faulty electric  window switch (now 
repaired by the dealer), juddering (now repaired by the dealer) and faulty service lights  on 
the dashboard. 
When Mr H couldnt resolve these issues with the dealer he complained to Halifax.  Halifax  
said it wasnt able to uphold the complaint because the issues  with the car werent inherent 
defects.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that although it was clear that Mr H 
had experienced some  issues  with the car, there was nothing to suggest that these were 
point of supply  faults. She concluded  that Halifax hadnt acted unfairly  in rejecting the section 
75 claim.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the car had a fault with the clutch when he purchased it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Mr H has a like claim against Halifax as 
he does against  the dealer for breach  of contract and/or misrepresentation.
For the purposes of section 75, a breach of contract  is where a supplier  fails to do what the 
contract says it must, either expressly  or impliedly.  For example, there  is a breach of 
contract where goods which  have been  paid for are not supplied,  or where the goods are not 
up to standard.
The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what  happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim  under section 75. In considering a 
complaint about  a financial service  provider (in this case, Halifax),  Im not determining  the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. In deciding whats a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Hs complaint Ive taken section 75 into account.  But this 
doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome  as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr H pursued  a claim for breach of contract.
Ive looked at the available information  and I can see that Mr H has experienced some  
issues with the car. Under the Consumer  Rights Act theres an implied term that a car has to 
be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality  means the car is of a standard  that a 
Ref: DRN71960702reasonable person would expect, taking  into account  (amongst other things) the age and 
mileage of the car.
In order to uphold  the complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent fault as opposed to wear and 
tear.
Im aware that the dealer has repaired some of the issues.  Under  the Consumer Rights Act, 
a business has the right to attempt a repair. Only if the repair is unsuccessful can the 
consumer reject the car.
In this case, the issues relating to the electric  window and the juddering  have been  
successfully repaired.  The dashboard lights dont appear to be affecting the functionality  of 
the lights themselves,  so I cant fairly  conclude that this is a fault.
I appreciate that Mr H has had to have the clutch repaired. Theres nothing to suggest  that 
the clutch was faulty at the point of supply. The car covered  approximately 7,750 miles from 
the point of supply before the clutch needed repairing. This is significant mileage and if there 
had been an inherent fault with the clutch  at the point of supply  I wouldnt  have  expected the 
car to have been  able to cover this amount of mileage before a repair was needed.
Because of this, I think its more likely that the clutch needed to be repaired as a result of 
wear and tear, as opposed to an inherent defect.
On balance, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Halifax  to reject the section 75 claim, 
because I dont think theres enough  evidence  to show that the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality. In other words,  there was no breach of contract.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7196070