K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a table she acquired with finance from Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF).
background
Miss M says she bought  a dining table and matching chairs  in November 2017 and they 
were delivered the following month. She says she complained to the retailer  in July 2018 
about splintering and scratching on the table top and that it was absorbent, so liquids left 
marks.
Miss M also says in response to her complaint the retailer said the table was made  from 
completely untreated reclaimed timber and can mark easily. And that the product 
specification wouldve been  discussed with her by the salesperson.  But Miss M says this 
wasnt mentioned  by the salesperson or referred  to in the care manual. And if it had been 
she wouldve taken steps to protect the table.
In addition, Miss M says the retailer has offered to supply a glass  top for the table at a 
reduced cost. But she says if this had been  mentioned when she was buying it, she wouldve 
bought a glass top then to prevent the table  from getting damaged. And she says the tables 
already damaged so theres no point  in putting a see through glass top on it now.
So, Miss M says her ideal outcome would be for the table to be replaced with a new one and 
she would  put a glass top on it.   
Our investigator thought Miss Ms complaint  shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss M disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. She gave us information from the 
retailers website which she said clearly describes the table as reclaimed timber but she 
said it doesnt state anywhere  in the product description that its untreated.  She said her 
invoice doesnt  even state its untreated.  And she said the tables clearly been  mis-sold.        
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
CCF provided the finance Miss M used to buy her dining table. So, this means  she has an 
equal right to seek redress from it for any breach  of contract or misrepresentation as she has 
from the retailer. 
I see when Miss M complained to the retailer  about  this matter it arranged  an independent 
inspection that found the table had loads of marks and a big scratch but the inspector 
concluded this was in-house damage and that there was no fault with the table, which  was 
later confirmed as matching the in-store display model.
Ref: DRN73056602So, in light of the contents of the independent  inspection report, I cant  conclude  the table 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M.
I note Miss M hasnt suggested she was wrongly told the table was treated or finished, rather 
that she wasnt told it was untreated. Ive seen  sales information  for the range of furniture in 
question that says The timber is untreated  with no protection, so table mats,  coasters,  along  
with a tablecloth  need to be used.  I dont know whether Miss M saw this information before 
she bought the table  and I dont know what discussions took place between  her and the 
salesperson. But from everything Ive seen I dont have enough information to conclude its 
most likely the table was misrepresented to her during the sales process.    
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Miss Ms complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against  Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.                      
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7305660