K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in letting him have a credit  card.  
background
Mr K applied for a credit card in October  2013 and it was granted with a £250 limit. His 
application form showed he was employed earning  £21,800 and he had other income of 
£1,080 and unsecured  debts elsewhere of £5,600. NewDay  carried  out a credit  check and 
this showed he had one defaulted  account and seven open accounts and six pay-day loan 
accounts. There also appeared  to be an arrangement to pay in place with one of his lenders.
In 2018 Mr K complained to NewDay and it rejected the complaint. It said the card account  
was aimed at those  with poor or absent credit  history.  It had carried out appropriate checks  
and Mr K had met its criteria. He then brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. 
He noted the credit  check showed Mr K had faced some financial difficulty  in recent times. 
But, he didnt think there was enough  in his recent  history for NewDay to think this account 
was going to cause him problems. The investigator noted Mr K had a default on his record 
which was recorded  nearly four years before this application. The report  also showed he had 
no issues with the accounts he had open at this time. Importantly, it also didnt show he had 
CCJs, bankruptcies or IVAs which would clearly indicate lending  to him would be 
inappropriate.
On top of this the credit  level was low and had not been increased since.  Overall  the 
investigator thought  it was reasonable for NewDay to have approved his application. In doing  
so he took note of the fact Mr K had subsequently suffered financial problems. Mr K didnt 
agree and asked  for his case to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. He also asked that his 
credit file be amended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr K has faced some  challenging times with his finances, but I gather he has 
now addressed  these with the help of a debt management charity.  I trust this is now enabling 
him to get on top of his financial  worries.
However, I have to consider the actions  of NewDay in 2013 when Mr K made the 
application. As the investigator has pointed out there  was evidence of some  financial 
problems, but the question  is whether these  were sufficient to deny Mr K what he was 
seeking, access to a credit card. It would be wrong  for those with a poor credit history  to be 
denied access to all opportunities to credit. As NewDay has pointed out its credit card is 
aimed at those who need some credit and a chance to build up a satisfactory credit history. I 
am also mindful that the credit  limit was set fairly low and has never  been increased.  
I appreciate his credit history was less than perfect, but his income and known loans showed 
that granting him a credit card with a small limit was not unreasonable. How he used the 
card was up to him and he could keep his monthly payments relatively low. While I have 
Ref: DRN78262602every sympathy with Mr K I cannot  safely conclude that NewDay  did anything  wrong  and as 
such I cannot ask it to repay him interest etc. or to amend his credit  file. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
10 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826260