K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr B and Mrs S say National & Provincial Building Society, now known as 
Santander UK Plc, mis-sold them the PPI. 
Ill refer only to Santander as the seller in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive reviewed a copy of Mr B and Mrs S signed mortgage  application  form and I believe 
Santander made it clear that Mr B and Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I cant say for sure what happened at the time, but I cant see that 
Santander suggested they had to have the PPI if they wanted  the mortgage.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example, they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover as theres  nothing  to 
suggest Mr B and Mrs S had any other  means  of meeting their monthly repayments if 
Mr B wasnt  working.   
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr B and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But they chose to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr B and Mrs S have said  including what  theyve said about 
being pressured into taking the PPI. But this doesnt change  my decision.  I say that because 
I havent seen  enough evidence to show that undue pressure was applied to them at the 
time of the sale.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santanders told us that the commission for Mr B and Mrs S PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santanders been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr B and Mrs S commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr B and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN72397302my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7239730