K820x#14complaint
Miss I complains about the way NRAM Limited (NRAM)  sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss I applied for the PPI in 2000 to protect her mortage. When it was set up, the policy 
would pay £400  a month for up to a year if Miss I lost her job or was off work  sick. Miss I 
thought the policy was mis-sold.
NRAM investigated Miss Is complaint and thought it should be upheld. It offered to put 
Miss I in the position  shed be in if she hadnt  bought  the policy. But NRAM said Miss I had 
claimed on the policy when she lost her job  and she got more back when  she claimed than 
shed paid for the policy. So NRAM didnt  think it needed to pay Miss I anything.
Miss I didnt agree. She said she wanted cover  for unemployment  but shouldnt  have  been  
sold cover  for accident and sickness. So she thinks she should get the cost of this back,  
together with interest to compensate her for the time shes been  out of pocket.
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Is complaint on 8 February 2019. I explained that 
based on what Id seen so far, what NRAM had done was fair.
I said that where I decide  or a business  agrees  that a complaint about the sale of PPI 
should be upheld,  Id expect the business  to put the consumer in the position  theyd  be in if 
they hadnt bought  the policy.
If Miss I hadnt bought  the policy, she wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy.  So Id 
normally say it was fair for NRAM to take off the amount she got when she claimed  on the 
policy from what it needs to pay Miss I now. As Miss I got more  back when she claimed than 
she paid for the policy, this means shed get nothing.
I considered Miss Is suggestion that shed still have  bought the unemployment cover.  But 
based on what Id seen I wasnt persuaded she wanted the unemployment  part of the policy 
either. This is because  she told NRAM shed  get very generous pay if she lost her job  
more than shed  get if shed been off work sick. And shed told us that she had sufficient 
means to meet  her mortgage payments  during her period of unemployment even if the policy  
wasnt in place.
So based  on what Miss I had told us, I wasnt persuaded that shed have  just bought  cover  
for unemployment. I thought she wouldnt have bought the policy at all. And that is the 
position NRAMs offer put her in.
I also looked at the commission  NRAM got when it sold Miss I the PPI. I took into account 
the rules set by the Financial Conduct  Authority. These say that businesses  should first look 
at whether the policy was mis-sold, and whether the consumer would still have bought  the 
policy. Only if the policy  wasnt  mis-sold  would  the business go on to look at whether any 
failure to tell the consumer about  commission created an unfair relationship.
NRAM had said Miss I wouldnt  have  bought  the policy at all. So the rules didnt require 
NRAM to look at the commission it got from Miss Is policy  and I saw no reason in Miss Is 
case to make them do anything different.
Ref: DRN74318782For these reasons, I thought it was fair for NRAM to take the successful claim from what  it 
needed to pay Miss I. I said that Id consider any further comments I received by 
8 March 2019.
NRAM hasnt sent me anything further to consider. Miss I doesnt agree  that what NRAM 
has done is fair. So Ive looked at the complaint  again. 
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss I doesnt agree  that what  NRAM has done is fair. Miss I says she was employed  by 
NRAM  and she says she only claimed on the policy after she lost her job because of 
NRAMs reckless  business dealings.  She feels that NRAM should be held to account for its 
recklessness  and that I should  take this into account when reaching my decision.
Ive carefully considered  the points Miss I has made.  But this doesnt  change  my decision.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I still think Miss I wouldnt have bought the PPI. 
To put this right Id expect  NRAM to put Miss I in the position shed have been in if she 
hadnt bought the policy.
If Miss I hadnt bought  the policy, then she couldnt  have claimed on the policy.  And so Id 
normally say it was fair for NRAM to take the value of the claim off any compensation it 
needed to pay.
Miss I wants  me to take into account  the circumstances that led to her redundancy. I can 
certainly understand why she feels strongly about this. But her redundancy doesnt  have  
anything to do with the way NRAM sold her this PPI policy  and so this is not something Id 
award additional compensation for.
I appreciate that Miss I is disappointed that this means she gets no further compensation. 
But thats just because she got more  money  back when she claimed on the PPI than shed  
paid for the policy. Given that Miss I benefitted considerably from having the PPI in place, I 
dont think it would be fair to make  NRAM pay her more.
In all the circumstances, I think what NRAM has done is fair.
Ref: DRN74318783my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that NRAM Limited can deduct  the successful 
claim from what it would need to pay Miss I to put things right. So I dont make  a further 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7431878