K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA) unfairly turned down Mr Rs travel 
insurance claim following  him falling ill while abroad. 
The complaint is brought  on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf by their daughter,  Ms M. 
My references to AXA will include its agents. 
background
Mr and Mrs R travelled  abroad in June  2018. Unfortunately,  Mr R became unwell and was 
taken to hospital where he was diagnosed  with B-cell lymphoprofilterative disorder with 
cryoglobulinaemuia. He went  on to require surgery to amputate  areas of his limbs and digits.  
Mr R remained  in hospital for an extended period and later stayed with a family member 
whilst attending further appointments  at the hospital, until he was deemed  fit to fly home to 
the UK. 
Mr Rs treatment costs  abroad were covered by a reciprocal health agreement  with the UK. 
And his originally booked  return flight was rearranged  with the airline. However, Mr R paid 
for an upgraded seat due to his medical condition. 
Mr R made  a claim for costs he had to pay for transportation between  the hospital and where  
he was staying after being discharged, as well as the costs of necessary medical  equipment 
and medication, and additional flight costs.  
AXA turned down the claim, so Ms M complained on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf.
AXA said it turned  down Mr Rs claim as he hadnt declared a pre-existing medical condition  
which its medical team deemed to be linked to the condition Mr R was diagnosed with 
abroad. And it said that if Mr R had declared the pre-existing condition - leukocytoclastic 
vasculitis  it would  have  been unable to provide  cover.  
Unhappy with AXAs response, Ms M brought the complaint to us. An investigator here 
looked into what had happened and said she didnt think AXA had done  anything wrong. 
She said she accepted  that AXA wouldnt have provided cover for the pre-existing condition  
leukocytoclastic vasculitis. And said she thought  it was most likely that this was linked to the 
condition which caused Mr R to fall ill abroad. 
Ms M didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im very sorry to hear of the illness Mr R suffered, and the resulting and lasting  
impacts of this. 
Ive looked at the relevant  rules  and industry guidelines,  which  say AXA has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly  and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive also 
considered the law which applies to misrepresentation  when buying  an insurance policy.
Ref: DRN74469572The terms of the policy state the following in regard to pre-existing medical conditions.  
If you answer yes to either of the following medical  screening questions please call 
0345 602 1222, as this affects your policy and you may not be covered.
Regarding any person  to be insured, does anyone have any medical conditions that 
they have, or have  had for which:
(a) they are currently taking prescribed medication, or,
(b) they are waiting to receive, or have received treatment (including surgery,  tests or 
investigation) within  six months prior to the opening of the account, or within six 
months prior to booking  any trips,  whichever  is later.
Medical conditions  that you have, or have had that are not on the No Screen 
Conditions list must  be declared  and cover agreed with the insurer .
Mr R booked his trip in March 2018.  During  the six months prior to this, Mr Rs medical 
records show he was diagnosed with primary raynauds. This was at an appointment with a 
specialist  Doctor B  in October 2017.  
The report  by Doctor  B also referenced Mr Rs medical history  of leukocytoclastic  vasculitis,  
diagnosed in December 2014,  following  a biopsy by a different specialist. Doctor B said: 
I gather he had two episodes where he has had a purpuric rash with associated joint pain 
and these have  been following the flu jab. He also said of Mr R: He has been seen by the 
dermatologist and biopsy  suggested leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Symptoms  resolved  after 
a month  spontaneously without  any additional  treatment. And he said:  I suspect the 
episodes that he is describing were  henoch-schonlein purpura. 
Doctor Bs 23 October 2017 report states leukocytoclastic  vasculitis  likely  henoch 
schonlein purpura  / hypocomplementernic urticarial vasculitis under previous history.  
Mr Rs medical  records  show  he went on to have  another flu jab on 28 October  2017. And in 
a medical appointment on 6 November 2017, the doctor noted Mr R always gets a flare of 
HSP when he has his flu jab. 
Based on this medical evidence, I think Mr R was required to make AXA aware of the 
conditions primary reynauds,  leukocytoclastic vasculitis  and henoch  schonlein purpura  / 
hypocomplementernic urticarial vasculitis. He had previously been diagnosed with 
leukocytoclastic vasculitis and another doctor further  clarified  the form of leukocytoclastic  
vasculitis Mr R had was likely to be henoch schonlein purpura  / hypocomplementernic  
urticarial vasculitis. The medical  notes  show that Mr R saw a doctor with symptoms of 
henoch schonlein purpura in November 2017,  which was within  six months of the date he 
booked his holiday. And none of the conditions Mr R was diagnosed with appear on AXAs  
list of no screen conditions within the policy terms. 
Mr R accepts that he may have forgotten to make a call to AXA to declare his conditions.  So, 
under the relevant legislation, I think Mr R can be said to have made a careless 
misrepresentation. This means AXA is entitled  to do what it would have done if Mr R had told 
it about his above mentioned medical conditions. 
Ref: DRN74469573I know Mr R feels  he was covered in the past,  but AXA has no record  of this. And AXA 
completed a retrospective  screening and advised  that if Mr R had declared  all of his pre-
existing medical conditions, it would have been unable to provide cover for them for this trip. 
In any event, the policy states  the following about pre-existing medical conditions under the 
exclusions section. 
You will not be covered
For any claims arising directly or indirectly  from:
Any Medical Condition  You have, or have had, for which You are taking prescribed 
medication or are waiting  to receive,  or have received treatment (including surgery,  
tests or investigations)  within  the six months prior to opening Your  Added Value 
Account or within the six months prior to booking any Trip, whichever is later,  unless 
You have  contacted Us and We have agreed, in writing to cover You.
This means  Mr R would not be covered  for any claims  relating directly  or indirectly to his pre-
existing medical conditions of primary reynauds,  leukocytoclastic vasculitis and henoch  
schonlein purpura  / hypocomplementernic urticarial vasculitis. 
When Mr R fell ill abroad, he was diagnosed with B-cell lymphoprofilterative disorder  with 
cryoglobulinemia. AXA has said it believes Mr Rs condition  of cryoglobulinemia is linked to 
his pre-existing condition  of leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and as such, turned down his claim.  
AXAs chief  medical  officer said the following. 
At the time of diagnosis,  it was speculated he had a case  of henoch-schoenlein  
purpura (again,  a manifestation,  but may be indicative of an underlying  disorder). 
This was simply speculative the cause was never determined.
As both leucocytoclastic vasculitis and the subsequent cryglobulinemic  vasculitis,  
both of which can be associated with underlying lymphoma (which can present in an 
indolent or slow progression) are very uncommon dermatologic conditions,  we felt 
this was far more than coincidence. They are almost  certainly related.
Our conclusion is that the manifestation for which he had been treated several 
months before finally presented in Australia  with a full-blown vasculitis  whereby they 
were able to definitively  make a diagnosis and cause.  Admittedly,  this was not 
anticipated by the doctors  he had seen in the UK, but that does not change  the 
relationship.
Together with further evidence  AXA has provided from an online medical  textbook,  this 
persuades me that its more likely than not that the conditions  are linked. 
Ms M disagrees  that the conditions are linked. She provided a letter from Mr Rs usual GP, 
who has suggested that the benefit  of hindsight has been used to link the conditions.  Ive 
considered this, but this letter provides no evidence to persuade me that the conditions  
arent linked.  I also note that the GP appears to be under the impression  that Mr R had told 
AXA about his diagnosis of henoch schonlein purpura. However, Ive seen that this was not 
the case. 
Ref: DRN74469574Ms M has said shes more recently  been  advised that Mr R may not have had henoch 
schonlein purpura  or leukocytoclastic vasculitis and that the rash he experienced before his 
trip may have just been  a reaction. And she had previously provided  a copy  of a letter from 
one of the treating doctors abroad,  which said the illness could  not have been foreseen.  
I accept Ms Ms points here. But the accuracy of the original diagnosis, and whether or not 
Mr Rs illness abroad could have  been  foreseen doesnt make a difference in terms of the 
claim. The policy requires  the pre-existing conditions Mr R was aware of to be declared.  AXA 
wouldnt have covered these conditions if it had been told about them. And AXA is entitled to 
refuse to pay a claim resulting from a condition directly or indirectly linked to a pre-existing 
condition. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  that had Mr R declared the conditions he had 
been made aware of prior to booking his trip, AXA would have advised it was unable  to 
provide cover for those conditions. And Ive seen sufficient evidence that Mr Rs 
cryoglobulinemia is most likely linked  to the pre-existing  leukocytoclastic vasculitis.  Because 
of this, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in turning  down  the claim. 
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And I make no award against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7446957