K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that when he made  an online payment on his HSBC UK Bank Plc business  
account an error message was shown prompting  him to resubmit the payment. As a result 
the payment was sent twice.
background
HSBC said in its final response that this appeared to be a system  error.  But the beneficiary 
has sent one on the payments back to Mr H. It apologised for originally telling Mr H on the 
phone that one payment hadnt  gone  through. Itd sent him a case of wine for any 
inconvenience caused. HSBC subsequently offered to pay Mr H an additional £200 
compensation.
Mr H didnt accept this offer. He said he wants free business banking for the next two years  
due to the severe stress  and inconvenience hes been caused and as it made his company  
look bad. HSBC declined  to give him this. 
Mr H remained  unhappy and said the error  message said Error  try again. HSBC  had 
taken the money  out of his account twice.  He wants £2,000 to £2,500 compensation. HSBC 
has declined  to increase its offer.
HSBC also said the payments  Mr H refers  to werent  duplicates.  The reference  numbers  are 
different. Otherwise Business Internet Banking wouldve prompted him with a duplicate  
payment warning. It hasnt been  able to identify any system based error.  HSBC previously 
and in good faith sent Mr H a £62 sorry gift of a case of wine to recognise any inconvenience  
that he mayve been caused. It considers thats fair and reasonable.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said that while she appreciates  
the trouble and upset the payments caused  Mr H, HSBC has been fair and reasonable in the 
compensation its offered. She isnt suggesting any further remedy like free banking  as Mr H 
would like. 
Mr H doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
HSBC says the first payment appears  to have been a new beneficiary and the second would 
have then been added as an existing  payee.  The payments were input separately  with 
separate references. There were no known system issues around that time. Its feasible 
there was a customer error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt entirely clear if what happened was the result  of a banking  system error, as was 
apparently originally accepted in HSBCs final response letter, or an error by Mr H as HSBC  
has recently suggested was a possibility.
But whatever happened,  Mr H hasnt  lost any money  as the second  payment sent was 
quickly returned to him by the recipient. Even so Mr H has clearly been caused  some 
Ref: DRN74415922inconvenience and distress by what happened. HSBC has sent him a case of wine and 
offered an additional £200 compensation for this. 
Mr H doesnt think thats enough and has asked  for two years free banking and also 
mentioned a payment of up to £2,500 compensation. Although  I recognise  Mr Hs frustration 
and strength of feeling I think an award  at those levels would be far too high.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think HSBCs offer 
of £200 compensation, in addition to the case of wine, is fair in this case for any distress and 
inconvenience Mr H has experienced.  And I dont think  I can reasonably require HSBC to do 
or offer any more, including paying  additional compensation over and above  what  its already 
offered or to provide free banking as Mr H would like.
Overall I think  the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.  I simply leave it to 
Mr H to decide if he now wants to accept HSBCs existing offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7441592