K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc lost a cheque she deposited and hasnt credit her 
account with the funds.  
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 31 December 2019. A copy of this is 
attached below and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this 
complaint, and I explained why I thought it should be upheld, and why Lloyds should 
increase its offer of compensation to Mrs W.
Both parties  to responded to say they accepted  the findings in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, and in light of the fact both parties  said they agreed with my provisional 
findings, it follows that Ive reached the same  conclusions  I did in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
If it hasnt  done  so already Lloyds Bank Plc must pay Mrs W:
 
a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by its poor service. 
an additional £46 to cover transfer fees and differences in the exchange rate, and add 8% 
simple interest on this amount to be calculated from 1 February  2019  until the date the 
payment is made
8% simple interest on the amount of £999.60. This should  be calculated  from 1 February 
2019 to 28 October 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77779472copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC lost a cheque she deposited  and hasnt credit her account  
with the funds. 
background
On 21 December  2018  Mrs W deposited a cheque for $2,000 Australian dollars  with Lloyds. The 
cheque was given to her by her father,  and the funds were  due to come from a joint account. The 
cheque got lost during the clearing process, and the funds werent credited to Mrs Ws account.
Lloyds paid Mrs W £200  compensation to recognise  the inconvenience caused, and also offered to 
refund other expenses shed incurred  contacting it about the lost cheque. But it said that it couldnt 
simply pay the value of the cheque into her account because there was no guarantee that, even if it 
had been processed correctly, it would have been paid. 
Instead it said that Mrs W would need to ask the issuer to stop the lost cheque  and provide a 
replacement, or make the payment to her by another method. It asked Mrs W to let it know when  she 
received the replacement funds so that it could make a further payment to her to compensate  her for 
not having  had access to the money sooner.
Mrs W asked  Lloyds if it could make an exception and credit her account  with the value  of the cheque 
in light of the long delays and poor service shed received  from it when trying  to resolve the situation. 
She pointed  out Lloyds had made an error  when it lost the cheque, and a further error by taking a 
copy of it that wasnt accepted  in place of the original. She explained  that the cheque had been sent 
to her by her father and that he was in very poor health and lived in a remote  area which meant it 
would be difficult for him to arrange to stop the original  cheque and send  a replacement.   
Lloyds said it felt the offer it had already made Mrs W was fair. So she brought  her complaint  to our 
service.
Sadly Mrs Ws father has since  passed  away so its not possible for him to issue another  cheque. 
Lloyds said it felt the matter of the cheque being reissued was now a family one.
Our investigator felt that the offer Lloyds had made to Mrs W was fair. They  said they didnt agree  that 
Lloyds should pay her the value of the cheque because there was a possibility the cheque  couldve 
been returned  unpaid.  And they felt that, as the funds hadnt left Mrs Ws fathers  account, there was 
no actual loss of money in this situation. The investigator agreed with Lloyds  that it was a family 
matter if the joint account holder hadnt opted  to send Mrs W a replacement  cheque.
Mrs W disagreed with this view. Whilst she said she accepts that technically the cheque couldve 
been returned  unpaid  shes  explained shes cashed many cheques  like this from her father over the 
years and theyve all been  paid without any problems. She said there has been a loss as she is 
without the funds  from the cheque. And that if Lloyds had confirmed it had lost the cheque  sooner  
there would  have been  more  opportunity  to resolve  the matter before her father  passed away. 
The complaint was referred to me. I asked our investigator to explain to Mrs W that I didnt feel I could  
automatically ask Lloyds  to pay her the value of the cheque because  our service couldnt say for 
certain at this point whether  she could still receive  that money from the joint account  holder. I asked if 
Mrs W would  be able to speak to the joint account holder about the issue and let us know if they were 
able to send her replacement funds.
The joint account holder  transferred the funds to Mrs W, and she received £999.60 on 28 October 
2019.
Ref: DRN77779473my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see Mrs W has now received her funds. But its not in dispute that Lloyds made  errors 
here. It lost Mrs Ws cheque. And it wasnt  until April 2019, over three months after shed deposited  it, 
that it confirmed a copy couldnt be accepted either - and so the funds werent  going  to be credited to 
her account.  Mrs W contacted Lloyds numerous  times during  this period.  And I appreciate  this 
mustve been  very frustrating for her.
Lloyds paid Mrs W £200  compensation for the inconvenience caused here. It also offered to cover 
any expenses she incurred contacting it about the matter. And asked her to let it know when  she 
received a replacement payment so it could  compensate her for the time she was deprived  of the 
funds. Its now told us its calculated this payment to be in the region of £59.
I know Lloyds will be disappointed, but having  considered the specific  circumstances of this case  I think it 
needs to do more  to resolve this complaint.  I appreciate it has suggested its possible  the original cheque  
wouldnt have successfully cleared. But, on balance, I think  its more likely  than not that it would have.  Mrs 
W has told us that shes cashed various cheques from her father before and not experienced any 
problems. And I can see the funds were  available  for the joint account holder to send to her promptly when 
she raised the matter  with them.
Mrs W has explained  how reluctant she was to approach the joint account holder and ask them for the 
funds in light of her fathers recent passing. And I appreciate this mustve been a very difficult  thing for 
her do in a very sensitive situation. I also note that she wouldnt have been in the position  of needing 
to do this if Lloyds hadnt lost her cheque. So I think Lloyds should  recognise the further trouble  and 
upset Mrs W experienced here with an additional £100 compensation, to be paid in addition to the 
£200 it has previously paid her.
We asked  Mrs W if she was able to evidence any other expenses she mightve incurred as a result of 
the issues  with her cheque. But shes told us she doesnt have any written or monetary evidence of 
these. Whilst  I appreciate she made a lot of telephone calls to Lloyds, some from abroad - I dont think 
I can fairly ask Lloyds to consider reimbursement of the cost of these  calls in the absence of any 
evidence of these costs. And I note its already paid £200 compensation, in part to cover the 
inconvenience these  calls caused.
Mrs W has made reference  to differences in exchange rates between  December 2018 and October 
2019. Shes also questioned whether any fees were applied to the credit  transfer she has now 
received from the joint account holder. 
Ive looked at the information Mrs W received  from Lloyds when  she deposited her cheque. This 
states that processing  time can take typically 3-6 weeks. I cant  be certain exactly  when Mrs W 
would have received the funds from the cheque had it not been lost by Lloyds. But based on this 
information I think  its likely the latest she would have received them  by is 1 February  2019, six weeks  
after the cheque  was deposited.
Lloyds has explained the payment Mrs W received on 28 October 2019 was sent in Sterling.  So it isnt 
able to see the exchange  rate the foreign bank applied.  However it has provided  some generic 
information about exchange  rates applicable  on 1 February 2019 and 28 October  2019,  and has 
estimated that the $2,000  Australian dollars was worth around  £40 more at the earlier date. Its also 
shown us that the foreign bank took a £6 fee when making the transfer to Mrs W. 
I can see the market exchange rate at 1 February 2019 was around the average rate applicable for 
the six weeks  following the date the cheque was deposited. So I do think  its likely  that, had her 
cheque cleared successfully, Mrs W wouldve received a larger amount than she did when the bank 
transfer was made.  And she would have received this sum significantly sooner. 
Ref: DRN77779474Lloyds has proposed to pay Mrs W £59 compensation for the time she was deprived of the funds. 
This is roughly in line with the 8% simple  interest award I intend  to make here. But I think it would  also 
be fair for it to pay Mrs W an additional £46 to compensate  her for differences in exchange  rates and 
the transfer fee incurred. 
I can see Mrs W has made reference to Lloyds  accountability and procedures following  the loss of 
her cheque. And I appreciate she feels very strongly about this matter. But to clarify, this service deals 
with individual complaints.  I can only consider the impact of Lloyds actions on Mrs W here, in these  
individual circumstances. Its not my role to punish Lloyds for its mistakes. Or to make a more  general 
evaluation of its processes and procedures. And I cant ask it to make changes to these  for other 
customers. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that to put things right for Mrs W, Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Pay her a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by its poor service. 
Pay her an additional £46 to cover transfer fees and differences  in the exchange  rate, and add 8% 
simple interest on this amount to be calculated from 1 February  2019 until the date the payment  is 
made
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount of £999.60. This should be calculated from 1 February 2019 
to 28 October  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7777947