K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd ("Monzo")  didn't process  his chargeback  request as he
expected and gave poor customer service
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 February 2019   a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think Monzo had acted  unreasonably  
when it dealt with Mr Gs chargeback claim and that I didnt propose to uphold  this complaint. 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Monzo didnt reply to my provisional  decision.  Mr G also didnt add anything else on this 
decision. Mr G has since raised  another complaint with this service about  things that 
happened after Monzo considered his chargeback but weve  considered that separately.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr G nor Monzo  submitted any further  arguments for me to consider for this 
complaint. So I see no reason  to change my conclusion from that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70310772Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo)  didnt  process  his chargeback request as he 
expected and gave poor customer service.
background
On 10 September 2018 Mr G contacted Monzo about a transaction on his prepaid debit card.  He said 
hed been in a bar overseas two days earlier  and paid £53.08 for drinks  then didnt receive them. He 
wanted Monzo to process a chargeback for the transaction. Monzo asked Mr G to try and get a refund 
from the bar and sent him a template letter he could use to contact the bar. Monzo said that it could 
raise a chargeback  claim  after the bar had been  given fourteen  days to respond to his request. 
Mr G was unhappy  because he wanted Monzo to credit his account  immediately and he raised  a 
complaint on 12 September. He was also unhappy with Monzos approach to this complaint. In 
particular, he says he had delayed or no responses  to some online messages  and he had to answer 
the same questions for different Monzo agents.  Mr G was dissatisfied  with his complaint handler and 
tried to escalate his complaint to a manager but was told that nobody  was available. He felt that 
Monzos customer service was below the standard  he expected so he raised  a further complaint 
about this and requested  £75 compensation. 
Monzo partially upheld Mr Gs complaints, offering  £30 compensation  for the inconvenience of 
speaking to several  different  customer  service  agents.  Monzo didnt uphold his complaint about  the 
chargeback because it said its process was based on the terms set by the third party card scheme 
provider. It said the fourteen day period was meant to support Mr Gs chargeback  claim. Monzo  also 
didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint about his complaint handlers actions and the fact he couldnt speak to 
a manager over the phone because it said he was contacted  by its Head of Complaints  during the 
process.
Mr G referred his complaints  to our service for an independent view, requesting £250 compensation  
for both complaints. An investigator upheld  his complaint and proposed £125 compensation. Mr G 
wanted a final ombudsman decision and he still felt that £250 compensation  was appropriate.  Monzo 
also didnt accept the investigators view. As a result, Mr Gs complaint was referred  to me for a final 
ombudsman decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he thinks Monzos  approach and customer service dont compare  well to other banks and 
he says his compensation expectations are based on what  hes seen elsewhere. Its important to 
explain that that our service looks at individual complaints, so I can only base  my decision on the 
particular facts of his complaint. 
Debit card chargebacks are a voluntary service offered by the third party  card scheme provider.  The 
relevant scheme sets the terms of the chargeback and the timescales that apply.  Theres no 
obligation on a business  to raise a chargeback, but its generally good practice  for it to attempt to do 
so. 
Here, Monzo  says it asked  Mr G to contact the bar before submitting a chargeback claim to make it 
the claim likely to be successful, and says the timescales it gave were based on the card schemes 
chargeback terms.  Ive reviewed these terms and Im satisfied that Monzo  referred to them  when it 
dealt with Mr Gs request. 
Ref: DRN70310773That doesnt  mean  that Id always expect  Monzo to ask a customer to get extra information, or to try 
and resolve  the situation  themselves, like Monzo did here.  But I think  it acted  fairly given the nature of 
the individual circumstances of this situation. Its not that Monzo  wasnt prepared to help Mr G, it just 
wanted him to see if he could either resolve  the situation himself, or provide information  that would 
help when it raised the chargeback for him. So I also think the bank was acting sympathetically 
towards his situation when it sent him a template letter to send to the bar. From this Im satisfied,  on 
balance, that Monzo had Mr Gs interests in mind when it asked  for this.
Mr G wanted  Monzo  to credit his account with £53.08 immediately. Monzo  said it would credit Mr Gs 
account if a chargeback claim was raised after hed contacted  the bar. Because  Im satisfied that 
Monzo was trying to satisfy the chargeback schemes  terms when  it asked him to contact the bar, and 
theres nothing in Monzos relevant terms and conditions to suggest it would  act differently here, I 
think Monzos approach here was reasonable. I note that Monzo did eventually raise the chargeback 
for him, which was unsuccessful,  so I dont think its approach materially affected  the position here in 
any event.
Mr G was unhappy  with the time Monzo took to respond to messages  and that he couldnt  
immediately speak  to a manager over the phone. I understand that he wanted to resolve the issue 
urgently and that communicating through a chat function might have created an expectation of 
immediacy in the circumstances here. But Im satisfied that Monzo usually  responded to Mr Gs 
messages within one business day and arranged  a phone call to discuss his concerns. Monzo  also 
explained that it would  take longer to reply to messages about ongoing complaints than general 
customer service  queries.  I can also see that although Mr G wasnt able to speak to a manager at the 
time he asked  to do so, Monzos Head of Complaints was made  aware of his concerns and wrote to 
him personally. 
Taking everything into account, I think that Monzo took Mr Gs complaint seriously and dealt with it 
promptly and reasonably. I think the offer of £30 compensation  for the inconvenience Mr Gs 
experienced when he first called  the bank  is fair so, although I know Mr G will be disappointed, I wont 
be asking Monzo to do anything more here. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr G to accept  or reject my 
decision before 1 March 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7031077