K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Northern Bank Limited (Northern Bank) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage 
in 2001. The policy was in Mr Hs name  only. And it covered him if he was unable  to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. The monthly  cost of the policy  was 
£13.70 and it provided a monthly benefit of £250  in the event of a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as they didnt think  the policy was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed,  so the complaint was passed for an ombudsman  to consider and 
issue a final decision.
While the complaint was waiting  an ombudsmans  decision, in 2017, following a Supreme 
Court judgment, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued some new rules about how 
businesses should  deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
In light of the above Northern Bank  then paid back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. This was for the high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) it received and didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about. 
Northern Bank offered  compensation  of £487.90. This was made up of the excess  
commission that Mr and Mrs H was charged on the PPI premiums and additional 
compensation for them being out of pocket of this money.
Mr and Mrs H thought  this was low and were unhappy as Northern Bank hadnt explained 
how the compensation had been  worked out. Mr and Mrs H also still felt the PPI had been 
mis-sold and wanted a refund of everything  they had paid. 
One of our adjudicators asked Northern Bank for confirmation of how the commission  
compensation had been  calculated. After reviewing the information  Northern Bank  provided,  
he considered  that it had worked out the compensation fairly. 
As Mr and Mrs Hs complaint still remains unresolved it has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN78487362Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
I will look at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in two parts. 
First I will consider whether the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Second, whether Northern Banks offer of compensation for the unfair level of commission 
and profit share it received,  is fair.
the sale of the mortgage PPI policy in 2001
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the sale of the PPI policy. Ill 
explain why.
Northern Bank has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs original paperwork from when they 
took out the mortgage. 
Within the mortgage application form there  is a section for PPI. I can see that PPI has been  
selected for single  cover  only, for Mr H and with a monthly benefit  of £250. Mr and Mrs H 
have signed to confirm this choice.  
Following this Mr and Mrs H also had to complete and sign a separate  PPI application form. 
Again, this confirms  that the cover  is for Mr H only with a benefit of £250.  It also details that 
Disability & Unemployment cover was chosen and not Disability cover or Unemployment  
cover only.  
From looking  at the information provided,  I think Northern Bank made  it clear  that 
Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out to protect Mr 
H only. 
Northern Bank says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. And from the information 
Mr and Mrs H have given us about  their circumstances, it seems to have been  right for Mr H 
at the time. 
I can see that Mr H was eligible for the policy and its unlikely he would  have been  affected 
by any of the main  things  the policy didnt cover. 
Taking a mortgage  is large, long term financial commitment. And borrowers stand to lose 
their home if they dont  keep up with repayments.
 
Mr and Mrs H have told us that they didnt receive any sick pay if they were unable to work 
because of an accident or sickness. They  also didnt  have any savings or other  insurance  
policies in place  that they could have used to meet their repayments. 
Ref: DRN78487363The PPI, in the event Mr H had a successful  claim for accident, sickness or unemployment 
would have paid out for up to 12 months  per claim. Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  repayment was 
around £230. So as the monthly benefit was £250,  this meant that their mortgage repayment 
was covered and the remaining amount could be used  to cover the monthly cost of the PPI.
So, all things considered,  I think the cover could have  provided a useful benefit and I cant 
say that the advisers recommendation was unsuitable.
Im not sure that Mr and Mrs H was given all of the information about the PPI policy  at the 
time it was taken out, for example I cant be sure how clearly  the cost and benefit were 
explained. But I think they chose to take out the policy to protect Mr H so it appears that they 
wanted this type of cover. The policy was suitable for Mr H and I dont think  theres anything 
in the information they didnt have that would have put them off taking out the cover  for Mr H. 
So I think that they would have taken  it for Mr H if they had all of the right information.
I note, from reviewing Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that they say that when  they took out a later 
loan to settle a cash  reserve  account  (which is a revolving credit  facility) which  had PPI, they 
were told that the PPI on their mortgage account was enough to cover the mortgage and the 
cash reserve account. I disagree. I cant know for sure what  they were  told, but from looking 
at everything,  the PPI sold alongside the mortgage provided a benefit that was just enough  
to protect  the mortgage repayments.  And the PPI sold alongside  the cash reserve  account 
was designed  to protect the repayments towards that account. 
Overall, I dont  think Northern Bank  mis-sold Mr and Mrs H PPI in 2001  alongside  their 
mortgage.
what has Northern Bank  offered?
Following the FCA issuing some new rules  about how businesses  should deal with 
complaints about  PPI, Northern Bank  has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. And this is because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Northern Bank 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know that, after receiving Northern Banks offer of compensation, Mr and Mrs H felt the 
amount was low. And they were  unsure how Northern Bank had worked  it out.
I agree  that Northern  Banks letter isnt the clearest  and only tells Mr and Mrs H the 
amount that it will be paying  them. But having  now reviewed what Northern Bank  has 
offered, I would like to assure Mr and Mrs H that it has been worked out correctly.  
Ref: DRN78487364Northern Bank worked out the commission offer by looking at the PPI premium 
Mr and Mrs H were charged  each month  and working out what the commission and profit 
share rate was on each premium. And if Mr and Mrs H paid anything  above  50% in 
commission or profit share, Northern Bank has refunded this back. And Northern Bank has 
added 8% simple interest (per year) on any amounts that Mr and Mrs H overpaid,  as 
compensation for them being out of pocket of that money.
Having looked  at its offer, it includes everything  I would expect to see. 
I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont  be telling 
Northern Bank to do anything more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, the mortgage PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank 
Limited does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
For the reasons  above I think Northern Bank Limited has correctly  worked  out what it needs 
to pay Mr and Mrs H. 
Northern Bank Limited should update and pay its offer to Mr and Mrs H if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7848736