K820x#14complaint
Mr A says hes unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLCs  process  for international money 
transfers from his bank account, and that he frequently has problems with them.
background
Mr A complained to Barclays  at the beginning of 2019, explaining that whilst  he seemed able 
to complete international transfers to another country, he was having difficulties with 
payments to a particular  country in the EU. He said payments were being made late or not at 
all.
Barclays sent Mr A three final response  letters in relation to this in February  2019.
In the first of those,  Barclays  identified there  was an error on its part in relation to a transfer 
of £20. It said it was sorry, and credited Mr As account with £50 compensation.
In the second,  Barclays  explained that when converting the currency  and then transferring to 
the country in question  the payment will only be instructed on the same  day, if its submitted 
by Mr A before 10.45am. And that some of the difficulties Mr A had were due to his payment 
not being submitted until after that time. Barclays apologised if this hadnt been made clear 
before, and provided the website address for further details on international payments. 
Barclays said it felt the compensation payment of £50 made before was still sufficient  in the 
circumstances.
In its third final response, Barclays addressed  a phone  call Mr A had with it. It identified that 
hed attempted  to transfer £12 before the cut off time. And whilst the money  hadnt  shown  as 
leaving his account  straight away, it would do so the same  day. Barclays  agreed that the 
phone call couldve been  handled better  and saw that an adviser had already  credited £25 to 
his account due to that. Barclays added that it felt a further £50 compensation would  be 
reasonable.
Mr A complained again to Barclays in May 2019,  saying he continues to have  difficulties. 
Barclays sent Mr A another two final response  letters that month. It said some payments had 
gone through as they should, but another hadnt  as there wasnt  enough money in Mr As 
account. It also made another two £50 compensation payments to Mr A.
Mr A isnt happy with this and says he continues to have  problems. Hes also unhappy with 
the way Barclays  has treated  and spoken  to him as a long-standing customer.
An investigator here looked into Mr As concerns. They agreed that Barclays couldve 
provided a better service, but felt that the compensation paid had been fair.
Mr A said hes found that if he does  transfers early in the morning they go through  as 
expected. But Mr A didnt  feel the level of compensation was sufficient, given the difficulties 
he said Barclays delays and failures had caused him in the country  he was trying to send 
money to. He also said that he continues to have difficulties and pointed  out that in one of 
the final response letters a cut off time of 4.00pm was given. 
Ref: DRN76164692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr As complaint, Ill explain why.
Barclays accepted  there  was an error  relating to a £20 transfer  in January 2019. It said an 
adviser had overlooked Mr As overdraft limit and the payment had been  incorrectly  declined.  
Barclays apologised for this and paid Mr A £50 compensation.  Barclays  then told Mr A about 
the cut off time for the type of transfer  he was making. Ive checked  this against its website, 
which confirms the same, so Im satisfied the information given to Mr A at this point was 
correct. Barclays also provided  Mr A with its website  address where  he could find out more  
about international transfers. 
I think that, along with the payments of some compensation, was an appropriate response 
and attempt to resolve Mr As complaint,  because  it was giving  him the information  he 
needed to know.  I also note Mr A said he felt things had improved, once hed been told 
about the cut off times. And successful payments had been  identified in May 2019, which  
supports that.
I can understand how confusion can arise  though,  and note that Mr A has been given 
different cut off times by Barclays. Having looked at the matter I can see that different times 
do apply, depending on the type of transfer and the currency. Im not sure what the 4.00pm 
time in one of Barclays letters refers to, but as its directed Mr A to the detailed information 
page on its website,  I think its given him the help he needed.
I also appreciate Mr A says he continued  to have difficulties with transfers, even after being  
given more information. But Barclays has told us there have been occasions when Mr A 
didnt have enough money  in his account  to complete the payment.  Ive not seen all of
Mr As bank  statements  but I cant see that hes questioned this. And he hasnt given us any 
of the more detailed information weve asked him for about the impact of payments not going  
through, so even  if he had enough money  in his account I couldnt say hed lost out.
Turning to the debt issues  Mr A says hes having,  he provided an email which  he says 
shows debt problems in the country hes been transferring money to. But I dont  think the 
email he sent to us shows any specific link between the transfers and the debt,  it just 
suggests a debt exists in the country  concerned.  This means he hasnt provided anything to 
show hes lost out financially, due to the transfers not always  being completed  as quickly  as 
he expected. Because  of this, I dont  think theres  anything more I can expect Barclays to do 
here.
With regard to the service, Ive listened to a number of calls Mr As had with Barclays, 
because he said hes unhappy with the way hes been spoken to. In one of the calls he 
mentioned that hed been calling from abroad  and sometimes got cut off, so Barclays  offered 
to call him back because  of the cost of the calls, or to call him when he had better  reception.  
Mr A declined this offer.
I think Barclays was treating him fairly  here and showed a willingness to help him in that and 
other calls.  Overall, I believe Barclays has been  polite  when speaking to Mr A, letting him 
speak when he wanted to. I appreciate he didnt always  like what  Barclays  told him, but I 
dont consider it to have  been unprofessional.
Ref: DRN76164693In summary,  its not in dispute that Mr A has had some problems with his transfers and that 
Barclays has made some mistakes. Both Mr A and Barclays have  said successful payments 
have been made more  recently. Although Mr A says he continues  to have problems with 
some transfers, he has said he doesnt  want to give us details of these and has asked us to 
work with what we have.  Barclays has told him where he can find the information he needs 
about cut-off times for these payments and, in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that it has 
paid him fair compensation, which  totalled £225.  
 
Mr A also recently told us Barclays is closing his accounts. That isnt something Ive 
considered as part of this complaint, so if thats  something hes unhappy with hed have to 
contact Barclays about it separately. We may then be able to consider it as a fresh  complaint 
later.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7616469