K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains (on behalf of himself and Mrs B) that British  Gas Insurance  Limited is 
responsible for poor service in connection with a home emergency  insurance policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers, call-handlers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mr and Mrs B had a British Gas HomeCare  policy  to cover their central  heating  for an annual 
service and repairs. The policy also covered repairs to their plumbing and drainage.
In November 2018 British Gas did an annual  service. It also replaced the room thermostat 
for the central heating - twice. Mr B complained that the replacement  thermostat still didnt 
work properly.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that, in the 
absence of any independent evidence to show  that the thermostat fitted  by British Gas is 
faulty or unsuitable  for the heating system, he couldnt say British  Gas had done anything  
wrong.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that he pays British Gas and it shouldn't  be fitting the 
cheapest parts possible. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said that British Gas replaced  his thermostat about five years  ago. From  its work  
history I can see that a British Gas engineer  made a note in December 2014 as follows:
REPORTED PROBS WITH CLOCK/OK AT TIME/REPL  CLOCK/REPL BROKEN  
DIAL ROOMSTAT
From what  Mr B has told us and from that note, I find that British  Gas had replaced the 
thermostat in December  2014.
From a renewal letter, I can see that Mr and Mrs Bs policy  renewed on 11 January  2017. 
From its work history  I can see that British Gas did an annual service  on 11 December 2017.
From the renewal letter I can see that the policy renewed again on 11 January  2018.
The policy terms included the following:
Spare parts
Well provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same  
features or an identical make and model  or type of fitting. For example, we may 
replace a specific  design of tap with a standard  one from our range or replace 
Ref: DRN72776172electrical fittings with our nearest  white,  brass or chrome version.  Or you can give the 
engineer a replacement part that youve bought yourself, that we approve
So I consider that British  Gas might reasonably replace a part  such as a room thermostat  
with one with similar functionality.
Mr B has said there was nothing wrong with his room thermostat before British Gas visited  in 
November 2018.
However, British Gas has provided a file note that records that Mr B was in contact on 21 
November 2018  about getting  an annual service before the anniversary of the last one. The 
file note includes the following:
 there was a fault with his rads as well
British Gas did the annual service on 28 November  2018. Its engineers records include the 
following:
CUTTING OUT and
replaced room stat
So I accept  that Mr B had mentioned a problem  with radiators and British Gas found that 
there was a fault with the room thermostat. Im satisfied thats why the British Gas engineer  
replaced the thermostat  on 28 November 2018.
I accept that Mr Bs experience was that  compared to the old thermostat  he had to set 
the replacement  thermostat at a higher temperature setting to achieve his desired level of 
heating.
A different British Gas engineer visited the next day. He replaced the thermostat again. But 
Mr B still didnt  think the thermostat was working properly.
Another different  British  Gas engineer visited a few days  later. After that, British Gas   
maintained that the thermostat was working correctly. 
The central issue is whether the replacement thermostat was of reasonable quality and fit for 
purpose. 
Mr B hasnt provided any opinion on that issue from an independent engineer.  So I have 
weighed up Mr Bs opinion against  the opinion of the British Gas engineers. As they are 
qualified and experienced,  I place  more weight on what  the British  Gas engineers have  said. 
Im not persuaded that there was anything  wrong  with the replacement thermostat after 29 
November 2018.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British  Gas to replace the thermostat 
again.
A British Gas service  and repair  manager upset Mr B on the telephone. And a complaints-
handler didnt  communicate with Mr B when she shouldve done.  British Gas acknowledged  
those shortcomings  in its final response  on 21 December 2018. 
Ref: DRN72776173Mr B was further upset  by that letter. I consider that it couldve been  more succinct. But I 
dont find it an unreasonable response. British  Gas apologised  for the shortcomings  Ive 
mentioned. It also offered  that if Mr B bought  a new thermostat, British Gas would install  it. 
Mr B didnt take up that offer.
I keep in mind its apology and its offer. Overall I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct 
British Gas  in addition  to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs B for distress and 
inconvenience or to do anything more  in response to this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7277617