K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BofS, trading as Leeds Permanent  Building
Society) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional thoughts on this complaint in November. In that I said I thought Bank 
of Scotland plc should pay Ms T some compensation for increasing both the cover and cost 
of her PPI policy without getting  her informed consent. A copy  of my provisional findings  is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland said it would compensate Ms T as I suggested. Ms T hasnt provided any 
new information or comment.  I see no reason  to change  my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Bank of Scotland  plc to:
 Pay Ms T the amount she paid each month for that PPI
 Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BofS can take off what  she got for
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 If BofS has already  refunded some  of the commission Ms T paid (as it offered to do) then
it can deduct any commission refund relating to the 1992 policy from the payment.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BofS to take off tax from this interest. BofS  must  give
Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76610512copy of provisional decision November 2019
complaint
Ms T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BofS, trading as Leeds Permanent  Building
Society) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about  a mortgage PPI policy taken  out in mid 1991.  The policy was taken
out in one of the banks branches  when  Ms T was applying for a mortgage. The policy
provided Ms T with cover  for accident and sickness only, and cost £6 a month.  It would pay
about £400 if Ms T made a successful claim.
In April 1992  the cost of the policy  increased  to £24 a month, and unemployment cover was
added.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Ms Ts case.
Where the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely  to have happened
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Im intending  to uphold Ms Ts complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to explain  that weve been referring to Bank of Scotland during  this complaint
because its responsible  for handling complaints about how this PPI was sold.  But I can
assure Ms T that Ive looked (as did our adjudicator)  at how Leeds Permanent Building
Society sold PPI when  reaching my decision.
I think  this complaint falls into two parts  what happened in 1991 and then what happened
in 1992.
the 1991  sale
Ms T says she was told she had to buy the PPI in order to get the mortgage she wanted.
I cant  be sure what was discussed between her and the bank, but I see the mortgage
application form didnt  mention PPI  and theres nothing on the paperwork that suggests
she had to have the PPI. Ms T did have  to buy building insurance, though,  as a condition  of
the mortgage, and that is on the paperwork. It would  be understandable if this is what  Ms T
recalls, given it was so long ago.
The policy was set up to provide cover if Ms T had an accident or illness  which meant she
couldnt work. It didnt provide any cover if Ms T was made redundant. So it looks as though
Ms T was making choices about what cover to buy, and wasnt made  to buy more  cover than
was appropriate.
On balance, despite what Ms T remembers, I think at this point the bank made her aware
Ref: DRN76610513that PPI was optional and she chose to take it out.
The bank says it advised Ms T to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable
for her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. I say this because:
- Ms T was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
- Ms T says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work due
to a sickness or accident.  And she had a small amount of savings too. But the policy
would have paid out in addition  to the occupational  benefits  and would do so, it seems,
for longer.  Having the policy in place  would mean Ms T could use her work-related
benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. I think Ms T would have had some use
for the policy despite  her existing  arrangements.
- Ms T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits,  such as
those affecting people with pre-existing medical  conditions. As she could have benefited
from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Ms T needed better advice or
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I dont know when Ms T was told the cost of the PPI application   it might  have been in
the meeting. But I can see BofS wrote to her shortly afterwards to confirm the policy was
set up and the monthly cost.  It was about a week before the mortgage money  was paid
out. I think Ms T would  have been aware how much she would be paying  for the policy
and Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit  was insufficient to
meet her monthly  mortgage  repayments.
Its possible the information the bank gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of
cover. As Ive already said Ms T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and
the policy  seems to have been affordable,  I think it unlikely Ms T would have made  a
different decision if better information  had been provided   overall, I think she would still
have taken out the policy.
BofS didnt tell Ms T about a high level of commission it was going to receive.  But its now
offered to refund  Ms T some of the commission she paid on this policy. Thats what wed
expect BofS to do in these circumstances.
Im not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
the 1992  alteration
In April 1992  the cost of the policy  increased  substantially   to four times the original
amount. BofS says this is because it changed underwriters (the insurance company that
would pay any claim Ms T might make). It says it wrote to Ms T and explained that the new
underwriter only provided PPI cover for accident, sickness and unemployment and that her
PPI would  be automatically transferred to the new insurer. BofS says it also told Ms T the
cost would  increase to £24 a month and thats what then happened.
BofS cant give us a copy of the letter because of the length of time that has passed.
I think  this was a substantial change to the policy Ms T originally  bought, and BofS should
have treated it as a new sale. So it should  have  at the least  given  Ms T enough
information to decide if she wanted the new, extended  PPI and given her a fair choice
whether to take it or not. It should have also got Ms Ts consent  usually  a signed
acceptance  to show  she understood this and wanted the extended PPI.
From what BofS  has told us I dont  think that happened. Theres  been no suggestion that
BofS obtained Ms Ts consent at the time. Instead  it appears she was told it was an
Ref: DRN76610514automatic transfer, so Ms T would have had to opt-out  of the new policy. That means  shed
have had to tell BofS she didnt want the new policy  rather than make a positive choice  to
take it.
Ive also taken  into account that Ms T had chosen  to buy only accident and sickness cover
less than a year earlier. Its unlikely Ms Ts circumstances  had changed significantly in the
intervening months,  and I dont currently think Ms T would  have thought the new PPI was
right for her if shed been  given a clear choice and better information.
what should happen next
I think  BofS should put Ms T in the position shed  have been  in if shed not been transferred
onto the new policy in April 1992. The mortgage  and policy ended some  time ago  Ive seen
a letter  from Ms T to BofS (or Leeds  PBS as it was) cancelling the PPI in late 1992. Im
intending to ask BofS to:
 Pay Ms T the amount  she paid each month for that PPI
 Add simple  interest  to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 If Ms T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, BofS can take off what she got for
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 If BofS has already  refunded some of the commission Ms T paid (as it offered  to do) then
it can deduct  any commission refund relating to the 1992 policy from the payment.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires BofS to take off tax from this interest.  BofS must  give
Ms T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint in part and to order Bank of Scotland  plc to
compensate Ms T as outlined  above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7661051