K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold  a motor trade policy by Peacock Insurance  Services  
Limited (Peacock).
background
Mr G took out a motor  trade insurance policy  through Peacock  a broker   in July 2017. 
He took the policy out on the telephone.
In November 2017 Peacock contacted Mr G to query why he had added,  removed and then 
re-added a car onto his policy. Mr G queried  this as he said hed discussed  this with the 
sales person when he first applied  for the policy. And he says the sales person  advised that, 
while the policy was limited to 10 cars, he could swap cars around on the policy when he 
needed to.
In December 2017 Peacock contacted Mr G and acknowledged that he was given incorrect 
information when  he first took out the policy. But it explained  that it wasnt able to increase 
the vehicle limit. Mr G later asked how much  refund he would receive  if he cancelled the 
policy and Peacock explained  that hed get a refund of around  £600. Mr G said that he didnt 
think this was right.
In January 2018 Mr G complained that he thought  Peacock had mis-sold him the policy. And 
he said that he wanted Peacock to cancel the policy and give him a full refund.  He said that 
the call handler  didnt do a full fact find to understand  what needs Mr G had. He also says 
that he had raised  a formal complaint in November 2017, but he hadnt  received a response 
to that. Finally, he asked  Peacock to provide  a transcript of the telephone call that he had 
when he first took out the policy.
Peacock responded to say that it had explained to Mr G in the inception  call that the vehicle 
limit on the policy  was 10. And it said that Mr G didnt query this until November 2017. But it 
said that Mr G could  cancel the policy and it would  ask that the insurer consider a pro-rata  
cancellation charge. It also sent him a copy of the call recordings it had for the inception  
calls. Mr G remained unhappy and asked this service to step in.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought that Peacock had mis-sold the policy. So 
she thought that it should  do the following to resolve  this complaint:
1.Allow Mr G to cancel  the policy and not charge any fees to do so;
2.Ensure that hes only charged a premium on a pro-rata basis; and
3.Pay Mr G £100 for the distress  and inconvenience this matter  had caused  him.
Peacock accepted the investigators  opinion and paid Mr G £100  in compensation. And it 
wrote to Mr G to ask him to let it know if he wanted to cancel  the policy.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  opinion. He said that when hed asked to cancel the 
policy hed asked for a full refund.  He also said that he asked to cancel the policy  in 
November 2017  but he says that Peacock asked that he request this in writing. And he 
thinks it should at least backdate the premium refund  to then.
Ref: DRN78595892Mr G also said that hed had one of his vehicles  stolen  in February 2018, but he said that it 
wasnt insured because of the issues hed had. Finally he said that hed had to sell some of 
his cars quickly at a discount.
Our investigator still thought that his original assessment was fair. She said that she didnt 
doubt what Mr G had told her, but she said that the first reference  shed seen  when Mr G 
discussed cancelling the policy was in December 2017 when he asked for a cancellation 
quote. And she said that he then emailed Peacock in January 2018  asking to cancel the 
policy. But she said that Mr G had continued to use the policy. So she didnt think Peacock 
needed to refund the premium paid any further  that what  she previously recommended.
The investigator also said that she hadnt  seen  anything  to show that the financial losses 
Mr G had referred to were a direct  result of the policy being mis-sold. She acknowledged 
Mr G had had a car stolen  that wasnt insured. But she said that it was a legal requirement to 
insure the car. So she didnt think that Peacock was required  to compensate  him for this.
Mr G still didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. And he raised the following  points  that he wanted the ombudsman to consider:
1.He was given  mis-leading  information when he first took out the policy.  And he says that 
the manager he spoke to in November 2017  had confirmed that he was given wrong  
advice. And he said that this was confirmed in an email. 
2.He raised a complaint in the call with the manager, but he says that Peacock didnt 
review the complaint  until it emailed him in January 2018 acknowledging  the complaint. 
He says that in its response to Mr Gs complaint it disputed  that hed been given 
misleading information.
3.He said that Peacock  had said that the initial telephone call isnt available. But he thinks 
the manager he spoke to in November 2017  was able to listen  to the call.
4.He maintains that Peacock should  be required to refund  the premium  from when he first 
asked it to.
5.He said that he wasnt able to get alternative cover because  he still had an active 
insurance policy.
6.He referred to the Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (updated 2014) where he says that 
he can cancel the contract and get a refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the investigator for the same reasons.
Mr G has raised  a number of points he wants me to take into account. Ive considered  
everything hes raised but Ive not commented  on every point hes raised. In this decision,  
Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues Mr G has raised. No discourtesy is meant by 
this, but simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
The call recording for when Mr G first applied for the policy  isnt available,  so I cant  listen to 
what was said. But Peacock has spoken with the sales person  and hes confirmed that he 
told Mr G that he could  add and remove cars when he wants. So theres no dispute that 
Mr G was given false information  when he first applied for the policy.  The issue I have to 
decide is to what  extent Peacock needs  to compensate him for this.
Ref: DRN78595893Ive taken particular  note of the telephone  call that Mr G had with Peacock on 11 December 
2017. And in this call one of Peacocks managers  said that he accepts that the call handler 
had given Mr G incorrect information. And he said that he would put a note on the file. Mr G 
queried whether  this meant he could add and remove cars and the manager said that he 
could. But he also advised  Mr G that any car that wasnt on the policy wasnt insured. 
So Im satisfied that it took reasonable steps  to correct this and it allowed Mr G to continue  in 
the way that he wanted to. And I havent seen anything to show that he has lost out as a 
result of the incorrect information he was given. I note Mr G says that he had to sell some  
cars at a discount  to comply with this. But he hasnt given us anything to support this. 
However, even if this was the case, Peacock did say that he could add and remove cars if 
he wanted to do so. So it was Mr Gs choice to sell the cars. And I dont  think I can say that it 
was down to anything Peacock did wrong.
Ive taken Mr Gs comments  into account that he says he asked to cancel  the policy in 
November 2017,  but I havent seen anything to support that. And I dont think Mr G has 
given us anything  to show that he did ask to cancel the policy  before January 2018.  I can 
see that he emailed Peacock on 8 January 2018 asking to cancel the policy.  But Im also 
conscious that he said he wanted a full refund of the premium hed paid. I think it was fair for 
Peacock to assume  that the cancellation  request was conditional on him getting  a full refund 
of the premium, which he wasnt entitled  to. So I dont think it was unreasonable  that it didnt 
cancel the policy at this point.
I can see that Peacock  said to Mr G that he could cancel the policy and it would ask the 
insurer to give a pro-rata refund. So it was open  to Mr G to cancel at this point. But he didnt 
do so.
Ive considered his reference to the Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. But, while  I 
acknowledge the policy was mis-sold, Mr G did have use of the policy and I think  its fair that 
hes required  to pay for it. 
However, despite my comments  above,  I do accept that Mr G would have suffered some 
distress and inconvenience as a result  of the misleading information  although  I also think  
Peacock looked  to put things right. He did have  to make a number of telephone calls with 
Peacock to discuss this situation, which he wouldnt have  had to do had he not been  given 
misleading information at the outset. So I think Peacock should compensate  Mr G for this. 
The investigator recommended  that it pay £100 in compensation and I think  that is in line 
with what I would have  recommended.  So I think its fair.
Finally, Ive taken into account  Mr Gs comment that one of his cars was stolen while 
uninsured. But I also have to take into account  that he was advised in December 2017 that 
cars not added to the policy wouldnt be insured. And I dont think hes found himself  in the 
situation he did because  of the misleading information. So I dont think Peacock needs  to 
compensate him for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I partially  uphold  this complaint 
and I require Peacock  Insurance  Services Limited  to pay Mr G £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused if it hasnt  already done so. I make  no further award.
Ref: DRN78595894Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7859589