K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms P bought the policy  in connection with a credit  card that she took out some time between 
1995 and 2000. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether  the PPI was added  to the account at the
same time as Ms P applied  for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms P applied for her card some time between 1995 and 2000 and its possible that she 
bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know  for sure if this is the case. Ive not 
seen anything  to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think  its most likely 
Ms P bought the PPI at the same  time as applying for her credit card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made  Ms P aware the PPI was optional and she chose to take 
it. I say this because from what we know about  Lloyds sales  processes between  1995 
and 2000, Ms P wouldve  had to actively select the PPI during the credit  card application 
process. So I think she wouldve  known  she had a choice about buying the PPI. 
Lloyds accepts  that it probably recommended the PPI to Ms P, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Ms P 
has told me she didnt have any other means to cover  her credit  card repayments if she 
was off work sick, so I think  the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit for her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Ms P would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy  didnt  cover. And the policy was competitively  priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information  wouldve  stopped her buying it.
Ive noted everything  Ms P has said about her employment status  when she bought  the 
policy. In her original complaint to Lloyds and submissions to this service she said she was 
self-employed. The adjudicator explained  that it wasnt  any more  difficult  for a self-employed  
person to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy than it would be for 
someone who was employed.
Ref: DRN70683672Following the adjudicators view, Ms P told us that rather than being self-employed she 
worked on a temporary  basis for one employer and was offered work week  by week.
Ms P hasnt been  able to provide any evidence to support what  shes  told me about the 
temporary basis on which she says she was working. Given  that her testimony has changed  
since she first complained, I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable for me to accept what  
she says in the absence of further  evidence.
So this point  doesnt affect my overall  conclusions about the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7068367