K821x#15complaint
Mr Q complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Uncle Buck  gave Mr Q 11 loans between February 2014 and November 2015. Loans  one to 
nine were payday loans. The final two loans  were instalment loans, repayable in three 
broadly equal  payments. Mr Q has repaid all the loans he took with Uncle Buck  but the date 
of the repayment  of the final loan isnt clear to me. A summary of Mr Qs lending  from Uncle  
Buck is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
1 7 February 2014 250 28 February 2014
2 14 May 2014 600 26 May 2014
3 23 June 2014 350 23 July 2015
4 4 September 2014 600 25 September 2014
5 6 October 2014 600 24 October 2014
6 31 October 2014 675 25 November 2014
7 5 December 2014 675 24 December 2014
8 12 January 2015  450 23 January 2015
9 12 February 2015 700 25 February 2015
10 9 July 2015 850 24 July 2015
11 16 November 2015 300
Mr Q says that he couldnt afford to repay the loans. He wants a refund of interest  and 
charges.
In response to Mr Qs complaint, Uncle Buck offered  to refund interest and charges, plus 
interest in relation to loans seven to nine. It said that those loans were taken out in quick  
succession and it ought to have  been aware  that Mr Q was becoming  reliant  on its loans. 
Uncle Buck  said that it should have looked further  into Mr Qs finances at this stage.  Mr Q 
didnt accept Uncle Bucks offer. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Qs complaint. He said that Uncle  Buck should have 
done more before loan two onwards but as Mr Q hadnt provided us with the information 
wed asked for, he couldnt  say that Uncle Buck shouldnt have lent to Mr Q. But the 
adjudicator said that by loan five, the overall pattern of borrowing suggested that Mr Q had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans.  So, he said that Uncle  Buck shouldnt have 
given Mr Q loans five to 11. The adjudicator set out what  Uncle  Buck should do to put 
matters right. 
Ref: DRN78204122Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said,  in summary:
It didnt agree that repeat lending  means that the loan is unaffordable  and asked for 
evidence to support  that conclusion. 
The amounts  Mr Q borrowed  didnt  always increase. 
It asked Mr Q about his income and expenditure and carried  out credit searches and 
it appeared that he could afford  to repay  the loans.  
There was a significant gap in borrowing before loan ten. 
It agreed a repayment plan in relation to the final loan.
There was no reason to carry out further  checks. 
Repeat lending  doesnt mean the repayment  is unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator reassessed Mr Qs complaint. He said that hed now seen Mr Qs bank 
statements for the period of loans one to four but that hadnt changed his view. Based on 
what hed seen, he remained of the view that Uncle Buck wasnt wrong to give Mr Q loans 
one to four.  
As Mr Qs complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it was passed to me, an ombudsman,  
to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr Q 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN78204123I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr Q could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance  and later 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
Ive looked at what Uncle Buck has said about the gap in lending between  loans nine and 
ten. Ive given this careful thought. I dont think the gap of around four and a half months  
between loans nine and ten was sufficient to enable Uncle  Buck to treat Mr Q as a new 
customer. When Mr Q repaid loan nine hed been borrowing from Uncle  Buck for over a 
year. And when  he came back to borrow again  I havent seen anything from either party  that 
suggests Mr Qs situation  had improved in the intervening time. Ive also looked at the other 
gaps in Mr Qs lending  with Uncle Buck.  Im satisfied that theres one chain of lending here. 
I note that Uncle Buck  has made  an offer in relation to loans seven, eight  and nine. I dont 
think that offer goes  far enough and Ill explain why.
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  was wrong  to give Mr Q loans one, two and three.  Given  the  
loan amounts, what was apparent about  Mr Qs circumstances  at the time and his history 
with Uncle  Buck at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Uncle Buck to 
ask Mr Q for the amount of information  needed  to show the lending was unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information Mr Q provided or the information Uncle  Buck  
should have been aware of, which meant it would have  been  proportionate to start verifying 
what Mr Q said about his financial  position.  
I think that before loan four, proportionate checks are likely to have established a much  fuller 
picture of Mr Qs financial position. Thats because of the frequency of the borrowing. I think 
proportionate checks here wouldve meant that Uncle  Buck took steps  to verify the 
information Mr Q provided  about  his financial  situation. Uncle Buck  didnt do that, so I dont 
think that it carried out proportionate  checks before loan four. 
As Uncle Buck doesnt appear to have carried out proportionate  and sufficient checks, I cant  
say for sure what it would  have found  out had it done so. Mr Q has provided us with 
evidence of his financial circumstances at the relevant time. So Ive been  able to get a 
picture of what his financial circumstances were  like. Of course,  I accept that this isnt 
perfect, as different  checks show different things. But, based on what  Ive seen,  I cant  say 
that proportionate checks would have  shown that Uncle  Buck shouldnt have given Mr Q 
loan four. 
Ref: DRN78204124Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Qs lending history  with Uncle Buck  to see if 
there was a point  at which Uncle  Buck  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful and therefore realised that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Qs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
five. By loan five, Mr Qs overall pattern of borrowing suggested  that he had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans. Mr Q had been borrowing from Uncle Buck  without a 
significant break for around eight months. Mr Q wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount he owed Uncle Buck. In my view, the pattern of lending,  in itself, shows that the 
loans from loan five were unsustainable. 
Whilst the amount  of the loans fluctuated, Mr Qs borrowing didnt decrease significantly until 
loans 8 and 11 and, even then, loans  8 and 11 were for more  than Mr Q had borrowed 
initially. Loan 11 was taken out around  one year and nine months  after Mr Qs first loan with 
Uncle Buck.  Mr Q had paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service an intermittent  debt 
to Uncle  Buck over an extended period.
I dont think that Uncle  Buck  should  have given Mr Q loans five to 11. I think  that Mr Q lost 
out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan five onwards because 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Qs indebtedness by allowing  him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. And the sheer 
number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Qs ability to access  
mainstream credit and so potentially kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Qs complaint about  loans  five to 11. Uncle  Buck should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr Q paid on loans five to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans five to 11 should be removed from 
Mr Qs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN78204125my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Qs complaint  in part. Uncle Buck  Finance  
LLP should take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7820412