K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse  Limited,  under which a 
car was supplied to her, was mis-sold to her.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs C under a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in 
August 2018.  The car was about  five years old, had been driven for more than 22,000 miles 
and its price was £14,728. Mrs C paid a deposit  of £100. The agreement was for 60 months, 
had an interest rate of 10.9% APR and the monthly payment was £313.62. Mrs C said that 
she was expecting the interest  rate to be 4.5%,  that she wasnt  given the documentation  and 
only signed the order form for the car. She complained  to Black Horse and it said that the 
dealer had agreed to cancel the GAP insurance policy  and to refund the £249  that shed 
paid for a care package. Mrs C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  believe 
that the APR was misrepresented to Mrs C or that Black Horse needed to do any more. 
Mrs C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that:
shed like to know what three questions were asked to verify that she signed the 
agreement as she didnt sign it;
shes not received  the goodwill payment;
its been accepted that the signature  looks nothing  like her actual signature;
shes asked for CCTV footage to be viewed as it would show that she wasnt asked  
questions before supposedly  signing the agreement; 
if shed been  aware  of the APR on the agreement she wouldve  got a loan to pay for 
the car; and
she feels that shes been ripped off.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C and the dealer  give very different accounts  of what happened  before the car was 
supplied to Mrs C. She says that she didnt sign the agreement and that shed been told that 
the interest rate would be 4.5%. But shes not been able to provide  any other evidence to 
show that an interest rate of 4.5% had been discussed with her or offered to her.
Black Horse  and the dealer say that an interest  rate of 4.5%  wasnt  available  to Mrs C and 
wasnt offered to her. Black Horse  says that lowest interest  rate that its able to offer is 6.9%  
but that rate wasnt available to Mrs C and her application for credit was approved  with an 
interest rate of 10.9%.  It says that it provided the agreement, a pre-contractual  explanation 
document and pre-contract credit  information, all of which showed the interest rate as being 
10.9% and a monthly payment of £313.62.
Black Horse  says that Mrs C signed  the agreement electronically and that during the 
application process she answered  three  personal questions  relating to her - the answers of 
which were inputted into the system  so it could  agree to the finance  agreement.  It hasnt said 
Ref: DRN77665492what questions Mrs C was asked but its account notes show  that the signature process took 
place between 17.11 and 17.31  on the day that the car was supplied  to Mrs C, that the 
agreement was then checked and approved before being signed by the dealer at 17.34. 
I dont consider it to be likely that any CCTV footage  from August 2018 would still be 
available or would show conclusively whether or not Mrs C signed the agreement.  But the 
car was supplied to her and the only documents that Ive seen about  the credit  show that the 
interest rate was 10.9%  and that the monthly payment was £313.62. And I consider it to be 
more likely than not in these circumstances that Mrs C electronically signed the hire 
purchase agreement  and in doing so accepted an interest rate of 10.9%. Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that the agreement was mis-sold to her.
Black Horse  said that the dealer  had agreed to cancel the GAP insurance policy and to 
refund the £249 that Mrs C had paid for a care package. And in its final response  letter  to 
her in October 2018 it said that she should  contact it on the phone number provided if shed 
like to accept that offer.  Mrs C says that shes not received a goodwill payment. If she now 
wants to accept the offer that was made  to her I suggest that she contacts Black Horse  to 
see if it remains available to her. But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Black Horse to take any action in response  to Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7766549