K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax applied  a margin  to an 
international payment made  into her account which meant she lost about £2,500.
background
Miss N received a payment into her Halifax account of over £100,000 following the sale of a 
property in Cyprus. She says she had previously asked Halifax  about  its fees and charges 
and was told there were  none. But she says the money she received  into her account  was 
about £2,500 less than she was expecting and so contacted Halifax.  Miss N says she was 
told Halifax applied a margin  of up to 2% to the daily market exchange rate and this was the 
reason why she received less money than she anticipated. She says that margin is the same  
as a fee or charge and she shouldve been told about it and could have decided  to use a 
different business  to transfer her money.  
Miss N accepts that she couldnt obtain  the exact exchange rate in advance but says she 
didnt expect the exchange  rate Halifax used to be so vastly different. She also says that 
Halifax staff had no idea about international payments  and it has breached  its contract with 
her. She would like compensation  for whats happened equivalent to the money she lost.
Halifax says it has no way of knowing what an exchange  rate would be in advance of a 
transaction as they vary during the course  of the day. It says there is information on its 
website about  the margin it applies to an exchange rate for an international payment. Halifax 
doesnt accept  making  a mistake about the amount transferred to Miss Ns account but 
accepts Miss N spent some time on the phone to it and has offered  her £50 for that.
Miss N doesnt accept that view and brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt 
uphold Miss Ns complaint  and didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly or made a mistake. He 
listened to the calls between the parties  and thought Miss N was correctly told there wasnt  a 
charge for making the transaction and didnt think the margin  Halifax  applied  was a charge 
or fee. He also thought that Miss N hadnt asked about the exchange rate during  the call and 
in any event those  sorts  of decisions about  an exchange rate were  commercial matters for a 
business to decide upon and not something he could interfere in.
Miss N remains  unhappy  with that view and has asked that it be reviewed. She says Halifax  
advisors have limited understanding of these  types  of transactions. She also says that the 
onus on finding  out information  about these matters  shouldnt  be on a lay person.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for largely the same reasons. I realise Miss N will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive listened to the calls between the parties  before  the transaction was made. And Im 
satisfied Miss N called  Halifax  to get information  to complete that transaction  and at the end 
of the call asked  Halifax if there were  any charges  to which  she was told there  wasnt.  So I 
think on balance by that stage Miss N had already decided  to send the money  to her Halifax 
account and there wasnt any discussion during that call about the exchange rate that would 
be applied. I can see that Miss N accepts that she wouldnt  have been able to obtain the 
exact exchange rate in advance of the transaction. But I would have expected  her to have 
Ref: DRN78729072clarified that rate immediately before the transaction took place if she had concerns about  
what the rate was that day. 
I also think it reasonable to have  expected  Miss N to have clarified with Halifax any concerns 
or questions  about  the exchange  rate that she had before deciding  to proceed.  I appreciate 
Miss N says that she is a layperson and the onus shouldnt be on her to ask those questions. 
But Im sorry to disagree that having listened to the calls I dont think Halifax could have 
realised or anticipated that Miss N didnt appreciate that it applied a margin to the daily 
market rate. Im also satisfied that there is information on Halifaxs  website about the margin  
it uses.
I dont think a margin is a charge  or fee but the rate a bank or building society uses  when  
making such international exchanges. I think its up to a business to decide  what that rate is 
when exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in. And 
Im satisfied that most  if not all banks and building  societies  apply  such a margin  to a market 
rate. So I think that even  if Miss N had realised that she wouldnt receive the market rate of 
the day, then it likely she would still have received an exchange rate less favourable than 
that market rate, if she could have used a different  bank or building society that she had an 
account with. 
Overall I dont think for the reasons Ive explained that the margin  is a charge or fee and so I 
dont think Halifax has made a mistake or acted unfairly or that it misled Miss N when she 
called it. I appreciate Miss N says Halifax staff gave her confusing information about   buying  
back  currency  but I think that was about  a different issue  and not related to this complaint. 
And that conversation took place  after the transaction  Miss N complains about in any event.
I accept that Miss N spend  some time on the phone to Halifax  after the transaction had taken 
place. But I can see that Halifax  has made  what I think is a fair and reasonable offer of £50 
in respect of those calls.  I appreciate that in the circumstances Miss N may not wish to 
accept that offer and so I will leave that to her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872907