K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1993 Mr and Mrs B bought PPI at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in one of 
the banks branches. The policy  gave them protection against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they had to take out PPI to get a mortgage, it was 
compulsory. The bank disputes this. I cant know what was said at the time of the sale,  
and Halifax no longer has any of the paperwork from the sale, but thats not surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago it was. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs comments  
carefully but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that 
might affect  what they recall.  Overall, without stronger  evidence, I cant fairly conclude 
that Halifax didnt make  it clear the PPI was optional,  and Mr and Mrs B didnt agree to 
take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr and Mrs B, and I think it seems to have been right 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They were both 
entitled to less than three months  sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for up to 
24 months for all accident and sickness claims.  It also gave up to 12 months 
unemployment cover. Mr and Mrs B were borrowing quite a large sum over a long 
period, secured on their home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments 
could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for 
them if they were sick, had an accident  or lost their job(s).
Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made  clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr and Mrs B dont appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting  
people with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain  types of employment  contract).  
Overall, I dont think better information  wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because  of any problems with this sale.
 
Ref: DRN71616622my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7161662