K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs P says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs P aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding the 
policy to her card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Mrs P applied  for her 
card and PPI but FICL has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork. Mrs Ps application  
form had a separate section for PPI where she has signed to take the policy  separately  to 
agreeing with the card itself. With this in mind I think FICL made it clear that the PPI was 
optional and Mrs P chose to have  it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Mrs P has told us she was self-employed, but the policy didnt make it more difficult  for 
self-employed people  to make a claim so I dont think  this makes a difference. 
Mrs P has also told us she had savings but the policy would have allowed her to keep  her 
savings in place  to be used towards  other  expenses  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN75813842I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7581384