K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with how hes been treated by Mortgage Agency Services  Number Two 
Limited (trading as Verso). Mr T is represented  in this complaint  by Mr C.
background to complaint
In 1998 Mr T and Miss C were buying  a property from Miss Cs parents.  Whilst  the title was 
registered in joint names,  the mortgage broker they appointed to act for them applied for the 
Verso mortgage loan account in Mr Ts sole name. A mortgage offer was issued - and the 
mortgage loan account completed  - on that basis.
I understand Mr T moved  out of the property in 2001  and since then Miss C had been  paying 
the mortgage. Theres been legal  action over the years due to missed  payments.
In 2016 Verso  said it couldnt accept payments from - or discuss the mortgage loan account  
with - Miss C as she wasnt named on it. Since then solicitors have been instructed on both 
sides and a stalemate  was reached  in relation to the named parties.
In January 2019 I issued a decision. In that I explained the complaint would need to be split 
in two as under our rules  Miss C wasnt a customer of Verso as she wasnt named on the 
mortgage loan account, but that we could consider a complaint brought by her (with Mr T) 
about the security  she gave for Mr Ts mortgage  loan.
This decision only deals  with the complaint brought by Mr T about the mortgage loan 
account as only Mr T can complain about that under our rules.  I cant  consider anything  
about how Verso has treated Miss C in this decision.
Our investigator broke  this complaint down into three main points:
interest, charges and legal fees applied to the mortgage loan account,
breakdown of payments made towards the mortgage loan account, and
the mortgage loan account was transferred without authority.
The investigator didnt  think the first two points should be upheld, and she felt the offer of 
£100 compensation Verso had already made  was fair for telling Mr T in error that the 
mortgage loan account had been  transferred when it hadnt.
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigators assessment  and so its been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr T wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I have no doubt  that this is very important for Mr T but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial between, and independent  from, 
Ref: DRN75523822consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
Saying that, the main thrust of this complaint is something we cant consider as I explained 
in my previous decision; that being  the fact Miss C isnt named on the mortgage loan 
account. The difference between being named on the mortgage  loan account  with Verso and 
the giving  of the security for that mortgage loan may seem  an artificial  and non-legal 
distinction to Miss Cs solicitors, but Im bound by our rules  and that is a distinction they 
make.
The basis  I have to decide this complaint under is that Verso  has a mortgage  loan account  in 
Mr Ts sole name over a property jointly  owned by Mr T and Miss C. The fact that wasnt  
what Mr T and Miss C say they intended  isnt something I can consider. Saying that, I must  
take issue with Mr Cs claim that this was a mess that Verso  created. Whilst I cant make a 
finding on what happened back then (as Ive no power to do so) its clear the mortgage loan 
application was made by Mr T and Miss Cs broker in Mr Ts sole name and Mr T and 
Miss Cs solicitor admitted  it made  a mistake  in not telling  Verso  that the property was to be 
owned in joint names.  Both of those parties  were appointed by  and were acting on behalf  
of  Mr T and Miss C, not Verso.
I can only look at the fees and charges added to the mortgage loan account since  14 June 
2016 as an ombudsman colleague  issued a final decision on that date in answer  to a 
previous complaint Mr T had made. Once a decision has been issued by an ombudsman, its 
our final word on the complaint. No ombudsman has the power  to amend or override a 
decision once it has been issued. Having considered everything Im satisfied that weve  
already dealt with a complaint about the fees and charges before that date, so I wont  be 
considering those again here.
Ive reviewed the mortgage loan account  transactions since  14 June 2016 and I can see 
there have  been  some  legal fees added  as well as charges for field agents. Ive looked at the 
mortgage loan account conduct  and the contact  notes, as well as the invoices and reports to 
see what each fee and charge was for. Having done  so Im satisfied  the fees and charges 
were allowable under the mortgage loan account terms and conditions and were  fairly 
incurred based  on the conduct  of the account. 
The mortgage loan account has been in arrears on and off for many  years,  and whilst Verso 
has said it cant accept payments from Miss C, Mr T still has a contractual  obligation to make  
sure the payments are made in full and on time each month. Mr T and Miss Cs personal 
arrangements arent of Versos concern;  all its concerned with is that Mr T meets  the 
obligations of the contract  he entered into when he took out the mortgage loan account. If he 
doesnt meet  those  obligations then Verso has the right to add fees and charges to the 
account and it can look to enforce its security by taking legal action to take possession of the 
property.
Mr C has asked why Verso is allowed to add its legal costs onto Mr Ts mortgage loan 
account debt but that Mr T and Miss C have to pay their own legal costs.  The simple answer 
is the terms and conditions that Mr T agreed  to when he took out the mortgage  loan account 
allow that. The only reasons Verso incurred legal  costs is because  there were  arrears on the 
mortgage account and because Mr T and Miss C instructed solicitors to correspond with it 
about why Miss Cs not named on the mortgage account. Both of those issues  are outside of 
Versos control - and I cant find that its done anything wrong in either - so it would be 
Ref: DRN75523823inappropriate for me to say Verso cant insist the terms and conditions are followed and 
therefore its costs should  be added to the mortgage loan account debt.
That said,  theres one instance of legal  costs being added to the mortgage  which  shouldnt  
have been; this relates to the Reponing Notice in December 2016. It was agreed at the time 
that the decree would be recalled and the action dismissed with no expenses due to or by 
either party. However, in error, Verso debited the associated  £228 costs to the mortgage  on 
18 January 2017  rather  than absorbing  the costs itself.
Whilst I was reviewing the complaint I queried  this with Verso and it admitted its mistake. It 
said the £228 had not been interest bearing,  and that it would reverse the charge. Im 
satisfied thats  a fair outcome to that part of Mr Ts complaint as the charge will be removed 
from the account as if it had never  been there.
Mr C has asked for a breakdown of the mortgage  account showing the payments made.  
Thats something he can request from Verso if he wants, but its all information that would  
have been shown on the annual mortgage statements. Verso  has said that any payments 
made by Miss C were  credited to the mortgage  loan account as normal, and Mr T and 
Miss C havent told us of any payments they think have gone astray.
Finally, Verso  has said its letter of 16 January 2018  which said the mortgage  loan account 
had been transferred to a different company was sent in error. Its offered to pay £100 
compensation for the mistake, and confirmed  the account has never  been  transferred to any 
other lender. Having  considered everything  Im satisfied thats a fair offer of compensation 
and so I dont  order Verso to do anything more.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and order Mortgage  Agency Services  Number Two Limited  
(trading as Verso) to pay £100  compensation to Mr T. I also order  it to reverse the £228 legal 
charge (added  to the account  in January 2017) that relates to the recall of the decree.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7552382