K820x#14complaint
C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do more to help when it was the victim of a 
scam. 
background
C, a company, purchased a plane  ticket for one of its employees  via a website. It made an 
online transfer of £820 on 13 September 2018. When  the employee  arrived  at the airport  on 
22 December 2018, they realised the ticket wasnt genuine and they had been the victim of a 
scam. At that point, C sent their employee  further funds to buy a new,  genuine  ticket.
C raised a complaint with Barclays on 30 January 2019 and Barclays  contacted  the 
beneficiary bank  within  an hour to request  a return of the funds. Unfortunately,  the 
beneficiary bank  responded to say none of the funds remained in the account. Barclays  sent 
a letter  explaining this but it did not reach  C, and their employee contacted Barclays  in 
March to see what was happening. Barclays apologised and offered £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
Barclays said that as C had authorised the payment of £820, it had followed Cs instruction, 
so had not made an error in sending  the payment. And that once it was aware  of the scam,  it 
tried to recover the funds  quickly,  and could not have done more in the circumstance.  So, it 
didnt agree it should refund C the £820.  
The complaint was brought to our service. Our adjudicator investigated and felt that the 
payment wasnt unusual enough to have flagged on Barclays fraud prevention systems, and 
that it was reasonable for Barclays to have followed Cs instruction to make the transfer.  
They also felt that Barclays  had done all it could to try and recover Cs funds, so they didnt 
agree that Barclays should refund C. 
C disagreed with this. In particular, it felt that banks in general should be doing more  to help 
consumers recover funds  after theyve  been scammed by working closer with other banks 
and the police. And that just because  C authorised  the payment, this didnt mean it was at 
fault. It also said it had not received the £100  compensation offer previously mentioned.
As an informal agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to 
review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Ref: DRN70687352Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with C when it made the payment of £820,  or whether Barclays  should have done  more than 
it did.
Both parties  agree that C gave its authority for the payment to be made, so Barclays  had an 
obligation to follow its instruction. But as mentioned  previously,  there are some  situations in 
which Barclays should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding 
the payment.  For example, if it was particularly unusual  or out of character for C to make.
To determine this, Ive looked at Cs bank  statements for the months  leading  up to the 
transfer of £820.  From  this, I can see that C regularly made faster  payments online,  often for 
similar or even  higher amounts than the one in question. So, I dont think  the transaction  
type or amount was unusual  for C to make. And I think it was reasonable that Barclays 
Ref: DRN70687353system didnt flag the payment as suspicious, so I dont think it needed to do any additional 
checks before it was processed. Because of this, I dont think  Barclays needs  to refund the 
£820 to C. 
C raised a scam complaint with Barclays  on 30 January  2019.  Barclays  contacted the 
beneficiary bank  within  an hour to request  a return of the funds. It should be noted that this is 
on a best endeavours basis, meaning  theres no guarantee that the funds will be returned. 
The beneficiary bank  responded  to say that all of Cs funds had already been  removed from 
the account. This isnt surprising considering that scammers often remove  funds as soon as 
possible after receiving them and it had been over four months since the payment of £820  
had been made. I think that Barclays acted quickly to try and get back Cs funds, and I dont 
think it could have  done more in the circumstances. 
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access  to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Barclays could do to help C at that stage.  C has mentioned the responsibility of the 
beneficiary bank, but this complaint is about  Barclays only, so I havent specifically 
considered the actions  of the beneficiary  bank as part of this decision. I understand that C 
has mentioned as part of its complaint that banks should be doing more  in general to help 
consumers recover their funds. But Im unable to pass comment on this as its outside of my 
remit as an ombudsman. I have  assessed  Barclays actions based on what was expected of 
it at the time the payment was made, and the scam complaint was raised. Having done so I 
think it acted reasonably in the circumstances.
Barclays said that it sent a final response  letter to C on 8 February 2019 explaining that none 
of the funds remained in the beneficiary  account.  Unfortunately, there was an error with the 
letter process, and it was never actually sent to C. Because of this, C had to telephone 
Barclays in March to chase up what was happening  with the complaint. In its letter  dated    
18 May 2019, Barclays offered C £100 for the distress and inconvenience this error caused, 
and I think that amount  was fair in the circumstances. I understand this was never formally 
accepted by C, but Barclays  has let me know this is still available.  If C would like to accept 
this offer,  it should  contact Barclays directly. 
Id like to acknowledge  that C has unfortunately been the victim of a scam, and that Ive only 
looked at the actions  of Barclays in relation to the payment being made and the attempted 
recovery of it. In this case, I havent  passed any judgement on the actions of C. I appreciate 
that these situations are never easy to deal with and Im sorry its had to go through  it. After 
carefully considering  everything available to me, I cant see any reason why Barclays  
shouldnt have processed the payment of £820 and I think it was reasonable that it did so 
without additional  questions or checks. And I think it acted appropriately once it was aware 
of the scam and quickly tried to recover the funds, but was unsuccessful.  So, I dont think 
Barclays needs to refund the £820.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Ref: DRN70687354Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7068735