K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made 
under his private medical insurance policy. BUPA declined  the claim because  it considered  
that the treatment  which Mr F intended to receive was experimental.
background
Mr F had symptoms  in his lower urinary tract. His consultant urologist (who  Ill call Dr B) 
recommended that he undergo a procedure  called aquablation to reduce the size of his 
prostate. Mr F asked BUPA to provide cover  for this under his policy  but BUPA wouldnt do 
so on the grounds  that the treatment  was experimental and thus excluded from cover.
Mr F complained to BUPA, pointing out that the National Institute  for Health and Care  
Excellence (NICE) had approved the procedure  for use under special arrangements.
BUPA wouldnt change its position  though it told Mr F it would be prepared  to cover other 
forms of treatment which would be eligible under  his policy.
Mr F was unhappy at BUPAs stance.  He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  it had 
been reasonable for BUPA to say that the aquablation procedure  was experimental  
treatment under the terms of its policy and to decline cover.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He said that the aquablation procedure  was 
approved by NICE for use under special arrangement,  which meant it was a safe treatment. 
He said that Dr B, whod recommended the treatment, was a world  leader in his field.  He 
pointed out that the treatment was available in a particular NHS hospital. He also said he 
knew of at least two other procedures which  NICE had approved  only under special 
arrangements but for which BUPA was prepared to provide cover.  He thus considered it was 
unfair for BUPA to withhold cover  for the aquablation procedure.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy contains  a list of exclusions.  This list includes the following:
We do not pay for treatment or procedures which, in our reasonable opinion, are 
experimental or unproved  based on established medical practice in the United Kingdom, 
such as drugs outside the terms of their licence  or procedures which  have not been 
satisfactorily reviewed by NICE (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence).
It is up to an insurer to decide the extent  of the cover  it is prepared to offer. I dont find the 
above exclusion to be unfair.
NICE has approved  the aquablation procedure for use under  special  arrangements. This 
means there  are conditions attached.  For example, the clinician  should  ensure the patient  
Ref: DRN70825292understands the uncertainty about  the procedures efficacy and should collect  data about the 
clinical outcomes of all those undergoing the treatment. The reason for these  special 
conditions is because NICE considers there  is limited evidence  concerning  the procedures 
efficacy.
In view of the above, I consider it is reasonable for BUPA to say the procedure  has not been 
satisfactorily reviewed by NICE and therefore  falls under the above  exclusion. If NICE was 
entirely satisfied about the safety  and efficacy of the procedure, it would be approved  for use 
under standard arrangements.
I note that the treatment  has been recommended by Dr B and that it is available  (under the 
special arrangements)  through a particular NHS hospital.  However, this doesnt alter the fact 
that the treatment  falls under the policys exclusion and so BUPA is not obliged to offer 
cover.
Mr F has drawn  attention  to two other procedures which have also been approved by NICE 
only under  special arrangements but for which BUPA is apparently prepared to provide  
cover. However, I consider it reasonable that BUPA should exercise its discretion in certain 
circumstances to provide  cover for procedures which havent yet been  fully approved by 
NICE. This might happen because, for example, the NICE advice has become outdated and 
doesnt reflect the weight of current evidence  and medical practice. However, BUPA  doesnt  
consider that this is the case in respect  of the aquablation procedure. The NICE guidance 
was published  in September 2018  and BUPA considers there  has been insufficient  evidence 
published in peer-reviewed journals  since then to demonstrate the NICE guidance needs to 
be changed. In my view,  this is a reasonable position for BUPA to take.
I understand why Mr F is very keen to undergo  the aquablation procedure rather  than an 
established alternative procedure for which BUPA would  be prepared  to provide cover. 
I appreciate that he must be very frustrated by the situation. However, Im satisfied that 
BUPA has acted fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7082529