K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr C says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr C aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  it 
to his card. The policy  was taken out a long time ago so limited information  about the sale is 
now available. It is clear  that the PPI policy was taken out after Mr C applied for his card and 
had it for some  time.  As Mr C already had his card when he applied  for the PPI I think  he 
would have known  he didnt have to have  the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr C 
has told us he was self-employed  when he took the PPI, wasnt  entitled  to sick pay and had 
no other means of making his repayments.  The policy didnt make it any more  difficult for a 
self-employed person to make a claim and based  on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances 
at the time, I think that the policy  was right for him. For example he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said  including that he was told he had to take PPI 
to be accepted for further borrowing by the bank. But I dont have enough to say this is what 
was said at the time so I cant uphold his complaint for this reason  and these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN72377572The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7237757