K821x#15complaint
Ms B complained about how Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited  (LV) dealt with 
her home emergency call out following  an escape of water  and her subsequent insurance 
claim for the damage caused  to her home  and its contents. 
background
Ms B took out a buildings and contents  home insurance policy with LV in May 2016  that 
included home  emergency call out cover. Ms B has renewed this policy  with LV each year 
since 2016 to the present day. 
On 23 January 2017 there was an escape of water from the water  storage tank in the attic in 
Ms Bs home. This caused part of her property, a bungalow, to flood. Ms B called LV, as she 
had home  emergency  cover with it. LV said it attended the following day but was unable to 
gain access to the property. 
Ms B was unable to switch off the water from the mains supply in the road as the stop cock 
was faulty. It then took her water provider five days to attend  and switch the water off. Ms B 
moved out of her home  and into alternative  accommodation on 23 January 2017,  as she 
said her property did not have heating or hot water.  
Ms B also submitted a claim to LV for the damage to her home  caused  by the escape of 
water. 
LV sent contractors  out to trace the leak in Ms Bs property on 1 February 2017. But they 
were unable to do this because of the amount of possessions Ms B had in her home. The 
contractors offered to move Ms Bs possessions for her, but she declined. A loss adjuster 
had been booked to attend Ms Bs property the following day, but this appointment was 
cancelled because of the problems with gaining access to areas  in the property. 
Ms B submitted a complaint to LV about  its home  emergency response following the escape 
of water.  LV responded on 22 February 2017.  It said its home emergency supplier attended 
Ms Bs home on 24 January and took a proof of visit photo  of her home. LV said the 
supplier didnt know the bell wasnt working or that they needed to go to the back  door of the 
property to get in. It said the supplier tried to call Ms B and left a message on her 
answerphone. 
LV said its home emergency supplier arranged a new appointment to visit Ms B, but it 
cancelled this as it thought Ms Bs own tradesman  had shut off the mains  water supply. It 
said it now understood that the water was actually still running at this point. As a gesture  of 
goodwill, it sent Ms B £25 and a further  £55 for Ms B to purchase a mobile  phone, so that it 
could keep in contact with her during  her claim.  
A further  appointment was arranged  for the loss adjuster to attend  on 9 March 2017, but the 
loss adjuster was unable  to assess the property because of the amount of possessions. 
Ms B again said she didnt need  help to move her possessions. LV spoke to Ms B on 
30 March 2017  and a further visit was arranged for 27 April 2017. 
The loss adjuster attended the property on 27 April 2017. Ms Bs possessions had not been 
cleared from the property  and so the meeting  was conducted outside. The loss adjuster said 
the escape of water  was likely caused  by wear  and tear to the valve to the water  tank in the 
Ref: DRN78672792loft. He said it wasnt possible to gauge the amount of damage to the building and contents  
because of Ms Bs possessions. The loss adjuster said he had concerns that the property 
would continue to deteriorate as a result  of the damp issues  until all the contents had been 
removed. He estimated  that once the contents were removed, the property would take four 
to six weeks to dry out.
Ms B contacted LV on 4 May 2017  and said a tile had come loose on her roof. LV agreed for 
its claim handlers to assess the roof to see whether  the problem was claim related. 
LVs claim handlers wrote to Ms B in May 2017 about the amount of possessions  in her 
property. It advised  her that liability would not be accepted and alternative  accommodation  
costs would be at her own expense if these were  not removed. LV and Ms B spoke on 
16 May 2017 about disposing of any damaged items, putting  what items they can into 
storage or into rooms  that werent  affected by the escape of water.  
LVs claim handlers arranged for beyond  economical repair (BER) items to be put into a 
skip and removed  from the property in mid-June 2017. At the same  time, some items that 
were salvageable were packed into around  100 boxes and put into storage. 
Ms B complained to LV again in July 2017 about the lack of progress  on her claim. It 
responded on 3 August 2017. It said an incident,  where a door taken off the hinges at Ms Bs 
property fell on her, was being dealt with by the contractors and not LV. Ms B also 
complained that there were items missing from the BER list and other items were disposed  
of that could have been  salvaged. LV said it spoke to Ms B on 8 June and asked her to go to 
the property, throw  away as much  as possible and keep a list of what was disposed of. The 
disposal of the skip was put on hold until after the weekend, to give Ms B sufficient time to 
do this. LV said it had a definitive list of items Ms B believes were incorrectly  disposed of and 
it would  consider these  items as part of her contents claim.   
Ms Bs complained to this service in October  2017. Her main  complaint points were:
Her house was currently  uninhabitable, and LV hadnt paid the claim.
No waste had been collected.
No payment had been made  for alternative  accommodation  and the cost of 
kennelling Ms Bs pets.
Loss adjusters had cancelled appointments.
No documentation  had been provided about  the damaged, uninhabitable  property.
A contractor lost Ms Bs front door key.
Ms B told us she was struggling financially, as she doesnt receive a pension  or benefits. 
She also said that LV wasnt willing to provide her with a letter  confirming her home is 
uninhabitable, so she was paying for some  utility charges twice.  
LV responded on 27 October 2017  to a further complaint made by Ms B to it. The complaint 
points were: 
LV hadnt provided Ms B with the documentation  she needed confirming the property 
was uninhabitable.
No one attended the property to clear the damaged goods until June 2017.
Sentimental and undamaged items had been disposed of when  a skip was removed  
in early June 2017.
Hazardous rubbish  remained  outside  Ms Bs home.
Ref: DRN78672793Ms B was unhappy  she was told she needed to repair the roof.
Keys were lost in the post when the contractors sent them to Ms B.
Ms B said dryers had yet to be installed at the property.
Ms B said she was still being  billed for water  at the property.
Ms B said she was told the claim would not be progressed until she met with the loss 
adjuster, but she found visits upsetting.
Ms B asked not to have to deal with a particular claims handler. 
In response, LV said it couldnt issue the documents Ms B has requested until a loss 
adjuster attended  her property. It said it would consider any cost incurred since Ms B went 
into alternative accommodation once the loss adjuster had attended and Ms B has provided 
evidence to show how much shes paid. LV said it wasnt able to gain access to Ms Bs 
property to clear damaged contents  because it was waiting for Ms B to remove enough of 
the contents of the property in order for access to be gained.  LV reiterated  what  it said in the 
August 2017 final response letter about items disposed of in the skip, which was that there 
was a BER list that could  be looked  at when the contents claim are being considered. It also 
said the contractors  strongly refute the allegation that they disposed of personal  items. 
LV said it needed  confirmation about  what the hazardous rubbish related to and that its 
contractors would look into this when they were  allowed access to lift the carpet thats  been  
damaged. And it would also look at the electrics  if they were  still tripping. LV said it wasnt 
accepting liability for the repairs  to the roof, as the damage was not insurance  related. The 
roof was inspected and found to be in poor condition  tiles had slipped  and the ridge hip 
tiles had decayed  allowing  them  to become porous.  LV said it couldnt install dryers in the 
property or carry out repairs  until the roof had been  repaired.
LV said it was waiting  for an invoice in relation to the locks  being changed following the keys 
being lost in the post. This information was requested in September  2017 but hasnt been 
received. LV said the water  at Ms Bs home  was turned off by its contractors. It said,  as far 
as its aware, a standing  charge for water rates is payable regardless of whether the supply 
is in use. LV said Ms B was correctly advised that the loss adjuster needed to attend  to 
assess the damage, now that some of the contents  in her home had been cleared. LV 
suggested Ms B could  have a friend or relative  attend with her. LV also said the claims 
handler in question was best placed  to deal with her complaint.  LV said it had agreed  to fund 
Ms Bs alternative accommodation at the beginning of the claim and was happy  to cover the 
cost incurred to date, but it wouldnt  continue  to do so indefinitely. And it needed evidence of 
the outlay. 
In November 2017 LV instructed new loss adjusters, as Ms Bs relationship with the earlier 
loss adjusters had broken down. The loss adjuster  visited Ms Bs home on 21 November  
2017. The report subsequently prepared said: 
Damage to the property was limited to the loft area, hall, front bedroom and bathroom 
and the claim should be confined to those areas.
The extent of the damage to contents  couldnt  be established, as items had been  
cleared and disposed of prior to the visit. But they had lists provided by the previous  
loss adjusters.
The property shouldnt  have remained  uninhabitable  for this length of time, but in its 
current state it was uninhabitable  and would remain so until the extent of the strip out 
and drying had been ascertained, as well as the electrical and plumbing systems 
being tested to ensure they were  functioning  correctly.
Ref: DRN78672794A temporary repair to the leaking pipe was undertaken by the previous contractors. 
Ms B is responsible for the permanent repair.
Ms B was made aware that there was a hole in the roof, visible from inside the 
property, that it was her responsibility  to repair. Ms B advised  them  the repairs  are 
unlikely to progress  until January 2018.
Ms B was asked  to provide alternative accommodation costs and supporting 
documentation.
Contents deemed BER to be provided to Ms B to review.
One of our investigators  issued an assessment in February 2018. He encouraged Ms B to 
provide LV with evidence of where  she was living. He considered whether Ms Bs roof had 
been damaged  by the contractors working  on her home. He said hed seen evidence that 
Ms B was considering a full roof repair in May 2015,  which indicated  problems  with the roof 
were pre-existing. He said he was aware the roof has been repaired and so he would expect 
LV to be proactive about carrying  on with the necessary work and said Ms B needs to 
ensure that LV is able to access the rooms  in her home. Our investigator agreed the skip 
with Ms Bs contents had been moved  earlier than planned and so she was denied the 
opportunity to go through items before they were  removed. Our investigator  said LV has said 
it will consider any items  removed as part of Ms Bs contents claim. 
Its unclear exactly when the repairs  to Ms Bs roof were finished. The information I have 
suggests they were  scheduled to be completed on 2 February 2018, that LVs loss adjuster  
arranged for contractors to visit Ms Bs home in February 2018 after the roof repairs had 
been carried out, but information I have also suggests LV only learned in April 2018 that the 
repairs had been  completed. Putting that aside, I can see that the visit carried  out by 
contractors in February 2018 was to assess any moisture  damage and the extent of drying  
needed. The contractors  said moisture  was confined to the hallway and the walls coming off 
the front part hallway  which was directly under the header tank. They  recommended that 
drying equipment  was installed  in the hallway, bathroom and front bedroom.  They  said the 
loft area was dry. 
Ms B contacted this service in March 2018  and said the contractors wanted  to get access  to 
her property to install dehumidifiers and dryers. Ms B said she was concerned about how 
much electricity this would use. Ms B also told this service that she didnt intend to allow LV 
access to her home until an interim payment was made. She also asked LV to consider 
offering a cash settlement so that she could arrange for her own contractors to carry out the 
work on her home. LV asked Ms B to provide evidence of expenses  shed incurred. The 
dehumidifiers and dryers  were not installed in Ms Bs house.
Ms B called  this service on 2 July 2018 and asked LV to consider using different contractors, 
as she had seen  bad reviews online for those already appointed. Around  this time, Ms B also 
decided she didnt want to accept a cash settlement from LV. 
LV wrote to Ms B in September 2018,  following a meeting between Ms B, the loss adjuster 
and a contractor  and outlined the work  that needed to be carried out on the property. It 
asked Ms B to sign and return the document. LV said the work should  take six to eight 
weeks to complete. LV said it would fund Ms Bs alternative accommodation from the date 
she needs to leave her current accommodation   28 September 2018  to the date of 
completion, as long as there were no delays.
The work on Ms Bs property began in February  2019 and driers were installed on 
Ref: DRN7867279521 February 2019. On 1 March 2019 the contractors discovered,  following a radiator leak, 
that central heating pipework under  the floorboards in the middle bedroom needed to be 
repaired. In order  for this to happen, Ms B needed  to move her possessions from two 
bedrooms. In mid-March  2019 the contractors  temporarily stopped working because of the 
volume of Ms Bs possessions still in the property. The contractors resumed work and 
wooden floorboards in the room where the radiator  leaked were replaced,  as was the 
radiator. The radiator  repairs were  dealt with as a separate  claim by LV. 
One of our investigators  issued a second assessment in March 2019. He said LV had so far 
made payments totalling £15,543.37 to Ms B for alternative accommodation - £5,000 paid in 
May 2017 and a further £10,543.37 paid for costs incurred in 2017 that was calculated after 
Ms B submitted a considerable amount of expenditure related documents  to LV. Our 
investigator said LV didnt  intend  to reimburse  Miss Bs alternative accommodation costs for 
2018, as it felt it was Miss B who prevented it from clearing the house and starting the 
repairs. But LV agreed to cover alternative accommodation costs for the duration of the 
repairs in 2019,  once the relevant paperwork was received.  
LV said the building repairs, including  snagging work, were  all completed in early  June  2019.  
Ms B didnt feel LV had carried  out all necessary  repair work, thought the house  was 
uninhabitable and did not move back in. She said the new toilet  that had been installed did 
not suit her needs,  as it was not raised. Ms B said she also needed a new bed, bedding, net 
and heavy curtains and floor coverings.  
LV wrote to Ms B on 4 July 2019 and set out its position in relation to the repairs  carried out 
on her home. It said its responsibility  to fund alternative accommodation had come  to an 
end. LV said it was aware Ms B doesnt  think the work has been  completed  correctly. It said 
Ms B could either allow  the loss adjuster  access to inspect the work she thinks hasnt been 
done correctly,  which LV said Ms B was not willing to do, or Ms B could provide expert 
evidence in support  of her own opinion. 
LV summed  up its position as follows:
Repairs to Ms Bs home  are now complete. 
The damaged  contents have been  valued at £3,000.
As a gesture of goodwill it will pay for a replacement front door.
Ms Bs accommodation claim for 2017 has been allowed.
Ms Bs accommodation claim for 2018 has not been allowed because the delays in 
the repairs being carried out were  not due to LV and these  costs  are not its 
responsibility.
The cost of accommodation for the period while the repairs were carried  out in 2019 
has been agreed.
The contents can be returned and LV agreed to allow a further few weeks for Ms B to 
sort this out.
The work done to repair the radiator in the second bedroom was accepted  as a 
further claim, as the damage  was not caused  by the initial water  leak.  The cost of 
replacing the carpet was considered to be £350 and as the policy  excess  for this 
claim was £350,  no payment was due from Ms B. 
LV wrote to Ms B on 10 July 2019 and told her it hadnt yet received a response regarding 
what she wants to do with the stored contents  of her property. It said as of 15 July 2019, the 
storage charges of £336 per week will be deducted  from any figure agreed. 
Ref: DRN78672796In an attempt to try and resolve the issue of whether Ms Bs house  was habitable, I asked LV 
to fund an independent survey of the property in December 2019. LV agreed to this and 
Ms B chose the independent  surveyor. Covid-19  restrictions meant the survey couldnt be 
carried out until July 2020 and the report was available  in August 2020. 
LV arranged for its contractors to read and respond to the report. It said it believes the 
surveyor didnt identify  any material deficiencies in the work undertaken by LVs contractors. 
It said where any issue could potentially be due to the contractor, but this was not proven, it 
was willing  to make a reasonable offer to resolve,  as a gesture of goodwill. LV proposed a 
cash settlement, so that Ms B could arrange for her own contractors to carry out the work. 
The offer made was: 
Carpets - £795.15 
Pendant light fittings - £100
Carbon/smoke detectors - £50
Toilet  - £500
Body drier - £100
LV said that prior to the escape  of water the property  was in need  of updating and 
decorations were of an age. Where water damage  occurred it paid to redecorate the 
property. The remaining rooms still require redecoration but that is the same position as it 
was before the claim. 
Ms B didnt accept LVs offer. She listed a number of issues  with the repairs that she felt 
hadnt been resolved, including not having enough furniture to move back  into the property, 
safety items  in the wet room needing  to be replaced,  mould  in every room, not enough being 
offered to replace the carpets, an electrical certificate that was not sufficient, the lounge  
needed to be professionally  cleaned  and a broken wash basin  in the wet room. Ms B was 
also concerned  that LV wouldnt consider written receipts for alternative accommodation 
costs. 
Ms B brought her complaint about the emergency call out cover to this service outside  of the 
six-month time limit specified in LVs final response  letter. However, LV has consented  to 
this service looking into this part of Ms Bs complaint. LV has also agreed that this service 
can look at all events that have happened  in relation  to Ms Bs home insurance claim since  it 
provided its final responses in 2017.  This includes how it dealt with the leak in the middle 
bedroom in March 2019 as a separate claim.
Because both parties are in dispute about  this claim,  this complaint has come to me to 
review. 
Provisional decisions 
I issued my first provisional  decision  on 4 December 2020. I said it wasnt  possible to 
comprehensively outline the final decision I intended to reach  because  of information that 
was needed to inform what alternative  accommodation, kennelling and utility and other living 
costs might need to be paid. Or whether the right action  was taken by LV in relation to the 
second escape of water at Ms Bs property in 2019. I also outlined what  further  actions I 
would like both LV and Ms B to take to provide the information needed. Both Ms B and LV 
responded. 
Ref: DRN78672797Having considered all of the information provided,  I was then able to issue  a second 
provisional decision on 12 March  2021. I outlined the actions I intended to ask LV to take in 
relation to Ms Bs complaint. These were: 
Pay Ms B a further £175 (in addition to the £25 already paid)  for the error made when 
dealing with the home emergency  call out. 
Pay alternative accommodation costs up to and including July 2019.
Cover any kennelling  costs up to and including  July 2019. 
Cover any council  tax paid by Ms B that is over and above  what  she would have paid 
if she had been able to remain in her home.  
Pay, at a later point if necessary, any utility expenses incurred by Ms B that are over 
and above those she would have incurred  if she had been able to remain  in her 
home. 
Pay for a replacement door to the value  of £431.78.  
Pay the following  amounts outlined by LV in August 2020, which were:
oPendant light fittings - £100
oCarbon/smoke detectors - £50
oBody drier - £100
Pay a total of £2,670  for hallway  and front bedroom carpets. 
Pay a total of £3,220  in relation to the second  claim in March 2019, less the £350 
excess.
Pay a total of £790 towards having  an appropriate toilet and basin fitted.
Pay the £3,000 contents settlement to Ms B. But Ms B should be allowed to raise  any 
concerns she has about additional missing or damaged items with LV once shes  had 
the chance to look through her possessions in storage. And this should, if necessary, 
be dealt with as a new complaint. 
Pay for the locks  that needed  to be replaced  at Ms Bs home, subject  to Ms B 
providing proof of the cost incurred by her. 
Pay an amount of £100 towards  redecorating  one of the bedrooms.  
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
LV responded and provided  an inventory of the items it has placed in storage for Ms B. It 
also made the following points, summarised  below:  
 
Ms B was first advised by LV that the damage to her roof would not be covered  under 
her policy  in LVs letter dated  27 July 2017  and not December 2017. LV said it then 
took until April 2018 for Ms B to complete  the repairs. 
A cash settlement  was first proposed in March 2018, but it wasnt until August 2018  
that Ms B advised her preference was for LVs contractors to be appointed.  This 
meant a delay of approximately five months occurred. 
Whilst there were times in 2018 when Ms B was unwell, she made  contact with LV 
during that time and so her health isnt a primary factor when accounting for delays.  
LV understands Ms Bs health and vulnerability and this is reflected in its general 
approach to her claim and along  with the alternative accommodation and storage  
costs it has already agreed to fund. 
It wasnt necessary for Ms B to vacate the property  in 2017 and this wasnt  discussed 
with LV before the move was made. Emergency work could have been undertaken to 
allow her to remain at home.  
The timeframe for repairing the property  was short - less than 3 months. But Ms B 
has incurred an unknown  sum to live elsewhere  for longer. And this was often in a 
Ref: DRN78672798hotel rather than a similar, potentially lower cost property. Ms B hasnt taken  action to 
limit her expenditure  and this was raised  with her on a number of occasions,  to try to 
let her know what the consequences might  be. 
LV spent  a considerable sum of money storing Ms Bs contents over a long period of 
time, before and since a letter sent in July 2019  outlining its position on each  
outstanding aspect of her complaint. The total expenditure on alternative 
accommodation and associated costs exceeds  £46,500 to date, with a combined  
policy limit for Building and Contents set at £50,000.
It said a more equitable outcome in relation to 2018 alternative accommodation 
expenses would  be for LV to contribute 50%, or £10,000 (whichever is greater) 
towards the costs  Ms B incurred  during  2018. And this is on the proviso that Ms B 
agrees for her contents to be returned to her, by a date to be agreed. LV would 
continue paying  the storage costs up to the agreed  date. 
If the contents remain in storage for longer than the agreed date, LV reserves  the 
right to either require  Ms B to meet the storage costs, or it would  have to consider, as 
a last resort, whether  her contents should be disposed of. And this is because  it 
cannot fund her storage costs indefinitely.
It accepted the increase in compensation for how it handled the emergency call out, 
said it will honour the offer of £431.78 for a replacement door, £100 for pendant light 
fittings, £50 for carbon/smoke detectors,  £500  for a toilet, £100 for a body drier,  
£3,000 for the BER contents items,  £370  net of the £350  excess  for a replacement 
middle bedroom carpet  and £2,250 for replacement bedroom wardrobes. And if Ms B 
provides evidence she paid for replacement door locks,  it will reimburse the cost she 
incurred. 
Ms B also responded and provided more information  about  alternative accommodation. She 
also reiterated points  she had made  earlier about  the claim.  In addition Ms B pointed  out the 
vulnerable position she was placed in, given her poor health,  when the water  to her home 
wasnt turned off for several days in January  2017. Ms B asked to be given further  time to 
get a legal opinion about her options.  
Ms B also arranged for a family member to call this service and he was concerned that I 
might not be aware  of Ms Bs current ill-health. He said Ms B hasnt been able to pass 
everything onto this service that she might otherwise have provided.  He asked for this to be 
taken into account.  
I want to reassure Ms B that its not necessary  for her to pass all receipts or other  
information to me before  this decision is issued.  Whether or not shes owed money for 
expenses incurred has been considered, even where proof of the expenditure hasnt yet 
been provided. This can be provided to LV at a later date. 
To be fair to all parties,  I am not going  to provide further time before I issue my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I want to emphasise here that Ive focused on the key points in relation to Ms Bs complaint,  
which has changed since she first brought her complaint to this service.  Ms Bs complaint is 
a complex one and Ive looked at each of the relevant complaint points in turn below.   
Ref: DRN78672799Emergency call out
Ive seen the policy documents relating to Ms Bs home emergency cover  and Im satisfied 
the policy covers situations like the escape of water  at Ms Bs home on the night of 
23 January 2017.  So the question Im looking at is whether LV could have done more  once 
Ms B reported the escape of water to it. 
Ms B says LV didnt  visit her property immediately following the escape of water. However, I 
can see that LV did arrange for a contractor to visit Ms Bs property on 24 January 2017, the 
day after the leak began, but they werent able to gain access. Information from LV suggests 
the contractor wasnt  aware the front doorbell  didnt work  and didnt know  access  to the 
house could only be gained through the back door. The contractor  also tried to contact Ms B 
by phone to let her know they were there. So while I fully appreciate  that the water wasnt 
turned off when the contractor first attended, I cant see that theres any more they could 
have done to try and gain access to the property and to try to speak to Ms B on 
24 January 2017.  
However, I do think LV was at fault for cancelling the second visit, when it mistakenly 
thought the water had already been shut off by Ms Bs water  provider. I think  its unlikely 
Ms B would  have told LV this had been  done  when it hadnt. LV has acknowledged this error 
and offered Ms B a £25 gesture of goodwill payment. It also sent a further £55 to Ms B so 
that she could  purchase  a mobile  phone, as LV said it was proving difficult to contact Ms B. 
I know that Ms B feels strongly that most  of what has subsequently happened could have 
been avoided  if LV had turned off the water  when it first attended her home. While I agree 
that less water would  have escaped,  I take the view that Ms Bs home and contents would 
still have suffered some degree of water  damage  and Ms B would still have needed to move  
out of the property into alternative accommodation. And as Ms Bs home would still have 
been in need of repairs, I cant  see that the subsequent  claims process would have been any 
different if the water  had been  turned off by the contractors the day after the escape of water 
began.
While I take into consideration that there  might  have been some  shortcomings with Ms Bs 
water providers response to the escape of water, Im satisfied  that Ms B faced 
inconvenience and a good deal of distress as a result of LV cancelling the second visit to her 
home and so not turning  off the water  supply earlier. And I dont think  the £25 offered to 
Ms B is enough to compensate  her for this. I think a fair amount is £200. While I think the 
inconvenience of having to move  out was unavoidable and not LVs responsibility, Im 
satisfied Ms B experienced a good  deal of distress while water continued to enter her home 
and cause damage to her property and possessions. 
When Ms B responded to the first provisional  decision, she said that the contractors who 
visited her home werent professional. Ms Bs comments  have been  taken  into consideration 
but have not changed  my decision. So I am asking LV to pay an additional £175 
compensation to Ms B. LV has agreed  to pay this additional amount. 
Condition of the roof
In around May 2017, LVs contractors  noticed  a hole in the tiled section of Ms Bs roof and 
said rainwater was entering the property  as a result. LV said it wasnt  able to carry out 
repairs to the rest of the property while water  continued to enter  through  the roof. LV carried 
out an inspection  to see whether the damage  was connected to a roof related claim a few 
Ref: DRN786727910years earlier.  But LV concluded it wasnt  and that Ms Bs roof was in poor condition. LV said 
tiles had slipped and the ridge  hip tiles had decayed allowing them  to become porous. So LV 
said Ms B was responsible for the repairs that needed to be carried out to the roof before 
dryers could be installed in the property. 
Ms B said LVs contractors left the door to the attic and various other  doors open and so the 
roof tile was displaced  by the wind this caused. Ms B has paid to have her roof replaced and 
thinks LV should  refund  all or some of the cost to her as she believes it is responsible for the 
damage. Ms B also said the contractors who inspected the roof caused  more damage to it. 
However, Im satisfied that LV dont need to contribute  to the cost of repairing  the roof. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive seen the report drawn up by the loss adjuster  following  an inspection of Ms Bs property 
and the report  includes photographs of the roof. While I acknowledge that I am not a roofing 
expert, I am satisfied that these photographs  show worn  ridge  tiles and loose  / out of place  
flashing. 
Having seen LVs claim notes, I can see that in 2015  Ms B contacted LV and said part of the 
apex of her roof had fallen off and knocked  a tile out of place. So Ms B arranged for a roofer 
to secure the tile and make the roof watertight.  The notes say that at some stage Ms B was 
considering a full roof repair. What this tells me is that Ms B had some  pre-existing problems 
with her roof before LVs contractors began to work on her home.
Ms B said she had photographic and / or video evidence of LVs contractors damaging the 
roof. But I have not been provided with this evidence by Ms B. Our investigator contacted 
one of Ms Bs neighbours, at Ms Bs request, to discuss LVs inspection of the roof. Ms Bs 
neighbour said the area where  light is getting  in through  the roof is a different section to the 
one worked on by LVs contractors. 
So while I appreciate that having  the roof replaced was a considerable and unexpected 
additional cost for Ms B, Im satisfied that the damage to the roof was because it was worn  
and not because of action  or inaction  on the part of LV. And repairs  or replacement of a worn 
roof is a wear and tear issue that isnt covered by Ms Bs home  insurance  policy. 
When Ms B responded to the first provisional  decision, she said she thought LVs 
contractors had caused damage  to the roof by climbing on it when  trying  to get an asbestos  
sample. She also thought the felt tiles blew out as a result of actions taken  by the leak 
tracers. Ive considered  what Ms B said, but it doesnt change  my decision here.   
Alternative accommodation 
Ms Bs policy covers  her in the event  her home is uninhabitable, and she needs  to move into 
alternative accommodation. It says: If your home becomes uninhabitable following loss or 
damage covered  under  this section  we will pay up to £25,000 during the period of insurance 
for: the extra cost of similar alternative accommodation for you, your family and your 
domestic pets.
Ms B moved into alternative accommodation on the night that the escape of water  happened 
and has not yet moved back  into her home.  When  LV responded to the second  provisional 
decision it said it takes the view that it wasnt necessary for Ms B to move to alternative 
accommodation, as emergency work could have been undertaken that allowed Ms B to 
Ref: DRN786727911remain in her home. But I can see that LV did approve the move  into alternative 
accommodation, albeit  after Ms B had already moved out of her home. And so, for this 
reason, I dont intend to look into this point further.  
LV has said it will cover  the cost of alternative  accommodation in 2017 but originally  said it 
would not cover the cost of alternative  accommodation in 2018 or since the work was 
completed in 2019. This is because it thinks Ms B caused avoidable delays in 2018  and that 
Ms B should have  moved  back  into the property in around July 2019.
Theres no doubt there were significant  delays in having the repairs  carried out to Ms Bs 
property. So before I look at what alternative accommodation costs should  be paid, I need to 
consider whether LV acted fairly  when  it said avoidable delays caused by Ms B mean  it 
shouldnt have to pay alternative accommodation costs  in 2018, or following completion  of 
the work  in 2019. 
I think its important to say here that when an insurance claim of any kind is made,  the 
consumer involved is expected to make sure they do what  they can to mitigate any losses  
associated with the claim. What this means in relation to the claim delays is that Ms B is 
expected to ensure she did what she could to make  sure there were no avoidable  delays 
that could be attributed  to her. 
Ive looked first of all at whether LV acted fairly when it said Ms B caused  avoidable  delays in 
2018. Ive taken into consideration that Ms B is a vulnerable consumer. 
I can see that very early  on in the claims process,  LV provided Ms B with enough  money to 
buy a mobile phone because it was having difficulty contacting her. And Im satisfied that LV 
recognised early on that Ms B is a vulnerable consumer. 
I can see that Ms B was advised  a number of times in 2017 that there  were  so many 
possessions in her property that LVs contractors were unable  to access  it to either assess 
or carry out work. But I dont think theres  any need  to go into any more  detail about possible 
delays in 2017, given that LV has agreed  to pay alternative accommodation  costs  for that 
first year. 
When I issued the first provisional decision I asked both LV and Ms B to provide me with 
further information about why the work to Ms Bs home didnt go ahead in 2018 as it should  
have done. Both LV and Ms B responded.  
LV said:  
It tried to arrange a site visit in January 2018  to assess the extent of strip out and 
drying work needed. It said this service relayed a message from Ms B that she felt 
pressured by LV. So it gave  Ms B some space. 
In February 2018 this service relayed a message from Ms B that she didnt intend to 
co-operate with LV until she had received a payment from it. 
In early March 2018 Ms B was considering  whether  she would prefer  a cash 
settlement. So LV tried to arrange to clear the contents of her home so that a 
surveyor had space  to properly  assess the damage and scope the work for pricing. 
But it said this was unsuccessful.  
In late April 2018 it learned the roof had been repaired. It said it would have been 
unable to carry out internal work  until this was done, as it needed  to know  the 
property was watertight.
Ref: DRN786727912In May 2018 Ms B informed LV she had an accident at the property  she was living at 
and had been hospitalised. So LV said it was unable to gain access to her property. 
In June 2018 LV said it tried to contact  Ms B for an update  on her health,  but it wasnt 
able to get in touch  with her.  
In July 2018 Ms B told LV she didnt want its appointed contractor to work  in her 
home, as shed seen  poor reviews about their service. It said it stressed the need for 
the contractors who would dry the property to attend, and also a surveyor  to scope 
the repairs. 
In August 2018 Ms B informed LV she was undergoing hospital treatment and it 
might be difficult  to contact her for the foreseeable future. Ms B also said she no 
longer wanted  a cash settlement and she would wait for the site visit due to be 
carried out in September 2018,  when  an agreement was reached on how the claim 
would progress. 
A provisional start date of 8 October 2018 was secured. And a repair  schedule  was 
produced and sent to Ms B for approval. 
On 9 November  2018 this service  relayed a message to LV from Ms B that she 
hadnt received  the schedule. And she wanted to appoint her own tradesmen. 
LV said throughout 2018 it proved very difficult for it to get in touch with Ms B, and when 
contact was made the conversations  were  often unproductive,  as Ms B appeared focused on 
receiving money to cover her accommodation  expenses, rather  than allowing access for it to 
get the repair process underway.
I contacted LV in February 2021,  after Id received and considered the information above. I 
outlined why I thought a fair outcome here would be to pay Ms Bs alternative 
accommodation and associated costs for 2018. A summary of what I said is below: 
Repairs to the roof of Ms Bs home   Ms B received a letter from the loss adjuster in 
early December  2017 advising her that the roof repairs were  not part of the claim, 
wouldnt be covered  by LV and so she should  make her own arrangements as soon 
as possible to have  any necessary  work done  on the roof. I can see that LV has 
indicated that it would  not have  been a good  idea for it to carry out any work 
internally until the roof was repaired.  I dont  know the exact date when the work to the 
roof was finished,  but I can see LV became aware at the end of April 2018 that the 
work was now complete. Given that this was something unexpected  for Ms B and 
that it can often take time to get estimates and arrange contractors to carry out what  
was extensive  work  to her roof, I think Ms B seems to have done what she could to 
get this work done without any unnecessary delays.  So, given that it seems like she 
did what she could to make the house watertight and that LV couldnt  have carried 
out internal repairs  until the roof work  was done, Im not sure that its fair for LV to 
say she caused  unnecessary delays between January and April 2018 and so 
shouldnt have  any alternative accommodation costs for this period.  
Cash settlement request  I can see that Ms B also asked for a cash  settlement to be 
considered in 2018, which seems  to have been  largely because  she was unhappy  
with the contractors suggested by LV. And while it might have resulted in some 
delays to work starting on the house,  I think it was a reasonable request for Ms B to 
make. I know that she changed her mind later on, but it was still a reasonable 
request at the time.   
Illness  I can see that Ms B was ill on at least two occasions in 2018  and that this 
caused delays.  But I dont think its fair to consider  the times  when Ms B was ill as 
times when she caused unnecessary delays. I see unexpected occurrences like this 
Ref: DRN786727913as part and parcel of dealing with a complex claim  like this one. They arent  the fault 
of either  party.  
Vulnerable consumer   There were certainly  ongoing difficulties with engaging Ms B 
in moving this claim forward, including emptying her house of her possessions, Ms B 
indicating she wasnt going  to allow access to her house until an interim payment 
was made and not wanting contractors to use her electricity for dehumidifiers. But I 
think some  of the difficulties should be viewed in the context of Ms B being a 
vulnerable consumer. I think its clear this claim was considerably more complicated 
than it might have been if Ms B wasnt vulnerable.  And its possible Ms B potentially  
didnt understand  the disadvantage she was placing herself at by not dealing with the 
claim differently and more  efficiently.
Theres nothing to suggest any of the delays in 2018  were the fault of LV. And I think its fair 
to say in many circumstances I would  conclude that some of the delays in 2018 were  
avoidable and the responsibility  of Ms B. But, given the particular circumstances of this 
complaint and Ms Bs own circumstances as a vulnerable customer,  I think  the fair and 
reasonable approach here is for LV to pay all alternative accommodation costs for 2018, 
subject to the remaining terms of the policy. 
When LV responded to the second  provisional  decision, it outlined the reasons - which  Ive 
summarised in the background section  of this decision - why it thought  a fairer approach 
would be for it to pay 50% of the alternative  accommodation costs,  or £10,000 - whichever is 
greater. And for Ms B to also arrange to have the contents of her property returned to her by 
a date to be agreed, in order to avoid  further  increasing the already  very high storage costs 
LV has incurred. 
Ive taken on board everything that LV had said.  And I agree  that the alternative 
accommodation and storage costs  are far higher than they might  normally be, given the 
nature of the claim.  But I take the view that a consumer  with Ms Bs particular vulnerabilities  
is always going to take more time than other consumers might to accept and take action in 
relation to issues that might impact on how quickly a claim is settled. The action taken  by 
Ms B in relation to arranging for repairs to be carried out to her roof are a case  in point. Ms B 
was slow to accept that the repairs  were  her responsibility and even  made a formal 
complaint to LV that it addressed at the end of October 2017.  She fought  against completing 
them at her expense  because she thought the contractors appointed by LV had caused the 
damage to her roof. Ive already said Im satisfied thats not the case. But how Ms B handled 
this issue is likely to have  been affected by her particular vulnerabilities and circumstances. 
And so I still take the view that the fair and reasonable approach here is for LV to cover all 
alternative accommodation costs for 2018, subject  to the remaining terms of the policy. 
I know LV has said the combined policy limit for Ms Bs alternative accommodation costs is 
£50,000, but I think LV needs to calculate  the combined policy limit from the relevant  date in 
January 2017  that Ms B moved out of her home,  to the relevant date in July 2019 that Ms B 
was told she was now expected to move  back into her home. This means the combined  
policy limit is likely to exceed £60,000. 
When Ms B responded to the first provisional  decision, she provided  receipts  for alternative 
accommodation costs.  This service  has forwarded  these to LV for it to consider. If Ms B isnt 
able to find some of the receipts until she takes  her possessions out of storage, then these 
can be forwarded to LV at a later date.  
Ref: DRN786727914Ive then looked at whether Ms Bs house was habitable in July 2019, once the work had 
been completed and LV had written  to her to outline  its position,  and whether she should 
have moved back into it at that stage.  
LV and Ms B disagree about this and so LV agreed  in December 2019 to fund an 
independent surveyors  report  with a view to assessing whether the work required under the 
claim has been completed to a satisfactory  level. Ms B was allowed to choose the surveyor 
and provided the surveyor  with a list of what work she thought  still needed to be carried out 
on the house. 
I think its important to point out here that the surveyors report is seen  as an expert piece of 
evidence and I think all parties,  including this service, can take into account the conclusions 
reached on the basis they are most likely  to be correct. 
The survey  was carried out in around July 2020  following Covid-19 related delays  and 
the report was produced  in August 2020. Four main  issues were addressed in the report. 
These were: 
The scope of the repairs.
The quality of the work undertaken by LV.
Whether an electrical or gas certificate  is required.
The ability to live in the property.
I know that Ms B and LV have both seen the report, so I dont intend to repeat what was said 
in great  detail. But, to summarise, the report concluded: 
Some of the work, such  as holes above skirting  boards, will take very little time and 
effort to fix. 
Mould in the cupboard in one of the bedrooms might not be the result  of either 
escape of water  incidents. It could well have been  caused  by the property not being  
lived in for some  time.  
Mould on the ceiling of the hallway is likely to be the result of the property being 
unoccupied and can easily be washed down. 
Any preservatives used to treat against timber decay and beetle infestation are 
usually hazardous, but the property will usually be safe for occupation after a few 
days. 
Most  of the roof area has a good  level of glass insulation   about 250mm  thickness 
or more. Probably about a quarter of the area of the roof space does need upgrading. 
A certificate in the loft area indicates  the insulation  was fitted in 2003 at the same  
thickness. 
Although not tested,  the sealing of the floor and walls  and sanitary ware in the wet 
room seemed to be in good order. 
If the original sanitary ware, for example the toilet and basin, were for disabled  use 
then the present sanitary ware  should be exchanged. 
The mould on the inside of the cupboard door in the wet room  can be washed off.
The overflow pipe is not connected  to the WC but can easily  be reconnected.  
The body  drier was not working  but this might be because  of an isolator  switch.  This 
can easily be checked by the contractor. 
A number of radiators  have been  replaced,  following the escape  of water in March 
2019. The size of the radiators is clearly different to the original fitting.  This is not 
unusual as modern  radiators are smaller than old radiators. This means  original wall 
Ref: DRN786727915decorations often need to be renewed. In this case,  there is bare plaster  visible 
behind a radiator.  
The garden was full of rubbish but there  was little evidence  of builders materials. 
In general there are no obvious  signs of unsatisfactory paintwork. 
Looking at whether  the property is habitable,  the various photographs supplied by the 
loss adjuster would  suggest the property  is in better  condition  now than it was when 
the photographs were taken. Ideally,  in order for the property to be habitable it would  
need to be thoroughly  cleaned, have new carpets laid and new decorations in several 
rooms. But some of the works  that need  to be done to make it habitable are not 
related to either escape of water. 
There is an electrical certificate. A gas certificate is not needed.  
The room  that Ms B is most concerned about  is the wet room. She said she needs a raised  
toilet and that the toilet  in place before the escape  of water was on a raised  plinth. This 
means the toilet in place  now is not suitable for her needs. So Ive considered whether this 
means the house was uninhabitable. 
Although LV has installed a toilet thats  different to the one needed by Ms B, I dont think it 
would be fair to say this made the property completely uninhabitable. I think temporary 
arrangements could have been  put in place,  like using a raised toilet  seat, that would have 
made the toilet suitable for Ms Bs needs.  Arrangements could then have been made for a 
permanent raised  toilet  to be put in place, which is a job that can be completed relatively 
quickly and Ms B could  still live in the property while this is done.  
I know that the surveyor said the upright  body  dryer was also not working,  but I dont think  
that not having this would mean the house  is uninhabitable. I say this because  its my 
understanding Ms B doesnt have a body dryer now, so while I dont doubt its usefulness,  
Ms B is able to function without it. And, from what the surveyor has said,  it might have been 
possible to have this looked at and repaired relatively quickly. 
Looking at the house more generally,  its important for Ms B to understand that some  of the 
issues that shes not happy about in relation to her home arent issues that relate to either 
escape of water incidents. For example,  the condition of the decoration  in the lounge,  the 
paper coming away from the ceiling in the utility room and the fact that rooms not damaged  
by the escape of water need  to be thoroughly  cleaned. It is not for LV to fix problems that 
were not caused  by the escape  of water. When Ms B responded to the provisional decision,  
she provided quotes for work to the rooms that werent affected  by the claim. The quote  
included the cost of flooring throughout the whole property, a new fitted kitchen and treating 
surface mould. But while I understand that Ms B is likely to be keen for her property  to be in 
good condition  before she moves  home,  LV are only responsible  for those parts of the 
property affected  by the two escapes of water.  So Ms B will need to fund other  work  herself. 
While the surveyor identified a number of snagging issues,  such as the holes in the wall 
above the skirting  board  in one of the bedrooms and mould in the wet room  cupboard,  these 
are minor issues that can be resolved after Ms B moves back  into the property. And minor 
issues like these should not have prevented her from moving back  into the property. 
What all of the above  means is that although I acknowledge that some issues were still 
outstanding, Im satisfied  Ms Bs house was habitable following completion  of the repair  
works by LV in 2019. 
Ref: DRN786727916However, there were  unavoidable delays in 2020   lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic - that meant it took longer  than expected  for the surveyor  to inspect  the property 
and produce his report. Neither LV nor Ms B are responsible for this delay. I asked LV for its 
comments about the stand it takes in relation to unavoidable delays such  as this one. 
LV responded and said it is not its responsibility to cover costs incurred post July 2019, as 
its been accepted Ms Bs home was habitable from that point onwards. It said if Ms B had 
moved back to her home  before March 2020,  she would not have needed to spend  money  
on alternative accommodation during this period.  
While I think its incredibly unfortunate that the surveyors  report was unavoidably delayed,  I 
take the view that if Ms B had moved back home in July 2019 then the additional alternative 
accommodation costs  could have been avoided. 
When LV responded to the first provisional decision it said the following  alternative 
accommodation costs  had been  paid:  
May 2018 - £5,000 non-specific interim  payment against any unsubstantiated 
accommodation costs  incurred to that date. 
January 2019   Bed & Breakfast (B&B)  payment of £495 covering the period 
between 24 January 2017 and 3 February 2017.  
January 2019   Deposit of £600 and referencing fee of £120 (flat)
January 2019  - £2,736 for rental costs (flat)
January 2019  - £4,800 for rental costs (flat) 
March 2019  - £1,020 B&B accommodation  covering 22 March 2019  to 29 March 
2019 and 31 March 2019. Also 1 April 2019  to 5 April 2019  and 9 April 2019 to 11 
April 2019. This includes  a £10 per day disturbance  allowance.  
April 2019 - £600 B&B covering 30 March 2019,  6 April 2019 to 8 April 2019. In 
addition, 13 April 2019 to 18 April 2019,  including £10 per day disturbance  allowance.   
June 2019  - £3,720 covering 19 April 2019  to 19 June 2019  including  £10 per day 
disturbance allowance. 
September 2019 - £760 B&B covering 20 June 2019 to 23 July 2019  including £10 
per day disturbance allowance.
When Ms B responded to the provisional decision she provided  receipts  for alternative  
accommodation and these have been  forwarded to LV so that the amount owed to her for 
alternative accommodation costs incurred between  23 January 2017  and July 2019 can be 
worked out, to see if any money is owed to Ms B after the amounts already paid by LV are 
deducted. 
Ms B also said she incurred costs when  moving  to different alternative accommodation 
locations. LV said it has never been presented with information about these costs.  If Ms B is 
able to provide  information to show reasonable costs were incurred in moving between  
locations up to the end of July 2019, then LV should  reimburse these costs, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy.  
After looking at the surveyors report, LV offered a further cash settlement to Ms B for the 
following items: 
Carpets - £795.15 
Pendant light fittings - £100
Ref: DRN786727917Carbon/smoke detectors - £50
Toilet  - £500
Body drier - £100
Ms B didnt accept this offer.  In particular, Ms B said the amount offered for carpets would 
not cover  the cost of carpeting the hall and bedroom that were affected by the first escape  of 
water. I asked Ms B to consider getting a quote  for carpets. 
When she responded to the provisional  decision,  Ms B provided a quote for the cost of 
carpeting the areas affected by the initial escape of water  as follows:  
Hallway  3m x 6.8m  - £1,460 
Front bedroom   4m x 4.2m - £1,210
The quote  for carpeting is significantly  higher than the amount offered by LV, and I am also 
aware that Ms B has only provided  one quote. But I have checked  the cost online with 
another retailer, using  the same dimensions and brand of carpet and the quote was really  
very close to that provided by Ms B. So I take the view that LV should pay the above  
amounts towards  the cost of carpeting  the hall and front bedroom.  
Ms B also provided a quote  for having the toilet and basin in her bathroom removed and 
replaced with sanitary ware more suitable  for her needs. Ive taken Ms Bs needs  into 
consideration and also that the independent  surveyor suggested that the current  sanitary 
ware should  be replaced, if what was in place originally was designed for disabled use. So 
LV should  pay for the toilet and basin to be replaced. The quote is as follows:  
Remove toilet and basin £115
Supply and fit Doc M pack  toilet and basin £675
Kennelling costs 
Ms Bs policy covers  kennelling costs for domestic pets. Ms B said it wasnt possible for her 
to take her two cats with her, as she initially moved into a hotel. So both cats were placed in 
a cattery. 
Both LV and Ms B provided  me with further  information about kennelling costs incurred by 
Ms B after the provisional decision was issued. 
Ms B provided a receipt from the kennels  showing that she paid the following:
Two cats housed between 31 January 2017 and 31 January 2019 at a cost of £14 
per day  total cost £10,220
Two cats housed between 1 February  2019  and 6 November 2019 at a cost of £16 
per day  total cost £4,368
One cat housed between 7 November  2019  and 30 June 2020 at a cost of £8 per 
day  total cost £1,880. 
LV confirmed its already reimbursed Ms B for the following  kennelling fees: 
£4,676 included in the payment of £10,453.37 made on 21 January 2019 and 
covering the period from 15 June 2017  to 27 December 2017.
Ref: DRN786727918£976 made on 5 April 2019,  covering April and May 2019. 
As outlined  above,  Ive said that LV should  pay all alternative accommodation costs up to 
and including  July 2019. And as kennelling costs  are associated accommodation costs, 
these should be covered  during the same period. So I think LV should calculate how much 
Ms B has paid in kennelling costs from the time she moved out of her home up to and 
including July 2019. It can deduct what it has already paid to Ms B and if there is any 
outstanding balance, this should be reimbursed,  subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
Utility bills, council tax and other cost of living bills
Ms B said she has incurred a number  of additional living  costs  since  moving into alternative  
accommodation. 
Ms B said she was paying council tax on her own property until it was accepted as being 
uninhabitable by her local council. Ms B said she was also paying council tax in alternative 
accommodation at the same  time.  I understand from Ms B that the council have refused to 
refund any council tax payments made before her home was accepted by the council as 
uninhabitable, so I need to consider  whether Ms B should be reimbursed  for any council tax 
payments made by her after she moved into alternative accommodation.  
I know that Ms B had asked LV to provide her with a letter that she could give to the council 
to let them know her house was uninhabitable  and that LV were reluctant to do this initially, 
as it had no evidence  that Ms B had actually  moved  out of her property. 
When I issued the first provisional decision,  I said I needed more information about  whether 
LV had already made any payments  towards  council tax, and information from Ms B about 
when she was and wasnt charged  council tax up until her local council  said her home was 
uninhabitable. 
Ms B provided council  tax bills for her own home  and two other  properties  that shes  lived in 
since the escape of water. And LV provided information about how much money it had paid 
so far towards council  tax. 
If the escape of water  hadnt happened, then Ms B would have been paying  council tax on 
her own home in the usual way. So the view I take is that Ms B shouldnt be put in a position 
where shes paying more council tax than she would have paid if she hadnt needed to leave 
her home. 
The council tax bills provided by Ms B show that her home is in Property Valuation Band C 
and that she is eligible  for a single occupier discount and disabled reduction. 
If Ms B can show that she has paid more than the council  tax that would have  been  owed on 
her own home if she had remained in it, then LV should reimburse her for the difference. It 
might be that Ms B will need to approach her local council again  and ask it to calculate how 
much she would have  paid on her own home if she had remained in it, taking into account 
the various discounts shes entitled  to. Ms B can then submit  this information to LV, along 
with evidence of how much council tax shes actually paid. If theres  then evidence  to 
suggest Ms B has paid more in council tax then she would have paid if she had remained in 
her own home, then LV should  arrange  a reimbursement of this amount. 
Ref: DRN786727919LV has said its already  made the following payments towards council tax and these 
amounts should  be deducted from any amounts that may be owed to Ms B: 
£633.32 in relation  to Ms Bs home  address  made up of seven months at £90.47 
per month for the period from 2 September 2017 to 31 March 2018.  
£361.88 in relation  to one of the alternative accommodation addresses  made up of 
four months at £90.47  for the period from 2 September 2017 and 31 December 2017. 
Ms B has also asked for laundry costs; the cost of travelling by cab to and from her property; 
more expensive phone package charges; the cost of removing hazardous rubbish and 
whether woodwork treatment that she paid for in 2018 should be undertaken again and paid 
for by LV. I asked Ms B to provide me with more information about these issues  so that I 
could consider each one. 
After I issued the first provisional decision,  Ms B sent me a copy of an invoice showing that 
wood boring insect treatment was carried  out at her home in August 2018. I can see this has 
a thirty-year guarantee. I know that Ms B wanted me to comment  on whether this treatment 
should be carried out again  and paid for by LV, but the treatment was carried out around 18 
months after the first escape of water  and so I cant see any reason why, even if it needed to 
be carried out again, that it would  be paid for by LV. If Ms B is concerned about the impact 
the second, and much less extensive, escape of water might have had on the guarantee that 
came with the treatment,  then she should contact the treatment  provider and raise  her 
concerns with them. 
I dont have enough specific information  from Ms B to consider the other expenses, 
mentioned above,  that she wanted  me to look at. Its possible that Ms B might find receipts 
or other relevant information about  these expenses once shes taken her possessions  out of 
storage. If Ms B does find these receipts at a later date then she should  send them to LV 
and LV should consider  whether they are reasonable, additional costs that have been 
incurred by Ms B as a result of the claim. And if thats the case, then LV should refund the 
costs to Ms B, taking into consideration that it has already  made payments towards electric 
and water expenses  in January 2019.  And also taking into consideration that LV is only 
required to cover alternative accommodation and associated costs up to the date the work 
on Ms Bs home was completed in July 2019. 
Contents
I can see that the volume of possessions in Ms Bs home made it difficult  for assessments 
and repairs of the property to be carried out during the course of the claim. 
In May 2017  LVs claim  handlers  wrote  to Ms B and advised her that liability would not be 
accepted and alternative accommodation costs would be at her own expense if her 
possessions were not removed, to allow  the necessary work to be carried  out. 
LV and Ms B spoke  on 16 May 2017 about disposing of any damaged items, putting what 
items they could into storage or into rooms that werent affected by the escape  of water.  In 
June 2017 LVs contractors filled up several skips with BER items and disposed  of these. A 
list was kept of the items disposed of. Remaining  items were either put into rooms in the 
property where no work needed to be carried out or were boxed up and put into storage. 
Ref: DRN786727920When LV completed  the work on Ms Bs property, it offered to pay £3,000  to cover the cost 
of contents damaged following the escape  of water. I believe Ms B has not accepted this 
offer. 
I know that Ms B has said there  are some  valuable pieces of jewellery and pottery that she 
can no longer find, as well as a number of sentimental and personal  items. And she would 
like LV to pay for these.  Having seen the BER list drawn up by LVs contractors, I can see 
that there  arent  any items  of jewellery or pottery on it. So Im satisfied its unlikely  these 
items were put in the skip and disposed of. These items might  well be in the 100 or so boxes 
that were put into storage. 
The BER list was largely made up of around 60 paperback and hardback books, a number of 
VHS and DVDs, items of clothing  and shoes and household items including curtains  and bed 
linen. When she responded to the provisional decision,  Ms B said she had previously given 
LV receipts to show  that she owned  more than £9,000 of books. And she wanted LV to 
refund her the cost of these. But I can only ask LV to refund the cost of books that have 
been either destroyed or damaged by the leak. The BER list shows  the books that were 
damaged and these dont  amount to anywhere close to that figure.  It could well be that many  
of the books are in storage. 
As the claim progressed, other larger items were put into storage. I believe this happened 
when a radiator  and floorboards needed  to be replaced in one of the bedrooms that hadnt 
initially been  earmarked for work,  as it wasnt damaged by the first escape of water. When 
Ms B responded to the first provisional decision,  she raised concerns about the whereabouts 
of her furniture and provided  a list of furniture that she thought  might  be missing.
After I issued the second provisional decision, LV provided me with an inventory of items 
placed into storage  by its contractors in March 2019. And I can see that this includes some 
of the items Ms B raised concerns about  including disabled assisted chairs, bed bases and 
mattresses. There are also a large number of books, electrical items, furniture and 
ornaments. I can see that the inventory  hasnt  been signed by Ms B or a representative as 
no one was available at the time to sign the paperwork. So, from what I can see, those of 
Ms Bs possessions that arent on the BER list are most likely in storage.  
Nonetheless, given  the concerns raised by Ms B, I think its fair to give her the opportunity, 
after shes  removed her possessions from storage,  to check  whether any of the items  in 
storage are damaged or missing. And if its the case that items are damaged  or missing,  
then Ms B can present this information to LV as a new complaint. LV should be given the 
appropriate amount  of time to deal with it and if Ms B remains unhappy, she can bring it to 
this service as a new complaint. 
So based  on the information  available, Im satisfied the £3,000 offered by LV to cover  the 
cost of the damaged items disposed of seems fair. But Ms B should be allowed to raise  any 
concerns she has about additional missing or damaged items with LV once shes  had the 
chance to look through  her possessions in storage.  
I know that Ms B is aggrieved that the skip with the items to be disposed of was taken away  
before she had an opportunity to go through it and decide if she wanted to keep any of the 
items listed as BER. I dont doubt  this was distressing  for her. But these items cant  be 
returned at this stage and the only redress is for the contents claim to be paid,  which LV has 
offered to do. 
Ref: DRN786727921I can see that LV has agreed to cover  some of the cost of storing Ms Bs possessions. And it 
wrote to Ms B in July 2019  letting her know that she should remove the remaining items from 
storage or cover the cost herself, now that the work on her property was complete. As far as 
I am aware,  Ms B has not removed the items  from storage. When I issued the first 
provisional decision, I asked for more information about storage  costs.  
When LV responded to the first provisional decision,  it provided  the following breakdown of 
payments it had already made  to Ms B for the costs she has incurred in storing  her 
possessions;
A payment of £10,453.37 made  on 21 January 2019 included  an amount of £1,134  
towards storage  costs  for the period covering 15 June  2017 to 28 December 2017. 
This was seven, four-week periods at £162 per week. Also included  was a payment 
of £360 towards  removal costs.  
LV said when it receives  documentary evidence showing the storage costs  incurred 
by Ms B, it will reimburse from 23 January 2017  to 31 December  2017  and 18 
February 2019 to 28 July 2019.  
When Ms B responded to the first provisional  decision  she provided information  about how 
much shes  paid to date for storage costs and these have been  forwarded to LV. 
When LV responded to the first provisional decision it also provided information about  the 
storage costs it has been paying directly to its own supplier   separate to the costs  Ms B has 
been paying her own storage provider. It said as a consequence of Ms B not moving back  to 
her home in July 2019, it has incurred over £20,000  in storage costs, up to September 2020. 
And its awaiting a further invoice  from its suppliers for the period from September 2020 to 
the current date.  
LV also said it previously provided  Ms B with options  regarding  the return of her property, 
including an agreement  to fund the staged  return of possessions, due to the volume of items 
in storage. It said it indicated that if Ms B did not respond, it would have no alternative but to 
off-set continued storage costs from any other payment due to Ms B. LV said If Ms B now 
assists with the return or disposal of her property, as a gesture to try and find a way forward,  
it will meet the storage  costs to the end of January 2021 and not off-set  these costs  from 
final payments due to Ms B. It also said this on-going storage expense cannot  be met for a 
further extended period. 
I take the view that LV has been  very reasonable here in offering to cover  the storage costs  
incurred by its own supplier up until the end of January 2021. While I cant  ask Ms B to take 
a particular course of action in relation to the items in storage, my understanding  is that her 
home is virtually empty at this stage  and I would encourage her to take steps to move  her 
possessions back into her home as soon  as she can, in order  to avoid paying  any more  than 
the storage costs  she has already  incurred.  
In relation to the storage costs Ms B has been  paying for, I take the view that LV should 
cover these storage  costs  up to and including October 2019. Ms Bs home  was ready for her 
to move into in July 2019 and so I dont think it would be fair to ask LV to cover storage costs  
after this point. Except that Ms B would have needed some additional time, given the volume  
of her possessions and her health  issues, to arrange  for items in storage  to be moved back 
into her home. So this is why I am asking LV to cover Ms Bs own storage costs up until the 
end of October 2019, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.  
Ref: DRN786727922Second escape  of water treated as a second claim in 2019
While work  was being carried out on Ms Bs property in 2019, LVs contractors  said they 
noticed the carpet in bedroom  two, which is one of the bedrooms they werent working on, 
was wet. When they looked  into this, they decided that the floorboards needed to be 
replaced, as did the radiator. LV accepted this work as a further claim, as it said the damage 
was not caused by the initial water leak. It said the cost of replacing the carpet  was 
considered to be £350 and as the policy  excess for this claim is £350,  no payment was due 
from Ms B. 
Ms B doesnt think its fair that this was treated as a separate  claim as she is concerned  that 
the second escape of water was caused  by LVs contractors while they were  carrying  out 
other work on the property. 
When I issued the provisional decision,  I asked LV to provide  any claim notes or other 
information in relation  to the leak in 2019 so that I could see whether  LV acted fairly when it 
treated this as a second claim. This was to ensure Ms B hadnt been placed at a 
disadvantage by having to pay a second  excess.
 
The information provided by LV says that the leak in the middle bedroom seems  to have 
happened as a result  of a corroded  radiator. The contractors working  on the property at the 
time thought  the radiator had most likely been leaking for some time before it was 
discovered. LV agreed that the contractors should  replace the radiator, replace the affected 
floorboards and the affected  joists  underneath. LV decided not to remove the built-in 
cupboard in order to replace the joists and floorboards underneath  it as this would cause 
damage to the artex  ceiling  and the general  room decoration. Instead the contractors  cut 
around the bottom of the cupboard and attempted to re-support it with additional noggins  
beneath the area. The carpet and underlay  were disposed of, and LV assessed the cost of 
having these replaced at £350. 
I think LV acted fairly when it treated the radiator  leak as a separate claim.  I know that Ms B 
is concerned the damage was caused by the contractors, but the contractors werent  
working in that room.  So Im satisfied on balance, that the damage to the carpets and 
floorboards was most likely caused  by a corroded  radiator that had been leaking for some  
time and so was not connected  to the 2017  escape of water  claim. 
Ive looked at how LV dealt with the claim and I dont think it offered enough for Ms B to 
replace the carpets and underlay  in the room.  When Ms B responded to the provisional 
decision, she provided a quote  that shows it will cost her £720  to have this done.   
Ms B also submitted a quote for having  the built-in cupboard in this room  taken out and 
replaced. When LV first assessed  this claim in 2019,  it didnt address the question of 
whether the fitted wardrobe was in any way damaged as a result of the radiator leak and so 
whether it needed  to be replaced or repaired.  So Ive considered this now.  
Ive looked at the photographs provided  by the surveyor who visited Ms Bs property in 
July 2020 and I think these show water stains,  where water  has penetrated the cupboard  
sides and door from below. And this is in the area were the carpets and floorboards were 
most likely wet for a lengthy period of time and the carpets  were  most likely resting against 
this part of the cupboard. 
Ref: DRN786727923I contacted LV and outlined why I thought it should  pay £720 towards the cost of replacing 
the carpet and £2,250 towards  the cost of replacing  the fitted cupboard,  less the £350 
excess. LV has agreed to pay both. 
I take the view that LV should also pay an amount  of £150 towards the cost of having the 
small remaining section of wet and damaged floorboards,  underneath the existing fitted  
cupboard, replaced  and having the holes above the skirting, that were most likely caused  
when the skirting was levered off, filled in and sanded back. I think  its fair to ask LV to pay 
an additional  £100 so that any damage  caused  to the wall or ceiling in the bedroom when 
the fitted wardrobe is removed can be made good.  
Losing her key 
Ms B said she provided LV with keys back in 2017  that it lost and Ms B said she incurred 
costs when she had replacement locks fitted. 
I can see that in its final response letter to Ms B in October 2017, LV said it was willing  to 
cover the costs Ms B incurred when  the keys to the property were  lost in the post. It said it 
didnt receive an answer to the letter sent by its contractors to Ms B about this in September 
2017. 
So, from what I can see, LV has offered to reimburse  the cost of having the locks replaced,  
but Ms B first of all needs to provide  LV with documentation that shows exactly  what  cost 
she incurred when this was done.    
When I issued the provisional decision,  I asked Ms B to provide proof that the locks were  
changed and proof of the costs incurred.  Ms B hasnt  provided this yet. It might well be the 
case that the receipt for the work  is in storage with the rest of Ms Bs possessions at this 
point in time. So I think that as long as Ms B can find evidence at some stage that she had 
this work  carried out, LV should reimburse  her for the costs she incurred in replacing the 
locks in 2017. 
Other issues
Ms B raised other issues with the property. 
Ms B said the loft insulation is too narrow and is not a like for like replacement. However, the 
independent surveyors  report  from August  2020 indicates that the replacement insulation  is 
the same  width  250mm  as the insulation that was put into the attic in 2003. So Im not 
asking LV to take any further action  in relation to the attic insulation.  
Ms B said LV damaged  her front door. LV has said they are willing  to replace the door.  They 
have offered a cash settlement of £431.78, inclusive of VAT, labour  and disposal of the old 
door. I think  this is a reasonable amount and so Im not asking LV to do any more in relation 
to the front door. 
Ms B said her garden is still full of rubbish and she wants LV to remove this. But I can see 
that while the independent  surveyor agreed  the garden does have quite a lot of rubbish in it, 
this doesnt appear  to be related to building work.  And if its not related to the building work 
then it wouldnt be fair to ask LV to remove it. So Im not asking LV to take any further action 
in relation to the rubbish  in the front garden. 
Ref: DRN786727924Ms B also raised concerns about  the size of one of the replacement radiators in her home. 
Its smaller than the original radiator and so bare plaster is now exposed.  I can see that the 
surveyor mentioned  this in his report. I think in this instance it would be fair for LV to 
contribute something towards the cost of putting this right. But I dont  think  it needs to pay 
the total cost of having this room  redecorated. I can see there is damage to the wallpaper in 
other parts of the room  and so it was always going to be the case that Ms B would have 
needed to get this room  redecorated,  at her own expense, if she was concerned about 
missing sections of wallpaper. So I think LV should  contribute £100 towards the cost of 
redecorating this room. 
Im aware that Ms B had concerns about  the renewal of her home  insurance  policy  in 
2019/2020. And this included concerns about  home emergency and legal cover being  
removed. When Ms B responded to the provisional  decision, she asked why this hadnt been  
addressed. However,  I am dealing only with the claim made in 2017, the home  emergency  
call out and the further leak in 2019.  If Ms B wants this service  to look into how LV have 
dealt with the renewal  of her policy, then she will need to make a separate complaint to LV in 
the usual way. And if she is unhappy with the response she receives, she can bring  it to this 
service as a separate complaint. 
When Ms B responded to the first provisional  decision, she said the pipes that originally 
leaked are leaking  again. But I am not addressing that as part of this decision.  Im satisfied 
that the pipe did not continue to leak when LVs contractors were working in Ms Bs home. 
And although the water was turned off when  the surveyor visited  the property, he did not 
note any new water damage after the work  was completed. So Im satisfied this is most  likely 
a new leak and Ms B should make a new claim  to LV. I realise  that the builder who recently 
provided Ms B with a quote for extensive  works  said the property was uninhabitable. But Im 
satisfied he made that assessment because of the new leak and the damage it was causing 
and the property potentially being uninhabitable now is not linked to the claim being dealt 
with in this decision. 
Putting things  right
The following  are the steps I require LV to take to put things right in relation to Ms Bs 
complaint, subject to the remaining terms of Ms Bs policy: 
Pay Ms B a further  £175 (in addition to the £25 already paid)  for the error made when 
dealing with the home emergency call out. 
Pay alternative accommodation costs up to and including July 2019.  
Cover kennelling costs up to and including  July 2019. 
Cover council tax paid by Ms B that is over and above what  she would have paid if she had 
been able to remain in her home. 
Pay, at a later point if necessary, utility expenses incurred by Ms B that are over and above 
those she would have  incurred if she had been able to remain in her home, up to and 
including July 2019. 
Pay for a replacement door to the value  of £431.78.   
Pay the following  amounts outlined by LV in August 2020, which were:
Ref: DRN786727925Pendant light fittings - £100
Carbon/smoke detectors - £50
Body drier - £100
Pay a total of £2,670  for hallway and front bedroom  carpets. 
Pay a total of £3,220  in relation to the second  claim in March 2019, less the £350 excess.
Pay a total of £790 towards having  an appropriate  toilet and basin fitted.
Pay the £3,000 contents settlement  to Ms B. But Ms B should be allowed to raise  any 
concerns she has about additional missing or damaged items with LV once shes  had the 
chance to look through  her possessions in storage.  And this should, if necessary, be dealt 
with as a new complaint.  
Cover the cost of storage  fees incurred by its own supplier up until January 2021.
Cover the cost of other storage fees incurred  by Ms B up to the end of October 2019.  
Pay for the locks  that needed  to be replaced  at Ms Bs home, subject  to Ms B providing proof 
of the cost incurred  by her. 
Pay an amount of £100 towards redecorating  one of the bedrooms.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited to carry out 
the actions outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7867279