K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained to us that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax,  mis-sold 
them a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  in or around November 2000.
They say they didnt know they had the policy and didnt need it.  
Background
Mr and Mrs B bought the MPPI to go with a mortgage which  they were taking out. Only Mr B 
had the policy,  which covered him for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that the policy had been  mis-sold.  Because  Mr and Mrs B 
disagree, their complaint  has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
My decision  is therefore only about the mis-sale  part of Mr and Mrs Bs MPPI complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen it looks as if Mr and Mrs B took out the MPPI at a meeting. And BoS 
has agreed that made it a recommendation that they should buy the cover. So that means 
Ive looked at most likely  what happened on the assumption that BoS had to make  sure that 
the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs situation  and that the information it gave them was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the MPPI  was added to their mortgage without their knowledge. But 
Ive seen from the mortgage  application form they completed in November 2000  that they 
indicated they wanted to buy the policy at that time.  They  did this by signing and dating a 
section of the form headed Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment Insurance directly below 
the words Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance.  Ive also 
kept in mind that they also had to sign the form twice again,  to confirm how they wanted their 
mortgage payments  to be made and also below  a declaration at the end of the form. 
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs B signed a separate MPPI application form. Although  it looks 
like this form was filled in for them on a computer, Mr B would have had to answer a number 
of questions about his circumstances before he signed the form. 
Taking all this into account, I havent seen anything to make me think that BoS presented the 
policy to Mr and Mrs B in such a way that they wouldve  thought they had to buy it. I think  its 
more likely that BoS did enough  to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice 
about whether  to buy the policy. 
Ive next looked to see if theres anything else that makes me think that BoS might have 
mis-sold the policy. 
Ref: DRN79355952Ive looked at the MPPI policy terms and cant see that Mr B wouldve been adversely 
affected by any of the main policy terms or exclusions. 
Ive then looked at Mr and Mrs Bs personal  situation. Mr B told us that he was only entitled 
to benefits from his employer if he couldnt  work  of 6 months  at full pay followed by 6 months 
at half pay. Mr and Mrs B also suggested they had some limited  financial resources  if they 
needed it. Given that the policy would  provide  cover  for up to 24 months if Mr B had made  a 
successful claim, I consider that the MPPI  would  have  been useful to them. It would provide 
a measure of reassurance that they would be able to continue  meeting their monthly 
mortgage repayments if Mr B wasnt able to work  or if he lost his job. Having taken on a 
significant financial commitment, Mr B would have suffered a large fall in income and so Mr 
and Mrs B could have been  put at risk of losing their home. So overall I think Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve found the PPI cover  useful. 
Following our adjudicators letter setting out his views, Mr and Mrs B sent us documentation  
to show that Mr B had taken out a pension  policy. Whilst I dont know the exact details of this 
policy, I can say that being  a different type of financial product it would be unlikely to assist 
him at a time when he was unable to work  or lost his job. 
I think BoS couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it had, I think  
Mr and Mrs B wouldve still bought it. I dont think the cost of the policy  was very different to 
what was available  elsewhere. The benefits  (as Ive said above)  seem suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances. The policy  cost £42.11  per month, with a monthly  benefit of £695. 
Ive seen that Mr B was briefly out of work  in 2008.  However, given that he was only without 
work for a relatively short time, I think its unlikely that hed be able to make a successful 
claim on the policy as it was less than the minimum of 30 days unemployment that is needed 
when making a claim on the policy. 
It follows that Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7935595