K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about end of contract charges when her agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited ended. 
background
Ms C was supplied with a car under a Personal  Contract Plan with VWFS. When the 
agreement came to an end in July 2017,  Ms C returned the car to the dealership.  She says 
the dealership  inspected  the car and advised her it was in good condition  and that she didnt 
need to do anything else. In particular, she says she wasnt  advised  that she needed to 
contact VWFS and ask it to arrange  collection of the car.
In November 2017 VWFS issued  a default notice  to Ms C because her agreement hadnt 
been settled. Ms C contacted VWFS and advised  it that she had returned the car to the 
dealership.
VWFS arranged  for the car to be collected  and inspected in December 2017. Following this, 
VWFS sent Ms C an invoice  for end of contract charges.
Ms C disputes the charges. She says the car was in good condition when she left it at the 
dealership and she shouldnt be responsible for damage which  she thinks occurred  after she 
handed the car back.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She looked  at the inspection report  and said the 
damage went beyond  acceptable wear and tear. She understood Ms Cs concerns that the 
damage might have occurred whilst the car was at the dealership but said there  was no 
evidence to suggest that this was the case.
Ms C didnt agree. She said she accepted that VWFS could charge for damage but said the 
issue for her was who was responsible and when  it had been incurred. She said the car had 
been inspected  and approved by the dealership when she returned  it and felt that 
responsibility for damage should be shared between herself, the dealership and VWFS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the finance agreement say that Ms C must return  the car in 
good condition  and that any damage which goes beyond acceptable wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  goes beyond  acceptable  wear  and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage which  VWFS says goes beyond  
acceptable wear  and tear. Taking  into account the nature of the damage and having regard 
to the BVLRA  guidelines, Im satisfied that the damage exceeds fair wear  and tear and that it 
is therefore fair for VWFS  to charge for it.
Ref: DRN78607092Ive taken into account what Ms C has said about  the car being in good condition  when she 
returned it to the dealership. Whilst I dont disbelieve Ms C when she says the dealership  
told her the car was approved,  I havent seen any evidence about the condition of the car 
when it was returned. Even if the dealership looked at the car and found it to be in 
acceptable condition,  this doesnt mean that there wasnt chargeable damage.  This is 
because its only the inspector appointed  by VWFS  who carries out an inspection in 
accordance with BVLRA guidelines. And its these guidelines which  establish  whether there  
is damage which goes  beyond acceptable wear  and tear, rather  than the dealerships  
opinion.
I appreciate that the car remained  at the dealership for several months before it was 
collected and inspected.  And I understand why Ms C feels that some of the damage  might 
have occurred during this time. However, theres no evidence to suggest that this was the 
case. Mrs C hasnt provided any evidence to show that the damage wasnt present  at the 
time she returned the car, so I cant safely  conclude that the damage was caused by the 
dealership.
Ive noted Ms Cs views  about who should  share  responsibility for the damage charges. I 
agree that the car was at the dealership  for a long time before  it was collected and I think  
that VWFS could have  provided Ms C with better  customer service in this respect. But in 
relation to the damage to the car, theres  no evidence to suggest that the dealership or 
VWFS caused this, so I cant  fairly hold either of them responsible.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Ms C hoped for. But based on what  Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the damage goes beyond acceptable  wear and tear and I havent  seen  
anything to suggest that the damage  was caused  after the car was handed back to the 
dealership. So I cant say that VWFS  has acted unreasonably in asking Ms C to pay the 
charges. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7860709