K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W through their representative  Mr D complain that British Gas Insurance  Limited  
didnt act fairly or reasonably  when dealing with a service under a home emergency policy.  
They want  a refund of all premiums paid with interest and compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a home emergency policy with British Gas,  which  covered many  aspects  
of their property, including their boiler. They bought their property  in 1990, which already had 
a boiler installed  and said that British  Gas serviced  it every year since. Mr D said that it didnt 
carry out the annual boiler  service correctly and the boiler was preventing Mr and Mrs W 
from selling  their property  as it had been  shut off by British Gas as it was dangerous. Mr D 
said he was experienced in gas; in his view,  not enough gas was being supplied  to operate 
safely and there were issues with the flue, pipework  and the boiler itself. He said British  Gas 
was at fault for not spotting  the dangers  during the yearly service. The boiler  was 
condemned in December  2017 when British Gas visited;  it had carried out work on it in 
August (when  other work at the property  was carried out) and previously had regularly 
carried out services or repairs  on the boiler  since 2009 (when the electronic records began).  
Mr D complained to British Gas. It said that at each service, its engineers had checked the 
gas readings and they were of an appropriate  level from a safety perspective.  It noted  that 
the carbon monoxide detector alarm  never went off in the property. But British  Gas thought it 
shouldve placed  warning notices on the boiler  (and warned Mr and Mrs W) as it was at risk 
earlier and offered £700 towards a new boiler installation by its engineers  or a refund of 
£237.90 (to cover the three years when it shouldve marked the boiler  as at risk at the 
annual service). It also pointed out that Mr and Mrs W had the full benefit of the policy over 
the years, it had advised them more than once to replace the boiler, and there wasnt any 
evidence that it had originally installed the boiler.  British Gas said that Mr and Mrs W hadnt 
told it that appliances were struggling  to work due to low gas pressure, and in any event this 
wasnt evidence of damage. It noted that there  was a limitation period to bring claims.
Mr D complained to us. British Gas noted that Mr and Mrs W had sold the property  to a 
relative of Mr D, and therefore no longer needed a new boiler. The investigators  view was 
that there  wasnt sufficient  evidence  that British Gas installed the boiler originally or that it 
was incorrectly installed. She noted that the boiler  was first marked as at risk in 2012 and 
declared dangerous in 2017, but nothing was recorded in the intervening  years   the 
investigator said that this wasnt  reasonable. The policy  included  annual servicing of the 
boiler (checking  that it was working  safely and as legally required under regulations)  and the 
investigator thought  four years  worth of annual service costs  should be refunded due to this 
failure, together with interest. 
The investigator didnt  think it would be fair or reasonable to refund more  as Mr and Mrs W 
had the benefit of the entire policy and there  was no evidence that the boiler  was dangerous 
from 1990. The investigator also awarded £300 compensation for the trouble and upset to 
Mr and Mrs W due to the failure to report on the state of the boiler between  2013 to 2016.
Mr D disagreed. He said the absence of integral parts of the boiler from installation  meant 
the boiler shouldve been marked  as at risk,  and Mr and Mrs W should  receive  all of their 
premiums back. Mr D believed that the central  heating system couldnt have worked as 
required. 
Ref: DRN74640392The investigator changed her view and said all annual service fees since 1990 (with interest) 
should be refunded by British Gas as she didnt think the required checks  were carried out 
(in the absence of evidence from the business). But she said issues  with the wider central 
heating system werent something an annual boiler service  would  deal with, though  it 
couldve been pointed  out to Mr and Mrs W. The investigator said nothing further should be 
refunded as Mr and Mrs W had the benefit  of the full policy and the recommended  
compensation for trouble  and upset shouldnt be increased.
Mr D still disagreed and said Mr and Mrs W had to use a microwave  to cook  due to the gas 
issues. He provided  more technical evidence  and evidence to support his personal  claim for 
compensation, but the investigator  didnt change her view.  British Gas didnt accept the 
investigators view either  as it said it only started servicing the boiler  in 2004 and there was 
no service undertaken  in 2013 or 2017. It said that the flue was marked as not up to current 
standards as early  as 2004 and repeatedly  afterwards and this was disclosed to 
Mr and Mrs W at the time. British Gas noted that no harm or damage occurred and the boiler  
failed due to its age.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Its worth noting that this service doesnt deal with health and safety  issues, is not a 
regulator and can only deal with complaints about regulated  financial products.  My role isnt 
to punish businesses if theyve made a mistake, but to put consumers back  into the position 
that they wouldve been in if the mistake  hadnt  been made.
The core of this complaint  is whether  British  Gas shouldve spotted the various issues with 
the boiler and the gas supply earlier than 2017. As theres no evidence supporting the 
argument that it installed the boiler  originally, which happened before Mr and Mrs W owned 
the property, I cant find British Gas responsible for any installation issues.
I note Mr D wants compensation for himself and the work hes done in bringing  this 
complaint. That isnt something this service would award. Mr D isnt a party  to this complaint 
and we dont award  payment for work  done  to bring  a complaint as it isnt necessary to have 
a representative  (though  Mr D isnt a professional representative). And as Mr and Mrs W no 
longer own the property,  it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for the costs of a new boiler  to be 
paid. Given the current circumstances,  the only appropriate compensation I could  award, if 
persuaded that its fair and reasonable to do so, would be compensation for trouble and 
upset suffered by Mr and Mrs W and a refund of all or some of the premium relating to 
servicing for the six years prior to the complaint  being brought  to British  Gas. Mr and Mrs W 
had the benefit of the rest of the policy.
I felt that it was necessary to investigate the complaint further. British Gas explained  that its 
electronic records only went  back to 2004. It also said that the boiler was manufactured 
without slip sockets and this hadnt  stopped the combustion gas test being performed as 
shown by the readings. British Gas confirmed the evidence supplied of the gas readings was 
the only evidence  available of those readings.
Ref: DRN74640393British Gas also said that when a boiler  was marked as at risk, it meant  there was a fault 
which in the future may cause danger. It said such boilers could  only be turned off with the 
consent of the customer (unlike the situation  when a boiler was condemned), and that the 
marking NTCS  (Not To Current Standards) wasnt a defect marking  and didnt have  to be 
recorded from 2015 onwards. This was a different position to that put forward by Mr D, but 
was supported by the information  I had from Gas Safe.
I invited British Gas to comment on the Gas Safe report on Mr and Mrs Ws boiler  (with 
Mr Ds consent), carried out five months after the property was sold by Mr and Mrs W. I 
noted that the Gas Safe report  said that much of the boiler and gas supply was NTCS. It also 
said the failure to fit a slip socket connector and the failure to adequately seal the flexible 
flue liner were at risk issues, while the corrosion  of the draught divertor and spillage on the 
heat exchanger were  dangerous (though  it couldnt  comment on when  that had happened,  
and the boiler  was condemned  the previous year for these reasons). 
British Gas comments on the Gas Safe report were limited. It noted that the report was 
carried out months after Mr and Mrs W no longer owned the property, and Mr and Mrs W 
never raised  any issues before the boiler was condemned.  British  Gas said that there was 
no evidence of ill-health  or financial loss.
The policy covered servicing. Theres no dispute that by 2017  the boiler in particular was 
dangerous and had to be condemned. The Gas Safe report agrees. But it cant  help me with 
the issue of when any of the dangerous issues arose  it could only report on the state of the 
boiler and other gas work five months after Mr and Mrs W sold the property to a relative of 
Mr D (which shows that the property was saleable),  and this was the year after the boiler 
was condemned.
The key question is whether British Gas acted fairly and reasonably before 2017 (when the 
boiler was condemned). Theres simply no objective evidence  as to when the dangerous 
issues found by Gas Safe happened. Corrosion happens over time but the time taken  varied 
from case to case. Ive borne in mind Mr Ds evidence, though  he didnt inspect the boiler 
during the entire relevant period. I have also noted  that Mr Ds relative  bought the property 
and he seems to be charging Mr and Mrs W money  to bring  their claim, despite not being a 
lawyer or accredited claims  management  company. British Gas visited in 2016 and I think  as 
it condemned the boiler in 2017, its more likely than not it wouldve done  so in 2016  if 
necessary. This means I think its more likely than not that the dangerous issues  arose  after 
the visit in 2016.
Theres no evidence of ill-health and no supportive  independent evidence of the claim that 
the gas supply  was too poor, or the cooker  was unusable as a result  while  Mr and Mrs W 
were living there. Mr and Mrs W dont  seem to have raised  this with British  Gas at the time, 
despite servicing and other visits. Gas Safe didnt say that there  was a real issue with the 
gas supply. And we dont  consider cases in light of what  mightve  happened;  we consider 
what did happen and theres no evidence of ill-health  or financial loss.
I have seen evidence  of all the visits by British  Gas, including readings of gas tests and I 
accept that its more likely than not that the tests and works  recorded were carried  out. I 
think its unlikely that the readings and job records were consistently  falsified. And I cant  
agree with the investigator that nothing was done between  2012 and 2017; the evidence 
shows that regular  servicing was carried  out and work undertaken. The boiler was marked 
as at risk in 2011 due to the flue bend,  not 2012.  I accept Gas Safes  position  that at risk 
doesnt mean that the boiler was dangerous at that time. 
Ref: DRN74640394Its evident that while the boiler was aged  and not in the best condition, theres simply no 
evidence on which I could  find that prior to 2017,  it was in such  a state that it shouldve  been 
condemned or that harm  was caused to Mr and Mrs W. Even the issue of the slip connector 
is at most an at risk issue  according  to Gas Safe,  and NTCS is a lower  level of issue 
(though British  Gas hasnt shown that it did mark the boiler as NTCS or told Mr and Mrs W 
about it). I thought  about whether Mr and Mrs W were told about the at risk issue; its 
standard practice to mention it (more  so than NTCS issues) but equally Mr and Mrs Ws 
case was that they couldnt afford  to change the boiler, so if this was a failing, it didnt make 
any practical difference and couldnt have  caused trouble and upset (as it wouldve been an 
unknown failing).
Having considered all the evidence, I think theres sufficient evidence for me to find that its 
more likely than not that servicing  was carried out to the required standard and British Gas 
hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  made comments after reading  my provisional decision.  I will address  the key 
relevant and pertinent responses. British  Gas said that there was evidence that it told 
Mr and Mrs W about the boiler being  NTCS and sent a list of dates where engineers  
recorded this. I was aware  of this when writing  my provisional decision, but I was not 
satisfied that it was sufficient evidence that Mr and Mrs W had been told about  the issue, or 
a notice had been placed on the boiler  confirming the NTCS rating/confirmation given to 
Mr and Mrs W in writing, as opposed  to British Gas noting it. 
But Mr D in response to my provisional decision provided a document dated  15 November 
2012 where British  Gas told Mr and Mrs W that the boiler was at risk and other  parts were 
NTCS. The section within the form that dealt with immediate  danger was uncompleted, 
which in my view suggests that the engineer believed  that there was no such danger.  What 
this document  shows is that British Gas did provide Mr and Mrs W with information about the 
boiler and it wasnt  immediately dangerous. Mr and Mrs W didnt replace the boiler.
Mr D said that my provisional decision was incorrect in a number of ways, particularly about 
slip sockets, the last date of the servicing  of the boiler and the manufacturers instructions. 
He felt that I didnt  understand  the complaint. Mr D also sent a number of emails and 
attachments to this service raising his concerns about my provisional findings. I have 
carefully considered  all the responses  from Mr D and the additional  evidence  he has 
submitted, but I cant agree with his position.  
For example, while Mr D says the boiler was last serviced in 2016, it was seen  again  by 
British Gas engineers  in 2017 and then condemned   my provisional decision does set this 
out. Mr D complains about the installation of the boiler, but I havent found  that British  Gas 
was responsible for this. Mr D says that its irrelevant who installed it, but I disagree   if 
British Gas didnt  install the boiler,  it isnt responsible for any failures by the installer. I 
appreciate Mr Ds position is that British Gas shouldve flagged  issues  with installation as 
part of the servicing of the boiler, but this still doesnt  mean  British  Gas is responsible for the 
installation.
Ref: DRN74640395Mr D sent evidence of a service in 1998,  but I was aware when writing  my provisional  
decision that Mr and Mrs W had such documentation. It doesnt  change the point that a 
refund of all premiums paid since 1998  wouldnt be appropriate as this is outside of the six 
year time period prior to raising a complaint  with British Gas as mentioned  in my earlier  view.
Mr D added that he felt that I was unhappy  that he was representing Mr and Mrs W in their 
complaint. However,  when dealing with a complaint and a claim for the costs of the 
representative to be paid by a financial business,  I do need to address why such a claim is 
not appropriate (as there is no need to appoint a representative to complain to this service 
and the representative is not the complainant). The sale of the property is also relevant to 
this case as Mr D initially  claimed that the boiler  issue prevented  a sale. I note Mr D now 
accepts that it is too late to prove  whether Mr and Mrs Ws health was affected  by the 
alleged failures  of British Gas.
I asked if British Gas had any comment to make  in response to Mr D and the evidence  he 
provided. It said that Mr Ds belief that the services couldnt have been properly carried  out 
due to the absence of a slip socket was incorrect and the heat exchange had been 
exchanged. British Gas pointed out that Mr D in his responses was referring  to the current 
standards in place, not those before 2019,  and noted that there  was no evidence  that 
Mr and Mrs W suffered  any harm.  Given that all the various engineers  who visited the 
property over the years who didnt  think the absence of a slip socket was a problem and Gas 
Safe also didnt think this was dangerous, as shown by its report, I think its more  likely than 
not that the slip socket absence didnt mean the boiler wasnt serviced as required by the 
standards in place at the time; certainly  theres  no evidence of Mr and Mrs W suffering  as a 
result.
Having reviewed the complaint and evidence again, I remain of the view as set out in my 
provisional decision. In particular, my findings remain  that the evidence showed  that it was 
more likely than not the boiler  became dangerous after British  Gas visit in 2016;  that theres 
insufficient evidence  of ill health,  financial loss or problems with gas supply; and that British  
Gas acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt  with Mr and Mrs Ws boiler.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7464039