K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited (Lloyds)  
handled their insurance claim.
All references to Lloyds  include its agents.
background
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs A made  a claim after they discovered damp  at the back of their 
wardrobe. Initially Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs A that their claim would  be accepted and arranged  
for the damp  clothes to be collected  for cleaning.  
Later Lloyds  said rising damp caused  the damage. Lloyds  thinks  that this damp relates to a 
building defect. Mr and Mrs A have also confirmed they were told by their builder who did the 
flat conversion that the problem was due to lack of ventilation. About three  weeks later, 
Lloyds told Mr and Mrs A that their claim was declined  because their policy doesnt cover 
damp or condensation  damage.  But it offered Mr and Mrs A £75 for the incorrect  information 
it had provided originally. 
Mr and Mrs A paid for their own cleaning of the clothes, which  cost them  approximately 
£600. They  believe Lloyds  should pay for this cleaning  due to its mistake. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and she was of the opinion that 
condensation/damp is not something that is covered by Mr and Mrs As insurance policy.  
She did agree with Mr and Mrs A that Lloyds made  an error when it originally told them their 
claim would be accepted, however it had offered compensation for this so she didnt think 
Lloyds was required to do anything further.  
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the investigator  so the complaint  has been passed to me to 
make a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Not all damage will be covered by a home insurance policy.  Only specific, defined  insured 
events set out in the policy will be covered. The onus is for the policyholder to show that an 
insured event most likely  caused the damage. Condensation/damp is not an insured event 
that is covered  by their policy. This means I dont think Lloyds has been unfair or 
unreasonable when it turned down their claim because Mr and Mrs A have not shown that a 
defined insured event set out in their policy most  likely caused the damage.
Lloyds, when rejecting Mr and Mrs As claim has also mentioned a general exclusion in the 
policy which  says that condensation is not covered.  So even if Mr and Mrs A did show  a 
defined insured event under their policy was the reason for the condensation  I think its likely 
Lloyds wouldve been able to rely on this exclusion as it is clearly set out in Mr and Mrs As 
policy, and this is an exclusion  commonly found in most home  insurance  policies on the 
market. 
In any event, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that the damage  to Mr and Mrs As clothes was 
due to damp and condensation caused  by lack of ventilation. Mr and Mrs A say that they 
Ref: DRN72194682understand this is not covered by their insurance policy.  But they feel Lloyds should  pay for 
the cleaning costs of the clothes because it originally told them their claim was accepted  and 
it was a few weeks  before  it told them  otherwise. 
I understand Lloyds  mistake has caused Mr and Mrs A upset, but Lloyds has done  what  I 
wouldve expected  it to do considering the circumstances of the complaint. It admitted that it 
did make  an error when it originally told Mr and Mrs A their claim would be accepted,  it 
apologised and offered compensation for this. I think the £75 compensation offered by 
Lloyds is a fair reflection of the upset that this error  has caused  Mr and Mrs A. 
If a business has given incorrect information we wouldnt ordinarily recommend they should 
put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the advice was true. Instead,  
wed generally recommend for the business to pay compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience and upset caused  to the consumer. So whilst I realise my decision will come  
as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs A, Im not asking Lloyds to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs As 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7219468