K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Ageas Retail Limited cancelled  Mr Bs motor  insurance policy 
without notice and that they drove  their car uninsured as a result.  
background
Mrs B set up Mr Bs policy with Ageas on 27 February 2019 through a comparison website. 
They were  driving in their car on 18 March 2019 when they saw an email from Ageas saying 
that the policy had been cancelled five days earlier. They didnt  know what led to that, as 
they had sent Ageas  proof of the no claims discount it required on 15 March 2019.  
Mr B reinsured with Ageas immediately,  but Mr and Mrs B say Ageas charged more for the 
new policy, plus a cancellation  fee of £25. And it took six days for the refund on the first 
policy to reach their account. But Mr and Mrs Bs major concern was what could have 
happened during the time the car was uninsured.  
Ageas said Mr B was sent letters and emails advising  him that proof of NCD was required, 
including a seven  day cancellation notice on 6 March 2019. It said it deducted the £25 
charge when the new policy was taken out. It said the refund for the first policy  was issued 
on the day the cancellation  was processed and that the new policy  cost £7.28 less. 
Mr and Mrs B said they didnt get any emails from Ageas, or see the letters  it said it sent.  
They said they had to wait for the previous policy with another insurer to lapse before they 
got NCD proof from that insurer,  and that they were away around this time.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She didnt think  Ageas gave 
Mr B enough  time to provide  NCD proof.  And in her view the timescales it gave for providing 
it werent clear enough. Ageas asked for an ombudsmans review of the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  the complaint as follows:  
We think its reasonable for seven days notice of cancelation to be given, plus confirmation  
that a policy  has been cancelled. We also think its fair for a cancellation  to be based  on a 
consumers failure to provide proof  of NCD by a due date, as long as theyve been given a 
reasonable amount of time to do so. 
Ageas has shown that during the online application process on 27 February  2019,  
Mr and Mrs B were  informed that NCD proof must be provided within  14 days, or the policy  
would be cancelled. That message was shown  before and after they bought the policy.  
Ageas can show it sent an email  on the same day advising Mr B that NCD proof was needed 
within 14 days. It sent a further email on 4 March  2019, this time giving nine days to provide 
the proof.  Two days  later,  a letter and an email were  issued giving  Mr B seven days notice of 
cancellation. It isnt clear why Mr and Mrs B didnt see these  documents, and Ageas had no 
way of knowing that they hadnt been seen.
In my opinion, Ageas  gave Mr B sufficient,  clear notice of the need to provide NCD proof and 
of the cancellation. Mr and Mrs B sent the NCD proof to Ageas on 15 March 2019, although 
it had been sent to Mr B by the previous insurer  over a week earlier.  Mr and Mrs B say they 
were away  for a time after the policy was taken  out. They havent provided anything  to show  
when exactly that was  or more importantly, that they made Ageas  aware  of it.  
Ref: DRN79094812I think its reasonable for Ageas  to say a consumer  is responsible  for ensuring their policy 
can be validated by providing all the necessary details in the required time. Mr B was made 
aware from the outset  that NCD proof  must be provided by 13 March 2019. I dont think  a 
14-day deadline is unreasonable in itself.  As far as I can see, Mr B didnt tell Ageas hed 
need an extension  to it, for whatever  reason. If Mr B could  show  hed done that, Id have 
thought it unreasonable  if Ageas hadnt  considered his request.
Although Mr and Mrs B were  on notice  of the date the policy would be cancelled,  I think  
Ageas should  have  confirmed the cancellation  earlier than it did. I think  it would have been 
preferable to do that on the day it took effect or the day after that. But we cant  tell Ageas 
what processes to operate. I understand why Mr and Mrs B were horrified to think  about 
what may have happened  during the five days before Ageass confirmation was sent. 
Fortunately, nothing  did happen. Were not able to base decisions on potential outcomes. 
In the end, it seems  Mr B didnt have to pay the cancellation charge. The new policy was 
paid for on the same  day Ageas  refunded  the old policys  premium. Ageas says the policy 
cost slightly less than the old one, and Mr and Mrs B havent  provided anything to show 
thats not the case. So I dont think they lost out financially as a result of these transactions.
Unfortunately Mr B now has a cancellation  on his record. I can see how frustrating  that must 
be for him and Mrs B, as it could easily have  been  avoided. But based  on the information I 
have at the moment, I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably. That means  despite  my 
sympathy for Mr and Mrs B, I cant uphold their complaint.      
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Ageas accepted them.  
Mr and Mrs B said they only got two emails from Ageas, one on the day the policy was set 
up and one five days after the cancellation. They  said Ageas had given us false  information. 
They didnt think theyd  been given enough time to provide  proof of their NCD. Mr and Mrs B 
said when they sent in the proof on 15 March 2019  the response they got was that it would 
take Ageas  five days to deal with their email. They said communication  isn't sent if it isnt 
received. And they said this service  exists to protect consumers.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has provided  screenshots  from its system  that show emails were sent to Mr Bs email  
account on 27 February 2019, 4 March 2019  and 6 March 2019. We take the view that if a 
business can show that letters or emails  were sent - to the right address  - the business cant  
be blamed if they werent received. The first email said NCD proof was needed within 14 
days. The third email gave seven  days  notice of cancellation if NCD proof wasnt  received by 
then. Mr B got the proof  he needed by email from his previous insurer on 7 March 2019. 
It isnt clear why Mr and Mrs B didnt get the three  emails from Ageas. But I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Ageas gave us false information. It has been able to show that the 
emails were sent. Mr and Mrs B had already been advised twice  during the sales  process 
(before and after the sale) that NCD proof  was required within 14 days  of 27 February  2019.  
Letters had also been sent to their online account.
I think Ageas  gave Mr and Mrs B enough  time to provide their NCD proof.  In their reply to my 
provisional decision, Mr and Mrs B didnt  explain  why they didnt email the proof of NCD to 
Ref: DRN79094813Ageas for a week  after they received it. By that time, the policy had been cancelled. Nor did 
they comment on why they didnt tell Ageas at the outset if they thought theyd  have a 
problem, either in getting the NCD proof, or in sending  it on to Ageas in time. 
I can see why Mr and Mrs B thought  it was unreasonable for Ageas to say it wouldnt be 
replying to Mr Bs email of 15 March 2019 for five days. But had they emailed Ageas within 
the deadline for avoiding  the cancellation,  it would have made no difference  how long it took 
Ageas to reply. The policy wouldnt have been cancelled as they would  have complied with 
the set date for supplying the NCD proof.
Mr and Mrs B said in their comments on the provisional decision that they didnt pay more  for 
their new policy and they werent  charged a cancellation fee. Ageas has confirmed that they 
were charged a £25 cancellation fee - which I think was reasonable at the time. When they 
bought a new policy, the £25 charge  was deducted from the price of that policy.  Ageas also 
confirmed that the new policy was £7.28 cheaper  than the old one before the £25 deduction. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think it would have been preferable for Ageas to advise 
Mr and Mrs B that the policy had been  cancelled very quickly after that happened. But as far 
as Ageas knew, they were aware  of the cancellation  date and had been  reminded of it only a 
week earlier. I appreciate  that the refund wasnt provided for a few days, but as far as I can 
see Mr and Mrs B got it on the same  day or the day after they had to pay for another policy.  
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration  in not having  their complaint upheld, especially as 
they have a cancellation on their record and believe that isnt due to any fault on their part. 
But this services role is to take an independent view of the evidence  in disputes between  
consumers and businesses. In this case,  taking everything into account,  I dont  think Ageas 
acted unreasonably in cancelling Mr and Mrs Bs policy, so I cant  uphold their complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7909481