K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) didnt respond within  a reasonable 
time when  a water pipe in his bathroom  burst and he called on BGI under his home  
emergency insurance policy.
background
At about 5.50 am one morning in June 2018, Mr D found that a water pipe supplying a tap in 
his bathroom had burst and water was pouring out of the leaking pipe. He immediately rang 
BGI to ask for help under his home emergency  policy. He explained the leak was continuing. 
BGI confirmed a plumber  would be sent that morning as an emergency.
Mr D tried to switch  off the water  supply at his external stop cock. However this wasnt  
effective and the leak continued. Shortly after 8.00 am he rang BGI again  to ask where the 
plumber was. BGI said its target response time for the external plumbers it employed was 
four hours. It said a plumber would aim to get there  by 10.00  am. 
Mr D said this wasnt good  enough for an emergency service which promised a response 
within a reasonable time,  given that water was still pouring from his leak and damaging both 
the upstairs and downstairs of his house.  A plumber arrived at 9.10 am. He stopped  the leak 
and repaired  the burst pipe.
Mr D complained to BGI. He said it hadnt responded in a reasonable time in the 
circumstances as promised by his policy terms. He didnt think  the fact that BGIs target was 
a four hour response  time, and its plumber arrived within that, was an answer. He also 
complained that a supervisor had failed to return a phone call as promised.
BGI didnt  accept the main part of his complaint. It said its commitment on timescales  in its 
terms and conditions was as follows:
Reasonable Timescales  Well carry out any repairs  or visits youre entitled to within a 
reasonable time, unless something  beyond  our control makes that impossible  in which 
case well let you know as soon as possible  and give you another time when we can visit.
BGI remained of the view that it had fulfilled its obligations under the policy.  It said it hadnt 
caused the leak, or the water damage to Mr Ds house, and he should claim for this under  
his household insurance policy.  However it did pay him compensation of £30 for the failure 
of its supervisor to return  his phone call as promised.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. Although Mr D 
had first phoned BGI at 5.50 am, and had made clear the urgency of the emergency, BGI 
didnt actually start processing the job until 7.51 am  some  two hours later.  She said BGI 
hadnt given any reasons  that justified this delay. So she thought  this was an unjustified and 
avoidable delay  and BGI would have been able to attend sooner, if the booking  had been  
dispatched earlier.
Mr D had tried to minimise the water damage  by putting out bowls and towels, and trying to 
turn off the water. Mr D had said he didnt propose claiming for the damage  on his household 
insurance policy as it would cost him more in increased insurance premiums. Our 
investigator said he was entitled to take this view.
Ref: DRN74611482Mr D had received an estimate of £503  to rectify the damage. She thought  that the damage 
that resulted was greater due to the delay in the plumber attending. So she thought  it fair 
and reasonable that BGI should contribute to the repair costs.
In calculating the redress amount, the investigator took into account  the unjustified  delay,   
Mr Ds efforts to mitigate the losses, and the fact that some  damage wouldve happened 
even if BGI had attended within  a reasonable time.  She recommended that BGI should offer 
to pay half of the total cost of the repairs, that is £251.50, plus compensation of £50 for the 
inconvenience Mr D suffered because of BGIs error in failing  to despatch  the plumber 
sooner.
Mr D accepted the investigators recommendation. BGI responded to say, in summary,  that:
BGI didnt cause the leak;
it attended within an acceptable timeframe, provided the level of service it would 
have expected to see, and resolved the fault; 
it didnt accept that any delay in despatching the plumber had made the damage  50% 
worse; and
Mr D should have  claimed on his household insurer, when the repair  costs  would 
have been met in full.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I dont think BGI failing to despatch a plumber  for some two hours 
when it knew water was continuing to pour from a burst pipe can be said to be responding 
within a reasonable time.  I agree  that the longer  the water continued to flow, the greater 
was the damage  which was likely  to result.
I accept BGI didnt cause  the burst pipe. But its actions meant its likely the resulting 
damage, and the distress and inconvenience  Mr D suffered, were  greater than they need 
have been. I also agree that Mr D is entitled  to decide not to claim on his household 
insurance policy.
So I conclude its fair and reasonable that BGI should pay half of the total cost of the repairs,  
that is £251.50, plus compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience  Mr D suffered 
because of BGIs failure to despatch the plumber sooner.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited to 
pay Mr D:
1.half of the total cost of the required repairs, that is £251.50; and
2.compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience its delay caused Mr D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN74611483Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7461148