K820x#14complaint
Miss P has a Thomas  Cook payment card, issued by R. Raphael & Sons Plc. She complains
that she tried to use the card to withdraw  cash abroad. The transaction was unsuccessful,
but her account  was debited nevertheless. To resolve matters, she wants the money
refunded.
background
The Thomas  Cook card is a pre-paid card. A cardholder can load money to it and then use it
to withdraw cash in a range of currencies.
In July 2018 Miss P was travelling with friends.  Miss P says she tried to withdraw €250 at a
cash machine in Amsterdam.  The transaction  was declined  but her account was still debited.
It was re-credited temporarily, but re-debited after further investigation.
Miss P referred the case to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. She
concluded that, whilst she was satisfied the cash machine presented  the money to Miss P,
she wasnt persuaded that Miss P had taken it. And she didnt think  the bank had shown that
the money hadnt been taken back into the machine  as would happen if it had been
dispensed but not collected.
In the course  of our investigation  Miss P provided  statements from two friends who were with
her at the time. Both said theyd seen Miss P make an unsuccessful  attempt to withdraw
cash.
The investigator said the bank should refund  the money, since it hadnt shown that Miss P
had collected  it. Raphael & Sons  didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman  review the
case. I did that and, because  I didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, issued a 
provisional decision. I explained  that I believed that the evidence provided  by the cash 
machine operator  showed  that Miss P had made  an unsuccessful attempt to withdraw cash, 
but that she had then made a second attempt  which had been successful. Her account 
had been correctly debited with €250,  the amount of the second  withdrawal. 
The first attempt had been unsuccessful because  Miss P had requested dynamic  currency  
conversion. Because that generally  results in a less favourable currency  conversion rate, 
she hadnt had enough money on her card to complete the transaction.  When  she declined 
that option, the withdrawal had been successful.    
Miss P made further submissions, as Id invited  her to do. She said that the cash machine 
records showed that on both occasions dynamic currency  conversion  was declined. She 
didnt accept my finding either that someone  had used the machine very soon after she did 
and said that she had stayed waiting for the cash.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Miss P says about her use of the cash machine, but Im afraid I dont believe her 
recollection is accurate.  In an earlier email to our investigator she said: After the first 
attempt I decided not to bother again and so didnt try to withdraw a smaller amount. That 
Ref: DRN75261642isnt entirely consistent  with what she says now  that she did make a second  attempt to 
withdraw cash. 
I set out in detail  in my provisional decision the timings shown by the cash  machines own 
records. They showed an attempt  to withdraw cash which was declined  because there were 
insufficient funds  on the card. That was followed less than a minute  later by a second  
attempt to use Miss Ps card to withdraw money, this time successfully.
The cash  machine records  then show a second  customer making a balance  enquiry and 
then a third making  a withdrawal, all in quick succession. Theyre  clearly  different customers, 
because different cards are used. 
Miss P says that she didnt fabricate the evidence,  and she feels her integrity is in question. 
However, the cash machine records indicate that things didnt happen as she recalls. Ive no 
reason to think that Miss Ps doesnt genuinely recall the events as shes explained  them, 
but Im afraid I believe in this case that her recollection isnt accurate. I make  the same  
comments about the two witnesses  who say they saw Miss P make an unsuccessful 
withdrawal attempt. They clearly did, but Im not persuaded that theyve been able accurately 
to recall all the relevant  events  including the second, successful, cash withdrawal.
Miss P has asked  perhaps rhetorically  how she was to know  the machine wouldnt 
dispense cash and how long she should have waited. All I can really  say in response to that 
is that, based on the evidence Ive seen, the machine here did successfully dispense cash; it 
was 12 seconds  from when the card was taken from the machine and the money being 
dispensed. Thats fairly typical, and certainly  not so long that I could say the machine was 
faulty. 
In the circumstances, I dont believe it would be fair to require Raphael & Sons to reimburse 
Miss P.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require R. Raphael & Sons Plc to take any further steps  to 
resolve Miss Ps complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7526164