K821x#15complaint 
Mr O complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam)  decided  to dis-invest his 
drawdown income from across the underlying portfolio of investments, instead of following 
his previous instruction to dis-invest  solely from an interest cash  fund. He believes this has 
led to a loss in the overall value of his self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).
background 
Mr O holds a flexi-drawdown  SIPP with Sanlam which was set up in 2003.  He began 
drawing an income from the plan,  but suspended the payments from June 2013  to 
March 2017 as he received some earned income. In March  2017 he asked Sanlam to re-
start the drawdown  income at £720  per month from April 2017. He stated that all income 
withdrawals were to be funded from the interest fund (a cash  fund within  his pension) only.  
In September  2017 Mr O wrote to Sanlam to confirm that he wanted  his monthly income  to 
be increased to £1,750  from October  2017.  This correspondence didnt include any 
instructions about  how the income  should  be disinvested  from the underlying portfolio of 
investments funds.
In June 2018 Mr O received his annual SIPP statement and noted  a discrepancy between  
what he expected  his SIPP to be worth and what it was actually  worth. The statement 
confirmed that the increased income  payments from October 2017 had been taken 
proportionally across  all the funds held in his SIPP and not from the interest fund. 
Mr O complained, explaining that in March 2017 hed given instructions that his income  
should be drawn solely from the cash fund,  so his subsequent request to increase  those  
income payments  ought to have been  treated in the same way. He said hed expected that 
to be the case  in the absence of new any instructions from him. But Sanlam said Mr Os 
adviser had previously asked what was needed to ensure  income was taken  from just one 
fund and it had advised him that the instruction needed to be in writing. So when  no written 
instruction was received in September 2017   and considering the significant  increase in the 
amount of income  required  Sanlam reverted to its standard procedure to reset  the dis-
investment strategy  so that the income  would  be generated by selling units  proportionally 
across all the investment  funds held in the SIPP.
Sanlam confirmed that, from the July 2018 payments, it would reinstate Mr Os previous 
request to use his interest fund to generate his monthly income payments. But Mr O 
remained unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
adjudicators looked into the matter. 
He said the complaint should be upheld making  the following  points: 
Unless its stipulated in a customers request,  Sanlams SIPP terms and conditions 
(T&Cs) dont clarify the process or methodology that it uses for the selling of funds to 
generate a drawdown income.
Mr Os instruction to increase his monthly income withdrawals contained no 
information about what proportions or which funds units  were to be sold to meet  the 
income. Sanlam said it was a requirement for an instruction to be given. So he 
thought it was reasonable for Sanlam to have checked with Mr O before processing 
his request.
Ref: DRN77688092Prior to the new request Mr Os existing income drawdown payments were  being 
funded from the SIPP  interest  fund which was not in line with Sanlams standard  
procedure. Therefore he said he would have expected  this to have prompted Sanlam 
to double check with Mr O.
Sanlam should  compare the current value  of Mr Os SIPP with its value had the 
income been taken  from the interest  fund instead of across all the funds from 
October 2017. It should pay Mr O any loss as well as £100 for the trouble and upset 
the matter had caused.
Sanlam didnt agree  and felt that Mr O should  have known  that his dis-investment strategy 
would not be maintained  unless he re-confirmed it when he increased  his monthly income 
withdrawals. 
The adjudicator said that if the existing drawdown  income was being  taken from one cash  
fund and the only new instructions provided were  to increase monthly  withdrawals then it 
would be reasonable for Mr O to assume  that either Sanlam  would  contact him to confirm his 
instructions or that payment would continue to be made from the existing cash fund. 
But Sanlam didnt  agree  and asked  for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so 
its been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators conclusions and for broadly the same  reasons.
Ive seen copies  of the letters that Mr O sent to Sanlam in March and September 2017. The 
difference between  the two letters is that in March 2017 he stated I am writing to request 
that the recently set up monthly income  payments of £720 per month are to be funded from 
my SIP interest  fund and not equally across  my portfolio. He also asked for confirmation  
that his request had been carried out  which Sanlam did. Whereas in September 2017  Mr O 
asked for his income payments  to be increased  but with no further instructions on how the 
funds should be dis-invested. 
So I can understand why on face value, and without referring to previous instructions,  
Sanlam would have  assumed that it should adopt its usual practices for dis-investing money 
from a SIPP   with various holdings  in order to pay a monthly income.
So Ive carefully  considered  the SIPP T&Cs that were  in place at the time to demonstrate 
what those standard practices were. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  that shows what Sanlams standard  procedure should  be in 
these circumstances.  The references  Ive seen which  I think most closely  explain Sanlams 
position are: 
Clause 5.40- Your cash holding will be debited to: Provide a lump  sum, drawdown pension, 
capped drawdown,  UFPLS, or the purchase  price  of a lifetime  annuity.
7.16- If you are only investing  in SIPs Funds and if you so request,  your pension income will 
be paid by the cancellation  of units of those SIPs Funds  in which  the Crystallised sub-
Ref: DRN77688093account is invested and which are specified  by you, in the proportions specified by you. The 
same choice of SIPs Funds and specified proportions will be applied to any further sub-
accounts from which you take Capped or Flexi-Access Drawdown Pension, unless you 
request otherwise.
I think these clauses suggest that Mr Os cash fund would be used to provide his drawdown  
income and that he could  nominate the fund to be used (interest fund in this case)  which  
would then apply  to subsequent changes unless otherwise stated.  
Sanlam says that clause 7.16 would  not apply as Mr O didnt have a sub-account. Although 
Ive seen a letter from Sanlam dated  October 2018  which noted the value of Mr Os plan. 
The letter referred  to sub-account number MI01xxxx and sub-account  type-One SIPP,  
which would suggest  Mr O did have  a sub account. Sanlam has also pointed to a clause 
which states For insured  funds a number of units equal in value to the value of each 
payment will be cancelled. The number  of units cancelled  will be calculated using the unit 
prices which  apply for the date on which it is necessary to cancel units  to enable each 
payment to be made.
But I dont think this suggests that units will be cancelled  proportionally  across  the whole 
investment portfolio, simply that units would need  to be cancelled  to ensure payments can 
be made. In my view this could cover  a situation for example, whereby the cash remaining in 
Mr Os portfolio wasnt sufficient to maintain an income payment and other  investments  in 
the portfolio might then be needed  to be utilised.
But in any case,  whether  Im looking at the clauses Ive referenced   or the ones Sanlam 
used in its submissions,  I dont think the T&Cs are sufficiently clear in explaining what  the 
standard procedures  are in this case.  I dont  think its reasonable therefore for Sanlam to 
say it reverted to these procedures unless it can demonstrate clearly what  they are  which 
Im not satisfied it has been able to do. 
.
In cases like this where  information  or evidence is incomplete and contradictory  as it is 
here  I must base  my decision on whats more likely than not to have  happened,  or what  I 
think should have  happened in the circumstances of the case. So Ive looked at how Mr O 
had asked for previous income payments to be dis-invested and how Sanlam had dealt with 
his requests.  
Ive seen that in March  2017 Mr O submitted a request for flexi-access drawdown income 
form which was needed to start or vary income  from his type of SIPP.  The illustration 
Mr O was issued with in return showed  how his SIPP was invested. Aside from the managed 
fund and property  fund within his SIPP, over 54% of Mr Os money was invested in an 
interest fund and this fund was noted  as being used 100% for his drawdown pension. In 
other words his income would be derived solely from that fund. So I think  the strategy  that 
Mr O had asked for  and was agreed  by Sanlam  in March 2017  was clear. 
And I believe Mr O has been consistent  in explaining  his strategy and reasons for requesting  
income to be paid from the interest fund. He says he prefers the income to be taken from 
the interest fund so as to allow the other  investments  to grow in line with the underlying 
assets. Mr O says his aim is to avoid selling fund holdings when investment markets are 
falling.
Ive taken into account that Mr O had only ever asked for his income  to be paid using the 
same strategy  namely  disinvestment  from the interest fund. He took the same  course of 
action initially before he stopped drawing income in 2013 which  suggested that was his 
Ref: DRN77688094preferred method. And he also instructed Sanlam to increase his holding in that fund to 41% 
in 2016  so as to be able to continue to fund the disinvestment. Mr O continued with this 
strategy in his letter of March 2017 and when he increased his payments in September  he 
didnt ask for any changes  to be made.  So I think, in the absence  of new instructions, or any 
clear guidance  in the T&Cs Sanlam should  have carried out the change  in line with his 
existing arrangement.  I would have expected Sanlam to do what was already held as an 
instruction unless it was told otherwise. 
If Sanlam was unsure  about Mr Os request   either  because he hadnt  given  a new written  
instruction or because  he hadnt confirmed his previous position, then I would have expected  
Sanlam to have  confirmed the situation with Mr O  which I think  would have led to Mr O 
clarifying that he wanted income to be generated by using the interest  fund. I think  Mr Os 
position is supported  by the fact that he didnt complete an application form or receive an 
illustration by return of his application  in September 2017 as hed done in March.  
So I can understand why Mr O didnt think he was making a new application in 
September 2017 as the process he followed wasnt the same  as the one hed followed in 
March. I think  its reasonable to assume he simply thought he was instructing an increase  in 
the income he wanted to receive  from that time  without making any further  changes  to his 
disinvestment strategy.  I note that when Sanlam replied to Mr Os request in March 2017 it 
confirmed income would be taken from the interest  fund, but its letter of 21 September 2017 
didnt make any reference to the change it was going to make for the following months 
income payments.  I think Mr O could have  expected  to see such  a change confirmed within 
the letter as it represented a variation on what had been previously agreed. 
Sanlam has accepted that it could  have contacted Mr O, but instead decided to follow  its 
standard procedure  as it said Mr O hadnt  nominated a specific fund for the withdrawals to 
be taken from. Its also said that it treated the increase in payments as a new request 
because it was a sizeable increase. But Im not persuaded it was reasonable for Sanlam to 
take that action  without  being able to demonstrate what constituted a sizeable change.   
I dont think it was fair for Sanlam to unilaterally  change Mr Os previous disinvestment 
request without a clear  instruction from him to support  a change or confirmation  within  the 
T&Cs of its standard procedures. Based on what Ive seen theres no evidence  to show 
that the T&Cs confirmed  the position  that Sanlam adopted. So I dont think  Mr O has been 
treated fairly here as I think it should have been possible to confirm the position he wanted, 
which was quite clear  based on his previous behaviour. 
Sanlam says a request  to disinvest from the funds should be made in writing  each time a 
new request is made. And I can understand therefore why it may have decided  Mr O hadnt 
given any instruction. But this should  have alerted Sanlam  not to take any action without a 
written request, because  I dont  think the normal practices it took were supported by the 
guidelines or T&Cs.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if his original  disinvestment instructions had been followed in September 2017.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr O's circumstances 
and objectives  when he made  his request. 
Ref: DRN77688095What should Sanlam do?
To compensate Mr O fairly, Sanlam must:
Compare the performance of Mr O's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Sanlam should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Sanlam  should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Sanlam is unable to pay the total amount into Mr O's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr O would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr O £100 for the disruption to his retirement provision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sanlam deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr O how much has been  taken off. Sanlam should give Mr O a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsThe performance
of the SIPP  had 
the increased
income been
drawn solely date the first 
payment  was 
drawn from 
across  all the 
SIP funds. date of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
Ref: DRN77688096from the 
SIP Interest
Fund for the 
period that it 
was drawn 
from across  
all the funds.is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sanlam  Life & Pensions  UK Limited should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr O in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7768809