K820x#14complaint
Mr D says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business  as AMEX in my decision.
background
Mr D bought the policy in 2009 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint because:
 I think AMEX  made Mr D aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I say this because  fortunately a recording of the phone call during 
which the PPI was sold is available. During  this phone call, in my opinion, AMEX  made  
it reasonably clear that PPI was optional before Mr D agreed to take it out. For 
example, at one point Mr D said Before I make  any decision I need to check  what Ive 
already got
At another point the adviser says; Can you confirm  that youre happy to proceed 
having received  only limited  information...  and Would you like me to enrol you on the 
American Express lifestyle repayment protection plan now?.....  
Although Mr D has said that it wasnt made clear that PPI was optional, I've not found 
evidence to support  what hes said. 
 AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did still have to give Mr D good enough information  about the PPI so that he 
could decide if the policy was right for himself  and if he wanted to take it out. Mr D has 
complained that insufficient documentation was provided  alongside  the application 
regarding the terms and conditions of the policy. 
 I agree  that its possible the information AMEX  gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  For example, as this sale took place during a telephone call, 
Mr D would have been sent some of the information about the policy after he agreed to 
take it out. But I also think that AMEX did draw Mr Ds attention  to some of the key 
exclusions and limitations of the policy during the telephone call. For example around 8 
minutes into the call the adviser  covers off briefly some of the exclusions such  as 
pre-existing medical conditions.  
When Ive considered what Mr D has told us about  his personal circumstances, 
Ref: DRN78149792I havent found that he was affected  or likely to be affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations of the policy. I also think the policy couldve been useful to 
him. So I dont think  better information wouldve stopped him buying it. So I dont think 
that Mr D has lost out because of anything that AMEX may have done  wrong.  
Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments,  including what hes said about  his sick pay 
entitlement. But under the terms of this policy, after 6 months (at the start of month 7),
Mr Ds outstanding card balance would be cleared. Although Mr D has said that he had        
6 months full sick pay, I still think that he could have  found the policy  benefit useful and the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ds sick pay entitlement. 
This would have allowed Mr D the option  of not needing to use his sick pay entitlement to 
make his credit card repayments and instead hed also have the option of using his sick pay 
entitlement for other living expenses he may have had. So these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7814979