K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think that BOS made it clear  Mr W didnt have to take out PPI with his credit card and 
that he chose  to take it. It was a postal application  and BOS has been  able to give us a 
copy of the credit  agreement. Mr W has ticked the yes rather than the no box in order 
to take the CreditCare   the PPI  and has also signed for it separately from the credit 
card itself.   
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI  a pre-existing medical 
condition as an example. So the policy would have been useful for Mr W if something 
went wrong. And so I dont think better  information about  the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what he has said about his 
employment and employee benefits  if he wasnt able to work. But Ive considered this 
and the policy would  have paid out over and above his employee  benefits, and for longer 
if he made a successful claim. So these points dont change my decision.
This means  BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  BOS didnt tell him, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN71785142The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7178514