K820x#14complaint
Mrs D and Mr G complain about AXA Insurance  UK Plcs service under their travel  insurance 
policy. My references to AXA include its agents.
background
Mrs D and Mr G have travel insurance  through a bank account.  AXA is the insurer.
While on holiday  abroad Mrs D was diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Her 
husband, Mr G, contacted AXA on 29 and 31 August about any necessary changes to their 
remaining flights given the DVT. They were due to fly to another location in the same country 
on 7 September  and fly home on 12 September.
On 6 September AXAs medical team assessed  that Mrs D needed  a seat with leg elevation  
(so business class  or three seats  together),  and wheelchair assistance from the airport to the 
plane.
Mrs D has given her detailed  account of subsequent events.  In summary she says:
Later on 6 September AXA told her there werent appropriate seats  on their 
scheduled flight of the 7 September.  It arranged new seats for a flight the following 
day which meant they missed a day in their new location. Mr G had to make several 
calls to AXA before  the rearranged flight to get a fit to fly certificate  for Mrs D.
On 10 September  Mr G contacted AXA as he hadnt received any information about 
the flights home scheduled for 12 September. AXA didnt respond.
On 11 September  Mr G was increasingly  worried and made several  calls to and 
emailed AXA. One AXA representative  said there  was nothing on record but another  
AXA representative then text to say she was working on the case and she would 
update [them] asap.  They heard nothing further  so went to the airport where they 
had to make their own arrangements for business class flights and wheel chair 
assistance. 
AXA accepted it gave poor service.  It offered £500  compensation  in total for Mrs D and 
Mr Gs distress and inconvenience it caused.  It paid the costs they claimed including  the cost 
of a business class seat for Mr G.
Mrs D and Mr G complained to us. They said they spent much of their holiday worrying  
about not hearing from AXA and the second  part of their holiday was ruined by Mr G having 
to frequently chase  AXA about their flights home. They say £500 isnt enough.  Their  holiday 
cost about £8,400 and they want compensation to reflect AXAs detrimental impact on the 
14 days of their 18 days holiday.
Our investigator thought AXAs £500 offer was reasonable.
Mrs D and Mr G dont agree and want an ombudsmans decision.  They  made several 
comments which Ive taken into account and Ill refer to their key points below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75887952I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
AXA accepts  its communication with Mrs D and Mr G was poor,  it organised the internal 
flight too late and failed to organise the return flights home. Its poor service  isnt disputed. 
I have to decide if its £500 compensation  offer was fair and reasonable.
I dont make compensation awards based on the cost of the affected holiday. I award 
compensation based on the overall distress and inconvenience to a consumer.
From AXAs call notes (UK dates noted) Mr G phoned and spoke to AXA on 29 and 
31 August. It unsuccessfully tried to call Mr G on 6 September and spoke to him on 
7 September.  On the second leg of the trip, Mr G spoke to AXA on 8 September,  twice on 
11 September and AXA made several unsuccessful  calls to him on 12 September followed 
by an email. Mr G then called AXA from the airport to complain about the lack of 
arrangements.
Mrs D says the above contact doesnt take into account that on numerous occasions Mr G 
couldnt get through to AXA and was transferred to a call centre,  who said it would call back 
which never happened. He also emailed AXA and the calls and emails had to be done from 
their hotel room. She says they also waited in the hotel for AXA to call when it didnt.
I accept that Mr D spent more time than is shown by AXAs  calls notes  but Im not persuaded 
that the time taken ruined the holiday.   
However, its clear from Mrs Ds detailed comments that she and her husband were very 
upset and stressed by the accumulation of AXAs failures. AXAs  delay then failure to secure 
appropriate seats to their second location meant they were  unable to sleep on 7 September  
as they were worried about not being able to get to the second  location. They  missed  a day 
in the second location They  were rightly concerned that AXA would fail them in making 
arrangements for their return flights.  They also had all the stress of making  the return  fight 
arrangements themselves  at the airport.
Mrs D says there was a significant  impact on her and Mr Gs wellbeing and they couldnt     
enjoy any part of their holiday  with such stress.  
I do understand Mrs D and Mr G were very upset about AXAs lack of communication  and 
failings. Ive no doubt AXAs service impacted on their holiday and note Mrs D said the 
holiday was a lifetime  event. But I think AXAs £500 offer is a reasonable amount of 
compensation to acknowledge  that Mrs D and Mr G had substantial distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Im not persuaded theres any basis  for me to me say AXA must pay a higher award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN75887953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7588795