K821x#15Complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with how Ageas Insurance Limited  settled a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
Background
Mr T has a home insurance policy  with Ageas which  covers his buildings and contents, 
amongst other things.  
He made  a claim after an escape  of water in his upstairs bathroom. This was due to a faulty 
connector under his bathroom tap, which caused  water to leak down to his kitchen  ceiling 
and floor.
Ageas accepted Mr Ts claim and sent out their loss adjuster, who Ill refer to as E, to assess  
the damage. E reported  to Ageas that Mr T disagreed with their assessment and costs.    
E said in their report that not all the kitchen  and bathroom tiles were damaged. Mr T got his 
own report on the damage and cost of repair. He obtained two estimates which  quoted 
higher prices  for the repair works than E. He also obtained his own independent  report  to 
comment on the damage and scope of works.  
After reviewing the further evidence provided  by Mr T, Ageas amended their scope of works.  
They accepted Mr Ts experts  findings  on the kitchen tiles and offered a cash  settlement for 
the claim.  Ageas said their offer to cash settle the claim was in line with the terms of his 
policy.   
Mr T complained to Ageas about  their cash settlement offer.  He said he couldnt get the 
repairs done from the cash settlement offered by Ageas. And he feels Ageas should  be 
replacing all his tiles, because otherwise hell be left with an unmatched set of bathroom  
tiles. When Ageas didnt  uphold  the complaint, he brought it to us. 
Our investigator looked into it. He thought Ageas should  contribute 50% of the cost of the 
undamaged bathroom wall tiles. And if Ageas didnt offer to carry out the repairs but just 
offered a cash settlement, then they should pay the cost of repairs  based  on what it would 
cost Mr T to pay for the repairs. 
Ageas disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. Ageas  said the policy  
terms allow them to choose  how to settle  a claim.  And the policy terms also say they wont 
cover any undamaged items in a matching set.
   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked to see whether Ageass cash settlement  offer is reasonable. And if Ageas  should 
be covering the cost of the undamaged bathroom wall tiles. 
Ref: DRN70112192Ageas has pointed out the following paragraph  in the policy:
We will at our option repair,  reinstate  or replace the lost or damaged property Where 
property cannot  be replaced or repaired we may at our option pay in cash the 
amount of the loss or damage If we do pay cash the sum payable will reflect any 
discounts we may have  received had we replaced  the property.  
So, the policy terms give Ageas  not Mr T  the choice in how a claim will be settled. And if 
Ageas chooses  to cash settle, the policy terms say they may reduce  this amount to reflect 
any discounts they may have received if theyd carried out the repairs. 
However, buildings insurance policies are policies of indemnity. This means the purpose of 
the policy is to put the policyholder back in a position they were in just before the loss or 
damage happened. So, in Mr Ts case that would mean hed have an undamaged bathroom  
with matching tiles on the wall. 
This service has a long-established approach where there is a dispute  about a cash 
settlement offered by an insurer. 
We think that if an insurer only offers a cash settlement, the amount they offer should  reflect  
the cost to the policyholder of getting  a repair done.  Thats because  the policyholder hasnt 
been given the option to be indemnified. 
If an insurer opts to repair  or replace the loss or damage, then the policyholder has been  
indemnified. But if the insurer only gives the option  of a cash settlement and this reflects the 
cost to the insurer, then that wont indemnify the policyholder. As they wont be able to get 
the repairs done for the amount offered.   
If, on the other hand, a policyholder requests a cash settlement, when the insurer has given 
the option to repair or replace, then its fair for the insurer to settle the claim based  on what  it 
would cost them. In that case,  theyve given the policyholder the option to be indemnified.  
And its the policyholder who wants the cash settlement.  So, we dont think  it would be fair 
for the insurer to bear the extra costs  when they couldve carried out a repair or replacement  
for less.   
I appreciate the policy terms allow Ageas to decide how they settle claims. But I dont think  
its fair for Ageas to settle Mr Ts claim in a way which wont  indemnify him. I think its 
irrelevant in this case for Ageas to take into consideration the repair  costs  quoted  by their 
contractors. Because  Ageas isnt offering to carry out the repair.  
Ageas also pointed out another condition in its policy, about  matching sets. It says:  
An individual item of a matching set of articles or suite of furniture or sanitaryware or 
other bathroom fittings is regarded as a single item. We will pay you for individual  
damaged items but not for undamaged companion pieces. 
Ageass policy  terms say that they will only cover damaged items  and not any matching 
undamaged items. This would leave Mr T with a bathroom that doesnt  match. So, I dont 
think its necessarily fair for Ageas  to strictly apply their policy term in this instance.     
Ref: DRN70112193When there is an issue of loss of match, Id expect and insurer to try to find a match. And in 
in this instance Ageas couldnt  find a match  for the bathroom tiles as they were  no longer 
available. That being the case,  I dont think its fair for them to decline to pay anything  at all 
towards replacement  of the undamaged  tiles - because it still leaves Mr T with a bathroom 
that doesnt match. 
I recognise Ageass  policy specifically  covers damaged items. And it would  be unreasonable  
for me to ask Ageas  to pay for all the undamaged bathroom tiles. At the same time Mr T has 
suffered a loss of match  and hasnt been put back in a position he was in before the claim.  
So, I feel Ageas should  pay some  compensation towards Mr T to reflect  the loss of match.   
Both Mr Ts experts  report, and Ageass loss adjuster recognise there will be further damage 
to the bathroom  tiles once  repairs take place. This may happen when the bathroom base 
and vanity unit is removed. The exact number of damaged tiles is unknown  and will only 
become apparent once the repair works take place.  
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied on balance that fair compensation in these  
circumstances would  be for Ageas to pay a 50% contribution towards the cost of replacing  
the undamaged  bathroom  wall tiles.  
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must: 
pay what it would cost Mr T to carry out the repair works based  on the agreed 
schedule of works; and
pay 50% of the cost of replacing  the undamaged tiles - along  with the full cost of 
replacing the damaged tiles.   
If, Mr T has already carried out the repairs then Ageas  must  pay 8% simple  interest on the 
total amount set out above from the date Mr T paid for the repairs  to date of settlement.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7011219