K821x#15complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
MYJAR provided Mr M with 4 loans between January 2017 and August 2018 with the last
loan still outstanding. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ms case and didnt think  MYJAR needed to do anymore when it 
gave Mr M loans 1-3. However, the adjudicator  thought  loan 4 shouldnt have been given to 
Mr M as his overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant  on 
short term loans. MYJAR  disagreed saying it carried out proportionate  checks.  
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M  
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN76008782I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. I dont think MYJAR shouldve given 
Mr M loan 4. Ive reached this decision for different reasons as those outlined  by the 
adjudicator and Ill explain why. Our adjudicator didnt  think  MYJAR needed to do any more  
when it gave Mr M loans 1-3. Mr M didnt disagree with this so I wont be considering these 
loans in detail,  but Ill still be considering them when looking  at Mr Ms financial situation  at 
the time.  
MYJAR says it carried out adequate checks on Mr M when he applied for loan 4. This 
included getting  details of his income and expenditure. It also says it checked his credit  
report. This was Mr Ms fourth loan with MYJAR and the amounts Mr M was borrowing and 
the repayment periods were steadily increasing.  So MYJAR shouldve  been looking at Mr 
Ms situation  in detail  and considering the impact giving him loan 4 would have.
I can see from evidence submitted by MYJAR that it did carry out checks on Mr M. However, 
I think if MYJAR had properly considered Mr Ms financial situation and the lending  I think  it 
would have seen  that Mr M was not in a position to take on this borrowing.
I say this because  Mr M was borrowing £1,400, which was due to be repaid over 12 
instalments. The monthly repayments for Mr M were £216.67.  The information gathered from 
Mr M at the time shows he had an income of £1,700  and his expenditure which included 
housing costs, general living costs and existing  credit commitments was around £1,840. This 
shows that Mr M was already over-extending  himself financially and as such was also not in 
a position to sustainably repay the loan and he was likely to be having issues  managing his 
finances. Given that Mr M was already unable to meet his current commitments based on 
the figures above I think this information shouldve prompted MYJAR to obtain a better  
understanding of Mr Ms finances before lending to him again. 
MYJAR says it asked Mr M for details and based on those figures the loan was affordable. 
But the other information available  to MYJAR shows  Mr M was not in a position to take on 
this loan without  struggling to meet  the repayments.  The fact loan 4 remains  outstanding 
supports this as Mr M has not been able to sustainably repay the borrowing.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Mr Ms loan and MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR Limited needs to do
MYJAR Ltd shouldnt have given Mr M loan 4 so it should:
Ref: DRN76008783A) MYJAR  should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance.
B) MYJAR  should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MYJAR should remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr M as though they had been  
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr M having  made  
overpayments then MYJAR should refund  these  overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans (and any principal written-off 
under a redress scheme  if applicable). If this results in a surplus then the surplus should 
be paid to Mr M. However if there is still an outstanding balance  then MYJAR should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
E) MYJAR  should remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  MYJAR should  give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. MYJAR Limited should pay 
put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision 
before 18 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7600878