K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, havent  carried out a 
chargeback for £499 correctly. Mr Ns also unhappy  with the service given  when  
complaining about this.
background
Mr N made a payment of £499 from his Halifax current account to his credit card 
account held with another bank  on 16 August  2018. 
On 13 September 2018, Mr N contacted Halifax to dispute the payment of £499. Mr 
N said hed give more information  to Halifax  if asked.
In Halifaxs letter of 26 October 2018  it said Mr N had given three different  reasons 
for raising  the dispute. Halifax wanted  evidence from Mr N  to prove his payment 
£499 should be using  the chargeback facility. Halifax said Mr N didnt give them the 
evidence. Halifax  also said because the payment of £499 was to pay  off some of the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ns credit  card, Mr N had already received a service from 
his credit  card provider. Halifax said because Mr N had received the service he paid 
for, then it was highly  unlikely he would get the £499 back.
Mr N says he did give Halifax evidence to show  he was right. And Mr N is unhappy 
with the service he received from Halifax  when  asking for the money  back.
Because Mr N and Halifax couldnt  agree, Mr N asked the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to look into the complaint.
An adjudicator at the Financial  Ombudsman Service looked at Mr Ns complaint, and 
decided Halifax  were  right, and Mr N was wrong. The adjudicator  decided Halifax 
didnt have to refund Mr N £499  or a transaction of £128.16  which Mr N  had 
mentioned previously.  Mr N didnt agree,  so the complaint has  been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided Mr 
N doesnt get the money back. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN77742172chargeback
Halifax doesnt have  to process chargebacks, but its considered  good practice to  do 
so.
Chargebacks are done through the relevant card scheme  VISA, MasterCard or 
AmEx. In Mr Ns case the VISA  rules apply. Halifax followed VISAs rules which say 
they have  to get evidence  to prove  a chargeback claim.
Halifax say Mr N didnt  give any evidence. Mr N says he did.  In Halifaxs letter of 
26 October 2018 Halifax  asked  Mr N:
 
To tell them what his credit card provider had agreed  to do
Evidence  to show his credit card provider  hadnt done what they told Mr N 
they would do
Evidence  to show Mr N had told his credit  card provider  it hadnt been done, 
and they still wouldnt do anything
Ive looked at everything Mr N gave Halifax. Mr N didnt give Halifax all of this 
information. Mr N emailed Halifax to tell them what his credit  card provider had said, 
and sent Halifax  the terms and conditions of the account. But Mr N didnt give Halifax 
evidence his credit card provider hadnt  done what Mr N says was agreed. Mr N also 
didnt give Halifax evidence to show  his credit card provider hadnt  done what they 
had agreed to do. In effect,  the VISA rules state that  any chargeback has  to have a 
chance of winning   and if it doesnt,  then Halifax dont have to  try to get the £499 or 
£128.16 back. Without evidence its unlikely Mr Ns chargeback would be successful. 
So Halifax didnt  have to try and get the money  back, because Mr N didnt  give 
Halifax the evidence asked for.
Halifax also said chargebacks can be raised  if a service  isnt provided, but Halifax 
said the service  had been provided, as Mr Ns credit card provider had given him 
credit. Mr N had made a purchase using his credit card for  the sum of  £499 which  
had been approved  by his credit  card provider and monies taken from his available 
credit balance on the credit card.
This is correct. Mr Ns credit  card provider has agreed a credit limit on  his credit card. 
Mr N borrowed some money on the credit  card when  he used the card to  buy an item 
from an internet store. Mr N repaid  that borrowing when  he sent £499 and £128.16 to 
his credit  card provider to pay his credit card bill. Mr N did receive the service  which 
he paid his credit card provider for. So Mr N doesnt get the money  back for this 
reason either.
phone calls with Halifax
Mr N says Halifax were rude on the phone. Ive listened to the phone  calls and I dont 
agree with Mr N. Im satisfied Halifaxs  representatives tried to help Mr N when  
speaking to him.
Ref: DRN77742173my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N  to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7774217