K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr B between  July 2016 
and November 2017. Loan  1 was to be repaid over 17 weeks and loans 2 to 5 over 12 
months. This is a summary of Mr Bs lending history from Satsuma. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 06/07/2016 04/11/2016 300
2 10/06/2016 11/04/2017 600
3 28/12/2016 21/10/2017 1000
4 19/04/2017 21/10/2017 500
5 22/11/2017 24/01/2018 910
Our adjudicator thought the loans from loan 4 onwards  shouldnt  have been given. Satsuma 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN74585332There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Satsuma needed  to do more when it approved loans 1 and 2. And whilst I dont think  it 
carried out proportionate checks for loan 3, from the available evidence I dont think it would 
most likely have made a different lending decision had it done so. So I dont think  Satsuma 
was wrong to give loans  1 to 3 to Mr B.
However, had Satsuma carried out proportionate checks  for loan 4, I think it would have 
made a different lending decision. I say this because Ive looked  at Mr Bs bank statements 
from around that time to see what better checks would  have shown  Satsuma. And I can see 
that by this stage  Mr B was spending  a very significant proportion  of his income on gambling. 
I think had Satsuma been aware of this it would have realised that Mr Bs finances were  
under pressure and he was having problems managing his money. So it was unlikely  this 
loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Mr B. It follows I dont think Satsuma should 
have given loan 4 to Mr B.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached at loan 
5. I say this because:
Mr Bs first loan was for £300  and loan 5 was for £910. At this point Satsuma ought to 
have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. And it was most likely that Mr Bs indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma.  Loan  5 was 
taken out 16 months after Mr Bs first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr B had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Satsuma over an extended 
period.  
Ref: DRN74585333I think that Mr B lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
this loan was likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability  to access  
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
I have carefully considered Satsumas response  to our adjudicators view. In summary,  it 
explained the checks it had carried out on eligibility,  affordability and credit worthiness. It 
said in each instances the loans  it had given were affordable  for Mr B. And it argues the 
payment history of loans  1 to 5 show no evidence  of Mr B having  difficulties. But Satsuma 
was required to do more  than check Mr B could afford  each individual  loan on a strict  pounds  
and pence basis.  It had to ensure Mr Bs borrowing was sustainably  affordable,  and for the 
reasons Ive set out above I think from loan 4 onwards there  were  indications this was not 
the case. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5 onwards, and Satsuma should put 
things right. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Bs credit file
any information recorded about  loan 5 is adverse, so the entry  about  loan 5 should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans)  should  pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7458533