K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Bank of Scotland PLC has recorded  adverse information against his credit  
file concerning his mortgage with the bank and failed to update  his address.
background
Mr L and his former partner had a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. When Mr Ls relationship 
broke down  he moved out of the house subject to the mortgage. He says he told the bank 
that he had moved  into rented accommodation in 2016. Mr L says he and his former partner 
agreed that his former partner would make  the mortgage payments. But in the summer  of 
2017 he received  a letter saying the loan was in serious arrears and that the house  would be 
repossessed in 15 days. Subsequently the mortgage was redeemed following the sale of the 
house. Bank of Scotland has reported  the history  of the mortgage  including  the missed  
payments - to credit reference agencies.
When Mr L received the letter threatening repossession in 2017 he phoned  the bank. In the 
call he complained about not being  kept informed  and the adverse implications for his credit  
file. Bank  of Scotland paid him £250 for the distress and inconvenience  and £15 for the 
expense incurred. The bank  also said it would  amend his credit file for the months  of April, 
May, June,  July and August 2017.  Shortly after this he went to see a broker about taking out 
a mortgage. Mr L was rejected for a mortgage and says he was told it was due to missed 
payments on his mortgage. 
He contacted the bank  again in April 2018  to find out why his credit report  had not been 
amended. The bank paid him a further £200  for the inconvenience and informed him that his 
original request to amend his credit  file had not been  completed, but it would  be now. In 
May 2018 the bank contacted him to inform that it would not be amending his credit  file, and 
that the previous agreement to do this was incorrect. The main issue it raised was the fact 
that he was jointly liable  with his ex-partner to maintain payments for the mortgage.  
However, as an apology it then made a further  payment of £300 to his account, taking the 
total compensation paid to £750.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt it was Mr Ls 
responsibility to ensure  the mortgage  payments  were made. He understood Mr Ls 
frustration at being told his credit  file would be amended but felt the £765 compensation 
already paid by Bank of Scotland was fair.
Mr L disagrees. He thinks Bank  of Scotland should have done more to try and contact him 
when the arrears occurred. He also says given the additional expenses he had to incur now 
he was renting a property  he couldnt have been expected to contribute  his share of the 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls upset about  what has happened here. But Im afraid Im going  to 
disappoint him as I dont  think  it would be fair to uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN77799422I think it is most likely  Mr L did inform  the bank of his new address and it failed  to update  its 
records. Mr L has said that he and his former partner agreed she would contact him if she 
was struggling to make payments. He has also said given his additional  expenses  from 
renting he would have had difficulty paying the mortgage. In these circumstances Im not 
satisfied that had Mr L received correspondence about the arrears from Bank of Scotland he 
would have been in a position to do anything about  it. The bank has already paid Mr L a 
significant amount  of compensation  so I wont be asking it to do anything further for failing to 
update the address.
Mr L and his partner  made a private arrangement about the mortgage payments. The 
arrangement wasnt  binding on Bank  of Scotland and they both remained liable for the 
payments. So I cant agree that Bank of Scotland was wrong to record missed  payments 
against him. It is very unfortunate that Bank of Scotland promised to amend his credit file to 
remove some of the adverse information.  I can imagine it must have been very upsetting to 
discover this will not now happen. But given the significant compensation already paid to 
Mr L Im not going to ask Bank of Scotland to do anything more.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7779942