K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the settlement amount Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has 
offered for her costs following a fall while  she was abroad.  And shes unhappy with the way 
the claim was handled. 
Mrs Ms complaint is brought on her behalf by her son, Mr M. My references to Mr M will also 
include Mr Ms wife. And my references  to URV will also include  its agents. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive included a copy 
below and it forms part of this my final decision.  
In summary,  I said I was intending to uphold this complaint  and direct  URV to pay for all 
private medical costs  incurred during  Mrs Ms hospital admissions abroad, the transfers  
between the hospitals and the total cost of the air ambulance. And £1,000  for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused to Mrs M. I also said I intended to direct  URV to pay interest at 
8% simple  on the settlement from the date Mrs Ms claim was originally made to the date 
she receives the full settlement. 
Mrs M fell whilst abroad. I explained that I thought there were  unnecessary  delays in URVs 
handling of the claim.  And occasions when it should have been more  proactive and 
supportive. And I said I thought URV hadnt  settled the claim fairly. 
I asked URV  and Mrs M to let me know if they had anything further to add.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision on behalf of Mrs M and said he had no further 
comments.
URV also responded to my provisional decision.  In summary it said it didnt think  Mrs Ms 
family had mitigated the cost of the air ambulance by obtaining  more  than quote. It said on 
average it would have paid £21,500  for the journey, so it said it thought  this was 
a reasonable amount for it to pay. 
I responded to URV letting it know I would consider any further points it wanted to raise. 
However, I said based on the evidence Id seen, I thought Mrs Ms family  had mitigated their 
costs. 
URV confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision which said: 
complaint
Mrs M complains about the settlement amount Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) 
has offered for her costs following a fall while  she was abroad.  And shes unhappy 
with the way the claim was handled.  
Ref: DRN78236042Mrs Ms complaint is brought on her behalf by her son, Mr M. My references to Mr M 
will also include Mr Ms wife. And my references to URV  will also include its agents. 
background
Mrs M held a travel insurance  policy, provided by URV. She was the only person 
named under the policy, although she was travelling with members  of her family.  
Mrs M unfortunately suffered a fall while she was abroad. She was taken to hospital  
where she was diagnosed  with a head injury,  spinal cord compression and severe 
bruising.
Mr M contacted URVs emergency  assistance  helpline. He said Mrs M was waiting 
for an MRI scan and said the hospital  had said she likely needed  surgery  or to be 
repatriated to the UK on a stretcher.  
URV told Mr M the hospital Mrs M had been  taken to was private and said her policy  
didnt provide cover for this. It said Mrs M needed  to be moved to a public hospital if it 
was medically safe to do so. And it said it needed Mr M to obtain a medical report  
from the hospital so that it could decide  whether it was best for Mrs M to be 
repatriated to the UK or operated on abroad. Mr M explained that theyd taken Mrs M 
to the nearest hospital, not knowing it was private.  
Private medical care generally isnt covered  under Mrs Ms policy. The terms say 
URV wont pay for private  treatment unless its agreed this, and adequate  public 
facilities are unavailable.  
Two days later Mr M called URV again. He had transferred Mrs M to a public hospital 
as requested, but said he was very concerned by the standard  of care.  He said she 
was left on a trolley in a corridor for 36 hours  and wasnt provided with any 
medication, pain relief or toileting care. He said Mrs M has diabetes  and wasnt 
provided with her necessary medication. And he told URV the public hospital had 
said it wasnt prepared to operate  on Mrs M due to her age and the brittleness of her 
bones. He said the public  hospital recommended Mrs M bought a back  brace  to wear 
from an orthopaedic shop,  in order  to board a regular seated flight back to the UK. 
Mr M told URV that due to the lack of care Mrs M was receiving at the public hospital, 
he was concerned for her survival. So he said hed arranged for the original private 
hospital to collect  and transport Mrs M back to its facility.  
Mr M told URV Mrs M was back at the private  hospital at this point. He said theyd 
told him Mrs M was at risk of paralysis if her condition  went  untreated. But the 
hospital was no longer  prepared to operate on Mrs M due to her deteriorated 
condition. And Mr M said the hospital recommended an urgent repatriation  to the UK. 
Mr M said because  of this, he had looked into arranging an air ambulance. URV 
asked about the cost Mr M had been quoted and he confirmed this was 
approximately £31,000. URV said Mr M could  submit  a claim for the air ambulance 
costs and asked  him to send the medical reports so that it could review them.  
Over the following days Mr M encountered difficulties communicating with URV - 
partly due to the person handling the case being  unavailable, and also other 
Ref: DRN78236043confusion on URVs part, such as it not knowing who had left Mr M a voicemail.  And 
URV didnt  always call Mr M back by the times it had promised. 
After receiving the medical  report,  URVs Chief Medical Officer (CMO)  contacted 
Mr M just over 24 hours  later. He asked  whether Mr M had already paid for the air 
ambulance and Mr M confirmed that he had. 
URVs CMO said he couldnt make any recommendation as Mrs M hadnt waited to 
be evaluated by a spinal surgeon at the public  hospital. Mr M explained that this 
hadnt been possible due to the lack of basic care Mrs M had received.
Mr M asked  URV if it was best for him to continue with the air ambulance hed 
booked, or if URV had a better suggestion.  URVs CMO  said:
seeing as youve  already paid them £32,000  for bringing her back  to the 
United Kingdom,  if youve already paid it, youre  not going to get your money 
back from them. The way to have  dealt with this in a nutshell is if youd said to 
us  were  definitely  arranging our own air ambulance  they would have 
provided the names and contact details of three  companies we use.. 
URV told Mr M it thought  he should  go ahead with his planned repatriation. 
Towards the end of the call, URV  gave  Mr M the name of an air ambulance  company 
which it considered  to be a preferred supplier. However Mr M said he didnt want  to 
change his plans  at that stage. 
Mrs M was transferred back to the UK the following morning, using the air ambulance 
arranged and paid for by Mr M. She was then transferred to a public hospital in the 
UK. Mr M said he was told that due to the delay in Mrs Ms treatment, she had to be 
admitted to the trauma unit. He said the treating doctors advised Mrs M was too ill to 
undergo an operation, and she remained in hospital for three weeks. 
Mrs M was later transferred  to a private  rehabilitation  care facility for seven  weeks. 
Mr M said Mrs M can no longer go out alone and requires regular support from 
carers. 
Mr M complained to URV  about the service itd provided.
URV agreed  it hadnt always provided  the right standard of communication, and 
offered a payment of £300. 
Ref: DRN78236044URV said it couldnt reimburse  the air ambulance costs  Mr M had paid. It said it 
wouldnt have recommended the use of an air ambulance  in the circumstances  and 
would have instead suggested recovery in a hotel followed by a commercial return  
flight supported by a nurse. And it said Mrs M could have been accompanied by one 
additional person. It said it thought this would likely have cost around £5,000. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr M brought his complaint to us. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. She asked URV to explain how 
itd calculated its offer of £5,000 and clarified that Mrs M hadnt been  operated  on 
abroad. 
URV increased its offer to £8,470. It said this was the amount it would have paid to 
cover a stretcher flight, nurse escorts, flights and accommodation for the nurses,  and 
road ambulances to and from the airports. 
Our investigator said she thought URV  hadnt  dealt with the claim  promptly  or fairly. 
She said URV hadnt arranged repatriation despite medical  evidence  showing that 
Mrs Ms condition  was very serious. She said URV had failed to arrange transfers to 
and from the hospitals  and delayed  looking at medical reports and offering a solution. 
She said URV wasnt responsible for the costs of the treatment at the private 
hospital, as this wasnt covered under Mrs Ms policy. However  she said she thought 
URV should pay the claim for the costs of the air ambulance, and said it should  pay 
Mrs M £1,000 in compensation. 
Mr M responded, accepting the investigators view on behalf  of Mrs M. 
URV said it accepted  it should pay something  towards the cost of the air ambulance. 
However, it said it disputed that it should  pay the full costs  and said it thought it 
should only pay the same  costs it would have paid if one of its approved  suppliers 
had been used. 
As URV disagreed with the investigators  findings,  the case has been  passed to me 
to make a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, I appreciate Mrs M has been  through an extremely distressing experience. 
And Ive noted  what Mr M has said about  the lack of care shown to Mrs M when she 
was at the public hospital. However,  I must point out that any failings of the public 
healthcare facility Mrs M attended are not something  which URV can be held 
accountable for. My role is to decide whether URV  responded  appropriately and 
treated Mrs M fairly in all the circumstances. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. They 
also say the insurer  should provide reasonable guidance to the insured throughout 
the claim.  Im not persuaded that URV  fulfilled its responsibilities in the 
Ref: DRN78236045circumstances of this case,  as I think there  were unnecessary delays and occasions 
where URV  should  have been  more  proactive  and supportive when handling the 
claim. Ill explain why. 
the policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms policy say that the insurer  will not pay for: 
costs of private treatment unless our 24 hour Emergency Assistance Facilities 
service has agreed and adequate public facilities are not available
and 
the cost of early repatriation when medical  treatment  of a standard acceptable  by 
our medical director is available locally. 
first admission to the private hospital  
Mrs M was taken  to the nearest hospital to where she was staying. Although Mrs Ms 
family have  a home on the island, Mr M explained  that he didnt know the hospital 
was private. And he said they were really  concerned  about Mrs Ms condition. I bear 
in mind that Mrs M was elderly and the family  had noticed deterioration in her 
condition. I can also see that the public facility  Mrs M was ultimately taken to was 50 
miles away from where they were staying.  
I dont think it was unreasonable  to use the nearest hospital in the circumstances of 
this case and therefore I think URV should cover the cost of Mrs Ms admission. 
transfer to the public hospital 
As private  medical treatment isnt covered by Mrs Ms policy,  I dont think it was 
unreasonable for URV to request she was transferred to a public hospital where her 
treatment costs would have been  covered by EHIC  (the European health  insurance 
card). 
However, I think in the circumstances URV  ought  reasonably to have arranged the 
transfer between  hospitals, particularly given  Mrs Ms age and the nature of her 
injuries. And I also think it would have  been  reasonable  to expect URV to contact the 
public hospital  in advance, to ensure Mrs M could be admitted  and the treatment she 
needed was available. Ive seen no evidence that URV made  contact with the public 
hospital or that it provided any support with Mrs Ms transfer. And because  of this, I 
think URV should cover the costs Mr M paid to transport Mrs M from the private to 
the public  hospital. 
After advising Mr M that Mrs M needed to transfer to a public hospital, Ive seen no 
evidence that URV  made further contact  with him to check the transfer had been  
made, or to get an update  on Mrs Ms condition, which I think  would  have been  
reasonable. The next contact wasnt until Mr M got back in touch with URV.  Given 
Mrs Ms situation, and the nature of her injuries, I think it would have been 
reasonable for URV  to take a proactive approach and maintain a good level of 
communication with Mrs Ms family  and keep  updated about the situation, either by 
contact with the family or the hospital.  
Ref: DRN78236046transfer back to the private hospital.  
Theres no discharge report available  from the public hospital for me to review. 
However I accept what Mr M has said about the lack of treatment and care Mrs M 
received and the hospitals refusal  to operate. I say this because Mr M has been  
consistent in his recollection  and explanations.  And also because I think  its unlikely 
Mr M would have transferred Mrs M between hospitals again,  considering  her spinal 
injury, unless he felt this was absolutely necessary. 
Mrs Ms policy doesnt provide cover  for private  medical treatment when adequate 
public facilities are available. But, it does have the discretion to authorise private 
treatment in certain situations. I think its reasonable to conclude that it would have 
been appropriate to exercise that discretion given the lack of care Mrs M received at 
the public  hospital and the hospitals refusal  to operate on her. 
Mr M arranged for Mrs M to be moved back to the original  private  facility  without  
authorisation from URV. However, URV hadnt  kept in contact with Mr M. During the 
first three days following Mr M initially notifying  URV of Mrs Ms injury,  Ive seen no 
evidence that URV  made any attempts to contact  him for updates. The only contact 
Ive seen was when Mr M made calls to URV.  So, Mr M wasnt  being provided with 
support or guidance by URV about what he should do. Because of this, I think the 
action he took was reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
URV had said there were  other public  hospitals  a greater distance away which  Mrs M 
could have been taken to. However, considering Mrs M was suffering with damage to 
her spine, was already  deteriorating and was in pain, I think it would have been  unfair  
for her to have been transferred between hospitals for a third time. URV didnt give 
Mr M guidance at the time as to which  public  hospital would be best for Mrs M. So its 
unclear to me how Mr M was expected to know this. 
So for these reasons, I think URV  should  pay the claim for the costs incurred by 
Mrs M during her second admission to the private hospital, and for the second 
transfer between  the hospitals. 
URVs review  of the medical report 
URV received the medical report  from Mr M three  days after his first call to tell it 
about Mrs Ms condition. Ive seen no evidence that URV attempted to obtain the 
report from the hospital directly. And after receiving the medical  report from Mr M, 
URV took more than 24 hours to review  it and respond.  
Considering the severity  of Mrs Ms condition, I think URV  should have obtained the 
medical report directly from the hospital.  And for the same  reasons,  once  URV  
received the report, it should have  reviewed it and responded  within a shorter  
timescale. So based on this, Im not satisfied that URV dealt with the claim promptly 
in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN78236047repatriation 
URV said Mrs M hadnt waited to be evaluated by a spinal  surgeon at the public 
hospital, so it was unable to propose a solution  for her. I dont think this was 
reasonable. Firstly because of what Mr M had told URV of the standard  of care 
Mrs M received at the public hospital, and also their refusal to operate. So it seems 
unlikely she was going to receive an evaluation  by the spinal  surgeon  there.  I also 
bear in mind  URV had failed to keep  in contact with Mr M to provide support and 
advice about what needed to happen.  
URV received a medical report from Mrs Ms first admission to the private hospital, 
but no report was provided by the public hospital.  Mr M said he was verbally told that 
the hospital wouldnt operate on Mrs M. I find his testimony to be credible, consistent 
and persuasive.
I think the medical report provided  by the private  hospital dated 3 March  constitutes 
the strongest  medical evidence in this case.  Its in written form and demonstrates that 
Mrs M had undergone scans and other tests to diagnose her condition.  The report  
said: informed of the likelihood of requiring surgical treatment, with the risks 
associated with the patients poor bone quality.  She can be moved to her country  of 
origin on a stretcher..  
So I think URV had received  sufficient medical evidence upon  which to make  a 
decision. And considering Mrs Ms age and condition, I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome would have  been for URV to have made  a decision about its repatriation  
plan for her within a few hours of receiving that report. 
If URV had contacted  the hospital  to obtain  the medical report directly,  I think it would 
have received it faster, and could have  made  a decision about  the support it would 
offer to Mrs M within a much shorter timeframe. Ive not seen any evidence  that URV 
was proactive in seeking input from the hospitals about the treatment and 
recommendations for Mrs Ms repatriation during her stays  at either hospital. 
URV has accepted  that its communication with Mr M wasnt  of the right standard. 
Based on my review  of the call recordings and system notes, I dont think  URV  
maintained clear and frequent  enough communication. It failed to provide adequate 
support and it didnt  expedite  obtaining and reviewing the medical  report  after being  
told Mrs M was at risk of paralysis. And because  of this, I think  URV put Mr M in a 
position where he felt he had no choice  but to arrange an air ambulance  himself.  
Mr M told URV he was planning to arrange  an air ambulance around a day and a half 
prior to the call with the CMO. And he discussed this again on other calls with URVs 
assistance line. URV had asked  Mr M how much he had been  quoted  for the air 
ambulance, and he confirmed the cost. However  he wasnt told of any preferred 
suppliers to use during  any of these calls.
During the call with URVs CMO, Mr M asked for a proposed solution, or for an 
alternative or better  option to the air ambulance  repatriation he had booked. URV 
initially didnt  offer Mr M any other options, and suggested he go ahead with his own 
air repatriation as it had been booked and paid for. 
Ref: DRN78236048URV told Mr M that the air ambulance provider he had chosen to use was one of the 
most expensive. And towards the end of the call, suggested an alternate air 
ambulance provider which may have cost less. At this point the original air 
ambulance was scheduled to collect Mrs M the following morning and Mr M declined  
to change the plans. 
When URV advised Mr M of an alternative  air ambulance supplier he could use, it 
was just under 12 hours from the planned  departure. I think it was unlikely that Mr M 
could have cancelled  his original air ambulance  booking and obtained  a refund at 
that late stage. And even  if it was possible to cancel, I think it would have been 
unreasonable for Mrs Ms repatriation to have been further delayed.
Mr M wasnt given  details  of any preferred suppliers until his call with URVs CMO the 
night before his booked  air ambulance flight.  And URV said that if Mr M had told it he 
was definitely  going to book an air ambulance, it would have given details of three 
preferred suppliers. Ive established  that Mr M had previously told URV of his 
intention to book  an air ambulance a day and a half earlier. Hed confirmed the cost 
of the quote and hadnt been given  details of any suppliers he should use. So 
because of this, I think  URV  missed  its earlier opportunity to mitigate  the costs of the 
repatriation. 
I also bear in mind the contents of an internal call Ive been  provided with, which 
seems to indicate URV was considering air ambulance repatriation. Also in this call, 
URV referred to £40,000 as not being  an unreasonable cost for the air ambulance 
journey. So this is at odds  with what URVs CMO told Mr M about the cost of the air 
ambulance he had booked. 
URV said its preferred  plan was for Mrs M to be operated on and then stay in a hotel  
to recover. But neither hospital would  operate. I note that neither would the hospital  
in the UK on Mrs Ms return and she also needed  weeks of rehabilitation. So URVs 
repatriation plan doesnt seem realistic bearing  in mind the overall circumstances of 
the case  therefore Im not persuaded it responded appropriately to Mrs Ms 
situation. Even if URV takes the view it may not have  been medically necessary to 
repatriate Mrs M, in the absence of meaningful assistance from URV,  I think  the 
course of action the family took was reasonable in all the circumstances. So I think  
its fair that URV reimburse the air ambulance costs  in full. 
rehabilitation and ongoing support  costs 
Im very sorry to hear that Mrs M has not fully recovered from her injury  and now 
needs ongoing support.  Ive considered whether or not URVs handling of the 
repatriation claim was detrimental to Mrs Ms health and whether this prejudiced the 
eventual treatment she received. However  Ive not been provided with any medical 
evidence which persuades me that this is the case.  
Mrs M claimed  for rehabilitation  costs  she had to pay after she was discharged from 
hospital in the UK. However,  treatment  costs incurred after returning to the UK are 
specifically excluded by Mrs Ms policy. So I dont think URV needs to pay anything 
towards this. 
Ref: DRN78236049Overall, as Ive explained, I dont  think URV  provided adequate support following 
Mrs Ms injury  abroad. Ultimately the medical report URV received supported  the 
need for her to be operated  on or repatriated to the UK by stretcher. And two 
hospitals had refused  to operate on her. So, given the lack of support available  or 
alternative suggestions from URV, I think Mr M was left in a position where he had to 
arrange repatriation.
Although URV may have  been able to arrange  an air ambulance at a lower cost, or a 
suitable alternative repatriation to the UK, it didnt make a decision about the support 
it would  offer Mrs M within  an acceptable  timeframe in the circumstances. And as Ive 
said, I think it was reasonable that Mr M made his own arrangements in the absence 
of sufficient support  or action from URV, given Mrs Ms condition. 
URV accepted that its medical  emergency  helpline didnt offer the right level of 
customer service  in terms of keeping in contact  and responding promptly. And it 
offered £300 in compensation  to recognise  this. Based on the evidence Ive seen of 
the delays caused by URV and its lack of proactive contact, I think £1,000  is more  
reflective of the substantial distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M. 
Mrs M is the only named  policyholder in this case. And because of this, I cant  make  
an award to Mr M or any other family members for the personal distress they 
experienced.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think URV should pay the claim for the cost of the 
air ambulance arranged  by Mr M, all transfers between the hospitals abroad  and the 
costs of Mrs Ms admissions to the private hospital abroad. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend  to direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay the 
claim for the following: 
all transfers between  the hospitals  abroad; 
all private  medical costs incurred during both of Mrs Ms admissions  abroad;
the total cost of the air ambulance; and
£1,000 for the material distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M. 
I also intend to direct URV to pay interest at 8% simple on the total settlement 
amount from the date Mrs Ms claim was originally made to the date she receives  the 
full settlement.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive taken into account the points  raised  by URV  in response to my provisional decision. But 
they havent changed my thoughts about  the overall outcome of this case.  I say that 
because:
In a call between Mr M and URVs CMO, prior to Mrs M being  flown  home, Mr M said 
he had contacted other  air ambulance providers and had chosen to book with the 
Ref: DRN782360410one which  was the cheapest. During this call, URV  didnt ask Mr M for any evidence  
of the quotes,  and Ive seen no evidence that it has done so since.  
I think if URV wanted to check that Mr M had obtained more than one quote for an air 
ambulance journey,  it should have asked  him to provide  evidence  of the other quotes 
as part of its assessment  of the claim. 
Im satisfied  based on what Mr M said during the call Ive referred to, that he 
attempted to mitigate the cost of the air ambulance  journey by obtaining more than 
one quote and selecting to use the cheapest provider. I accept what Mr M said about 
this because the rest of his testimony has been consistent and persuasive. 
Further to this, as I explained  in my provisional decision, in an internal call between  
URV members of staff,  an opinion was given that £40,000 was not an unreasonable  
cost for the air ambulance flight. This is at odds  with what  URV has now said about 
the average cost of a similar flight being  £21,500. So Im not persuaded that the 
amount Mr M paid for the air ambulance he booked was extraordinary  or excessive. 
As the points URV raised havent changed my mind, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I direct Union Reiseversicherung  AG to pay the claim for the 
following: 
all transfers between  the hospitals  abroad; 
all private  medical costs incurred during both of Mrs Ms admissions  abroad;
the total cost of the air ambulance; and
£1,000 for the material distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M. 
URV must also pay interest at 8% simple  on the total settlement amount from the date 
Mrs Ms claim was originally made  to the date she receives the full settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7823604