K820x#14complaint
Mrs S and Mr H, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs C, complain that Pension Insurance  
Corporation plc (PIC) failed to communicate in an efficient  and timely  manner. As a result 
Mrs C missed out on benefits she was due from the commutation of a dependents pension  
following the death of her husband (Mr C).
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
May 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. PIC has said that it 
doesnt wish to provide  anything  further. Mrs S has provided us with some  extensive 
comments. Although  I am only summarising here what Mrs S has said, I have considered  
her entire response carefully before writing this decision.
Mrs S has provided us with some  further  details of the events that happened around the time 
of the death of her parents. She says that she made it clear to PIC that due to the 
hospitalisation of her mother, and the distances  her brother was needing to travel, all 
correspondence regarding her fathers benefits should be sent to her address. She says that 
on a number of occasions PIC failed to follow that instruction and sent letters  to her mothers 
address.
Mrs S says that the letter offering her mother the commuted benefits was sent the day 
before Mrs C returned from hospital. But her mother remained  seriously  ill at that time,  and 
was in no condition  to deal with matters  of this sort. She says that if those letters had been 
sent to her, as the administrator of her fathers estate, she could have ensured  the election  
was completed by her mother in good  time.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I would like to apologise to Mrs S and Mr H for the error I made  in my 
provisional decision when  recording the date their mother  passed away. That date should 
have been recorded in my decision as 12 September 2017 rather  than the incorrect date 
I used of 8 September. I hope  that this error hasnt increased the upset I know my 
provisional decision has caused them.
I appreciate that a number of our adjudicators have considered  this complaint and 
recommended it should  be upheld. But following an adjudicator considering  a complaint  
either party is entitled to ask that the case be decided by an ombudsman. An ombudsman 
will carry out a new and independent review of the complaint  looking again at everything 
both parties have told us. Theyll look at what has been said about  the complaint so far. And 
then theyll  make up their own mind about  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its possible that the ombudsman will reach  a different conclusion to the adjudicator whos 
already looked  into the complaint. 
Ref: DRN72452682And that is what has happened here. PIC asked for the complaint  to be decided  by an 
ombudsman. And having  considered all the evidence that has been provided I have reached 
a different conclusion to our adjudicators. I appreciate that Mrs S says that she, and her 
brother, have been led into a false sense of security about the outcome of the complaint. 
And I apologise if that has been the case.  But it seems to me that the letters they have been  
sent have carefully  explained that the outcome an ombudsman  could reach might  be 
different to those that have gone before.
PIC was dealing with Mrs S and Mr H as executors of their fathers  estate. It was not dealing  
with them  in any other capacity, and in particular it had no authority to deal with them  in 
relation to the affairs of their mother and her entitlement  to receive a dependents pension.  
So I cant agree  with Mrs S that PIC should  have carried over the instructions she gave  it 
about dealing  with her fathers affairs when it begun dealing with her mother  as a beneficiary  
in her own right. That would have breached its responsibilities under the data protection  
regulations in force at the time.
So having  said that, I think PIC was right to address the letters  about the benefits payable  to 
Mrs C to her directly.  And since the only address it held for Mrs C was her home,  that is 
where the letters were  sent. I think that the letter about these benefits was issued in a timely 
manner, although  I would  agree with Mrs S that some other aspects  of PICs dealings with 
her, in her capacity  as an executor of her late fathers estate, were less efficient.
Mrs S says that the health issues her mother  was experiencing meant  that she was unable 
to deal with the correspondence from PIC before her death.  And as I said in my provisional  
decision it seems highly likely that, given her failing health, Mrs C would have chosen to take 
the single  lump sum rather  than an on-going annuity. But that wasnt a decision Mrs C 
communicated to PIC and so I remain of the opinion  that PIC was left with little choice but to 
implement the default option in these circumstances  and pay an on-going  dependents  
pension to Mrs C.
Mrs S has said she is disappointed that I have reached  my decision without speaking  to her 
by telephone. I intend no discourtesy by not doing  so. But given the extent of the evidence  
she has provided to us, and the lack of dispute  about the core facts of the complaint, I dont 
consider such a conversation to be necessary. I have needed to decide whether PIC should 
have discussed  the benefits due to Mrs C with Mrs S, and without her prior agreement. And 
I feel able to reasonably  reach a conclusion on that point on the basis of the evidence I have 
before me.
PIC has accepted  that it might have been  more proactive in its communications with Mrs S 
and Mr H. I can see that it returned  some documents  following Mr Cs death to Mrs C despite 
them being  sent in by Mrs S, and knowing that Mrs C was in hospital. And it could have let 
Mrs S and Mr H know that it had written to Mrs C directly about the dependents pension,  
although I dont  consider  this was something  it was required to do. So I think  the offer PIC 
has made of £500  to reflect the trouble and upset this has caused is reasonable and I will 
direct PIC to make that payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint. 
But Pension Insurance Corporation plc should  make  a payment of £500,  in line with its 
previous offer, to the estate of Mrs C.
Ref: DRN72452683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr H, 
on behalf of the estate  of the late Mrs C, to accept  or reject  my decision before 
17 August 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72452684EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S and Mr H, on behalf  of the estate of the late Mrs C, complain that Pension Insurance  
Corporation plc (PIC)  failed to communicate in an efficient and timely manner. As a result Mrs C 
missed out on benefits  she was due from the commutation  of a dependents pension following the 
death of her husband  (Mr C).
background
Mr C sadly  passed away in June 2017. He was in receipt of a pension  being  paid by PIC that provided 
benefits on his death. Those benefits comprised  a payment of a grant intended to cover  the funeral  
costs of Mr C, and a dependents pension  that would be payable to his wife, Mrs C.
At the time of Mr Cs death, Mrs C was seriously  ill in hospital. Mr Cs daughter-in-law notified PIC of 
his death and asked that the necessary documentation be sent to her address.  This documentation  
was issued  three  days later on 3 July but not returned to PIC until 11 August. That documentation 
confirmed that Mrs C was a married dependent of Mr C.
On 20 August PIC wrote  to Mrs C to tell her about the dependents benefits  she would  be due. It 
confirmed that she would be paid a dependents pension of approximately £1,500 per year.  Or it gave 
her the opportunity to exchange those benefits for a single  lump sum of just over £16,000. It asked 
her to return a form indicating  which option she wished to choose.
Although Mrs C left hospital on 22 August she remained ill, and needed to return to hospital  on 2 
September. Mrs C sadly  died on 8 September without  having returned the paperwork to PIC.
Without that paperwork  having  been  completed PIC advised Mrs S that it was unable  to pay the single 
lump sum. Instead it made a payment  to Mrs Cs estate equivalent to the monthly pension she was 
entitled to receive between June and September. That amounted to just under £500. Unhappy with 
that response Mrs S and Mr H brought a complaint,  on behalf  of their late mother, to this Service.
This complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He thought  that PIC had failed to send 
the pension payment paperwork  to the correct address  he thought  PIC should have used the same 
address as it had been given in relation to the death of Mr C. And so he thought  that Mrs C had been 
denied a reasonable opportunity to elect to take the single lump  sum. He was persuaded  that was the 
option that Mrs C would have chosen. And so he thought the complaint should  be upheld  and asked 
PIC to pay the amount of the lump sum as compensation to Mrs Cs estate.
PIC didnt agree with that assessment. It considered  that its responsibility to respect the privacy of 
Mrs C meant that it had to write to her direct about the pension benefits  she was due. But PIC 
accepted that it could have  been more proactive in letting  Mrs S and Mr H know that was what it 
needed to do. So it offered to pay the estate £500 as a gesture of goodwill. 
That offer was rejected by Mrs S and Mr H. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN72452685At the outset I would like to say how very sad I was to hear about the losses that Mrs S and Mr H 
suffered in 2017. I appreciate what  a difficult time this must have been for them and would like to pass 
on my sincere  condolences.
In deciding this complaint I think I need to be clear that I consider PIC needed  to deal with two 
separate, but to a degree linked, matters. It needed to deal with Mr Cs executors following his death, 
ensuring that the pension benefits due before his death were correctly assessed and paid. And, once 
it had established that Mrs C was due a dependents pension, it needed to deal with her in a personal 
capacity as a new beneficiary of its pension scheme.
The last will and testament of Mr C appointed Mrs C as his executor.  But, if she was unable or 
unwilling to act in that capacity, it appointed Mrs S and Mr H in her place. Given Mrs Cs failing health 
it seems entirely  reasonable  that Mrs S and Mr H administered Mr Cs affairs. I can see that Mr Hs 
wife contacted PIC to advise  it of Mr Cs death.  And she asked that the necessary forms to notify that 
death be sent to her home address. PIC complied  with that request in full.
There was an understandable delay in returning those forms to PIC. Mrs C, as Mr Cs dependent, 
needed to sign and check the information that was being provided.  And it was some time before she 
was well enough to do that. I can also see that on returning those forms Mrs S provided  PIC with her 
address should there be anything that needed to be clarified or amended. I think it was right that she 
did so, as she was taking responsibility  for administering her late fathers affairs.
But once Mrs C had been established as having an entitlement to a dependents pension,  it was her 
that PIC needed  to engage  with about how those new benefits should be paid. It had no authority 
from Mrs C to discuss those matters with anyone else. So I think  PIC acted  entirely correctly  by 
writing to Mrs C at her home address rather than to Mrs S or Mr H who it was dealing with regarding  
the death  of Mr C.
I have seen that Mrs C did return home  the day after PIC wrote to her about the pension  benefits  she 
was due. But I do appreciate that Mrs S says that her mother remained ill and on high doses of 
painkillers at that time. So it is likely that Mrs C might have  not have had an opportunity to consider 
her options.
But I dont think PIC was responsible for Mrs C being unable to make that choice. I think it responded  
quickly and efficiently  to the communication from Mrs C and her family  both in managing Mr Cs death 
and providing information  to Mrs C about the benefits due to her. And I think  it was appropriate  that 
PIC provided details of the benefits due to Mrs C directly to her, rather than to members  of her family 
given it had no authority  to do so. And in any case, since  Mrs C returned home  around the time the 
letter was sent to her about the benefits,  I dont think sending it to Mrs S or Mr H would have meant 
she would have made  a quicker decision.
I can understand the disappointment that Mrs S and Mr H feel. It seems highly likely that, given her 
failing health, Mrs C would have chosen to take the single lump  sum rather than an on-going annuity. 
But that was a decision that Mrs C needed to make and communicate  to PIC. Sadly  she was unable 
to confirm that decision  to PIC before she died. So I think that PIC was left with little choice but to 
implement the default option in these circumstances   and pay an on-going dependents pension to 
Mrs C.
PIC has accepted that it might have  been more  proactive in its communications with Mrs S and Mr H. 
I can see that it returned some documents following Mr Cs death  to Mrs C despite them being sent in 
by Mrs S, and knowing  that Mrs C was in hospital. And it could have let Mrs S and Mr H know that it 
had written to Mrs C directly about the dependents  pension. So I think the offer PIC has made  of 
£500 to reflect the trouble  and upset this has caused is reasonable and I intend to direct PIC to make 
that payment.
Ref: DRN7245268