K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr R says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS  trading as MINT)  mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr R says that it wasnt clear that the PPI policy was optional,  and that he wouldve declined 
the policy of hed known this was the case.  But I think RBS made it clear that Mr R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this as it was so long ago. I say this because RBS has provided  a copy of 
Mr Rs credit card application, which he completed  through the post  and on this I can see 
that the PPI is presented as optional  and has been selected. Mr R has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it. 
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr R so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
Ref: DRN78738552But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr R any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7873855