K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained through his representative that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited has turned down  his claim for benefit under his employers group critical illness 
scheme.
background
Mr M joined his employers  critical  illness  insurance  scheme in January 2016. He was 
diagnosed with stage 2 Dukes  B colon cancer in September 2017. He submitted a claim 
under the group scheme  (policy).  Legal and General turned the claim down by relying on an 
exclusion for subsequent cancer where the insured person has previously suffered from 
cancer, whether  it is related or not. It said Mr M had suffered from testicular  cancer in 1998  
and this meant the exclusion  applied. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Legal and Generals decision to reject  the claim and made a 
complaint. Legal  and General reviewed  his complaint and maintained  it was entitled to 
decline his claim. 
Mr M complained to us through his representative.  His representative raised the following 
issues:
a)Legal and General  has not paid out under the contract of insurance;
b)Legal and General  has failed  to discharge the investigation into the claim diligently;
c)Legal and General  failed to substantiate  its repudiation  of the claim sufficiently;
d)Legal and Generals  repudiation is based  on ambiguous terminology; and
e)the exclusion clause  which  Legal  and General has relied on is discriminatory. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint and ultimately,  she didnt think it 
should be upheld.  She felt Legal  and General was entitled to rely on the exclusion to decline 
his claim.  
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision and the 
complaint was referred to me.
I reviewed the complaint  and then wrote to Legal  and General to explain why I felt it should  
deal with Mr Ms claim without relying  on the exclusion. This was on the basis that its internal 
notes suggested  its reinsurer felt the decision to decline the claim was harsh. From what  
Legal and General have  said,  this appears to have been on the basis that, if the risk Mr M 
presented had been individually underwritten, based on Mr Ms medical history, only 
testicular cancer would  have been  excluded. Given that, I suggested it would not produce  a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint for Legal and General to rely on the exclusion 
for all cancer in these  very particular circumstances. 
I also provided some further evidence  highlighted by Mr Ms representative of Legal and 
Generals current approach under  its group schemes to new unrelated cancers.  And I 
explained why I felt this supported my view on the case.
Legal and General still thinks it should be able to rely on the exclusion to reject Mr Ms claim.  
Its made further representations,  which Ive dealt with in my findings. 
Ref: DRN70607072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
The exclusion Legal  and General is relying  on to reject Mr Ms claim reads as follows:
In addition, where the insured person has been diagnosed with any malignant tumours, 
defined as cancer, we will not pay benefit for any subsequent cancer. For this purpose the 
subsequent cancer  doesnt have to be connected  to, or associated  with, the earlier  diagnosis  
of cancer.
I agree  with Mr Ms representatives  view that its for Legal and General to show on the 
balance of probabilities that Mr M did have cancer  previously, which  also met the definition 
of cancer under the policy. If it can do this then,  technically,  its entitled to rely on the 
exclusion to decline a claim for cancer,  whether  it is related to the previous cancer or not. 
Mr Ms representative has suggested  Legal and General has only relied on Mr Ms own 
recollections as evidence to show he had cancer, as defined  in the policy, prior to joining the 
scheme. But, Legal and General has provided a strong medical opinion from its Chief 
Medical Officer (CMO),  who is an oncologist. This says, based  on what Mr M recalls, he is 
most likely to have suffered from cancer  as defined by the policy.  
Mr M has said he suffered from a testicular seminoma and he has said he had radiotherapy 
following an operation to remove it. Legal  and Generals CMO has confirmed testicular 
seminoma is cancer  and is always invasive. And Mr Ms representative has not provided any 
medical evidence   for example  from the oncologist who treated Mr M following his more 
recent colon cancer   to suggest  otherwise. So, I think  Legal  and General has shown that on 
the balance of probabilities Mr M did suffer from cancer, which met the current  policy 
definition of cancer, prior to joining the scheme  and being covered by the policy  in 2016. 
So, I would support Legal and Generals  right to rely on the exclusion to decline Mr Ms 
claim, provided I felt Legal and General wasnt prevented from doing so having taken 
account of the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards,  
codes of practice and good industry practice.  And provided I thought it would produce a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint. Taking  everything  into account, I dont 
think it would  produce a fair and reasonable outcome in this particular case  and Ive set out 
my reasons  below.
Legal and Generals internal system notes on Mr Ms claim say the following (my emphasis):
Following on from the assessment tab, from my notes  on 13 November we have received 
an email from the member explaining  why he hasnt been registered with a GP for the last 25 
years. He also confirmed  what we have already know  that he suffered from a testicular 
seminoma 20 years ago. The consultants letter to the GP mentions previous  history of  right  
orchiectomy for seminoma of the R testis for which he also had post-operative radiotherapy. 
I have discussed  this with [] and he confirmed  that all seminomas are invasive especially if 
the member received surgery  as well as radiotherapy. He stated that he thinks its too harsh 
to decline the claim  as this was 20 years ago however I explained that as per our policy  
terms and conditions where the insured  person has been diagnosed with any malignant 
tumours, defined  as cancer, we will not pay benefit for any subsequent cancer.  Therefore 
this is not a valid claim and should be declined.
Ref: DRN70607073I think the use of the word  harsh  suggests the member of staff at the reinsurer, who it seems  
is a claims handler, thinks the decision to decline  Mr Ms claim could be seen as unfair. 
Legal and General has suggested the claims  handlers comment  was made before the 
reinsurer had fully reviewed the case and that Ive taken it out of context. But, it seems  the 
basic facts were clear at the point he said it and it was based on a correct interpretation of 
the facts of the case. So I do think its relevant and reasonable  that I take it into account.  
Legal and General has also suggested that the reference to the decision being harsh doesnt 
necessarily mean the member of staff thought the decision was unfair. But I do think the 
word harsh suggests he felt there  was at least some element  of unfairness. 
Legal and Generals notes also suggest that if Mr M had applied for a stand-alone policy  it 
would have applied  a specific exclusion for testicular cancer. And, while I fully appreciate it 
would also have applied  a loading to the premium, I dont think this alters the fact that, even 
the claims handler at the reinsurer still felt the decision to decline the claim was harsh.  
Ive also considered a more recent  piece of evidence  provided by Mr Ms representative.  
This is a recent version of a Legal and General on-line document  entitled  Group  Critical 
Illness Cover  Appendix  to quotation. This looks like its a guide to help businesses 
understand what Legal and General now covers under its group scheme  critical illness 
policies.
This has guidance on the fact that a member of the scheme can claim for cancer even 
though theyve had cancer previously, provided  its unrelated. It has the following summary  
under a section  headed  Cancer second and subsequent  new and unrelated cancer:
A diagnosis  that meets  the definition under cancer, for a member  who has previously met 
this insured condition,  but which is not excluded by the pre-existing conditions  exclusion due 
to the following statements  being  true: 
i.The member  has been treatment free for a period  of five years from the date of the 
most recent previous diagnosis of cancer,  and 
ii.There is no evidence,  confirmed by appropriate  up-to-date investigations and tests,  
of any continuing  presence, reoccurrence  or spread of previous cancer, and
iii.The new cancer:
affects an organ that is physically and anatomically separate  to any previous 
cancer, and
 is not a secondary  cancer or histologically related to any previous cancer;  or
for haematological  cancer, the new cancer is categorised  or divided according to 
defined cell characteristics in a distinctly different  manner to any previous cancer.  
Treatment includes immunotherapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, monoclonal 
antibody therapy  and invasive or non-invasive surgery,  but does not include long-
term maintenance hormone treatment.
 
This suggests Legal and General has changed the terms of its group scheme policies to 
cover unrelated cancer. Ive put this to Legal  and General and its not challenged me on this 
point. Although it has said the change would be reflected in higher premiums.  
Im not in any way suggesting the current group scheme terms and conditions should be 
used to assess Mr Ms claim. But I do think this revised guidance, coupled with the 
Ref: DRN70607074comments from the reinsurers claims handler, supports my view that the decision to decline 
Mr Ms claim  could  be considered unfair. I do of course accept that premiums  for a group 
scheme with the new wording would most  likely be higher, although Legal and General has 
not quantified how much  higher that might be. But I still think the change in approach  for 
newer group schemes shows, to some  extent at least, Legal and General thinks  the 
approach it now applies  in these cases is a fair and reasonable  way to apply the exclusion 
for previous cancers.
Ive also noted  Legal and Generals comment that making it pay this claim, even though its 
technically not covered  by the policy, would be contrary  to the general principle of treating 
customers fairly. But I dont agree. I have to decide  whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this particular case,  which is what I have done. 
Legal and General has also suggested that my decision  would set a precedent. But our 
ombudsmans decisions dont set precedents.  We decide each  case  on its own individual  
merits and  if I uphold  a complaint  it is only legally binding on the parties  involved,  
assuming the complainant accepts it. 
Legal and General has also mentioned weve dealt with similar  cases  in the past and 
supported it relying  on the abovementioned exclusion. But I can only decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
This all means I dont think in this particular case it would produce  a fair and reasonable 
outcome if Legal  and General relied on the abovementioned  exclusion to reject Mr Ms claim.  
This is because the comments of its reinsurers claims handler, the change to its guidance  
for group schemes and the fact that Legal and General has also said that if the risk Mr M 
presented had been individually underwritten, only testicular cancer would  have been  
excluded. 
Ive also decided to make Legal  and General add interest to any amount it pays in settlement 
of Mr Ms claim. This is because he has been deprived of these funds as a result of its 
decision to decline it. 
As Ive decided that its not fair and reasonable for Legal and General to apply this exclusion, 
in Mr Ms case, Ive decided not to address all Mr Ms representatives other points  on it, 
including his point  about Legal and Generals approach being discriminatory. 
Ref: DRN70607075my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order  Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  to deal with his claim without  relying  on the abovementioned  
exclusion and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the policy.   
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must add interest to any payment it makes to 
Mr M on the claim  at a rate of eight  percent  simple from the date he submitted his claim to 
the date of actual  payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
1 If Legal and General considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr M how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Mr M a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7060707