K820x#14complaint
Miss J is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs decision to close  her account  and register her 
details with fraud prevention agencies.
background
Miss J received two credits of £2,500 into her account on 11 and 17 December 2018. The 
money left the account over the space of a few days following each credit.  There were other 
payments into the account around the same time, the proceeds of which were also 
transferred out or spent.
On 24 December 2018 Santander received contact from another bank about the funds paid 
into Miss Js account. Santander  was informed the sender  of the money  had been the victim 
of a scam.  Santander  blocked Miss Js account and wrote to her asking she get in touch.
Miss J contacted the bank on 27 December 2018  as she was unable to use her account. 
She was told why that was but she couldnt  discuss the matter in detail  as she was abroad.  
She picked  things up with the bank when she got back  to the UK in January 2019  and 
explained she had been innocently caught up in a scam and was a victim herself.
Santander told Miss J itd need  to see some form of proof of entitlement  to the money in her 
account.
Miss J provided a number  of invoices relating to the credits to her account. The evidence 
satisfied Santander  of the legitimacy of some  of the transfers in and out. But it wasnt  
satisfied Miss J had provided sufficient  evidence of entitlement to the two transfers of £2,500 
which had been  reported as fraud by the sending banks customer.
Miss J had provided an invoice for each of the payments. She explained the invoices were 
from a merchant in Nigeria  that sent money  to UK bank accounts. The merchant would take 
payment in Nigerian  Naira  and send them to the UK in British Pounds.  The two invoices 
showed a conversion rate along  with the amount of Naira  to be paid to the merchant and the 
corresponding amount to be received in British  Pounds.
Miss J said she would help people send money  in this way as she had good access to such 
merchants engaged in money transfers. She also said shed  sometimes receive money  from 
people like this in order to buy them  goods  online and then send them abroad.  The 
arrangement would be for her friends to pay money into her bank account in Nigeria and 
shed arrange  for funds  to be sent on to the UK from there.  Shed then buy the goods and 
dispatch them overseas.
Miss J explained she found  the money transfer  merchant involved on this case online.
Santander considered the evidence supplied by Miss J but did not consider it enough to 
prove Miss J was legitimately expecting  the money  into her account.  It then proceeded to 
close her accounts and register her details  with fraud prevention  agencies.  Dissatisfied with 
the banks actions, Miss J brought the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened and asked Miss J for some further 
evidence. He asked  for copies  of Miss Js bank statements for the account in Nigeria Miss J 
said her friends paid money into. He also asked  Miss J to provide evidence of 
Ref: DRN74909772communication with her friends and the merchant that would confirm the setting up and 
carrying out of the payments. 
Miss J hasnt  provided us with any of her bank statements for the account held in Nigeria. 
Shes said she hasnt  been able to order them by phone and she hasnt been  able to set up 
online banking. 
Miss J did provide some text messages. Some of those are from someone that appears to 
offer the money transfer service Miss J has described. Others  are from friends that have 
wanted to transfer  money through Miss J. Shes also provided evidence of ordering goods 
for people  before sending them on.
Our investigator considered the new evidence  along with everything  the bank and Miss J 
had provided already.  He didnt find the bank had acted unfairly in closing the account or 
registering Miss Js details  with fraud  prevention agencies. He didnt feel there  was evidence 
to suggest Miss J had been innocently caught  up in a scam. 
Miss J was unhappy with the response. She asked for more  time to obtain evidence  and felt 
it was unfair  she was being asked for more  information months after the event.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
I dont intend to comment on any of the transactions the bank has accepted  as being 
genuine payments.  Theres  no longer any dispute over whats  happened with them. Ill only 
be commenting on the two payments in of £2,500  each. I will also refer to some of the 
payments out of the account following receipt of that money.
Miss J has been able to supply little information  to prove her entitlement  to the £5,000 paid 
into her account. Certainly less than Id expect her to be able to given her explanation of 
where the funds  were  supposed to come  from. 
She has provided two invoices from the merchant she says she used to send the money.  But 
the invoices contain very little detail aside from some  conversion rates  and the amounts 
involved. Theres no office address or any contact  information or other detail about the 
merchant. And they dont  confirm where  funds  are being sent from or to.
A search  for the merchant  online doesnt reveal  anything. I cant find any mention of the 
company at all, which seems strange  given Miss J said she found  them  online.
Weve asked Miss J for her account statements to help evidence  what she says happened.  
They would clearly  show money being  credited to her account from her friends  before she 
sent it on to the merchant.  
Miss J hasnt  been able to provide  the account  statements. I appreciate Miss J has said 
shes had difficulty obtaining  statements  from her bank in Nigeria. But its now been almost  
three months since we first requested them and nothing  has been forthcoming.  And it seems  
possible to sign-up to Miss Js banks online service without going to a branch. So Im unsure 
why she hasnt done that. Without this evidence or any further information there isnt a 
Ref: DRN74909773convincing explanation as to where the funds  came from or proof of Miss Js actions in 
sending them on.
Miss J has also been unable to provide any evidence of contact with the merchant or friends 
either before or after the money was sent to her account. For contact with the merchant it 
seems reasonable  to expect there  would be some form of correspondence  for the setting  up 
of the transfers.  And it also seems reasonable to suggest Miss J might have tried to contact 
them again  on learning of the fraudulent  nature of the credits  to her account.  It could only be 
the merchant  that went on to carry out any fraud if what Miss J has said is true. But shes  
provided no such evidence.
In terms of contact with her friends, it seems as though Miss J should have some  evidence 
of them  agreeing to a money transfer  or goods purchase in the first place and then 
subsequent evidence of one of those actions actually taking place. But again, weve not 
been provided with anything  to support that version of events.
I appreciate Miss J has provided some evidence of more  recent  contact, both in terms of 
merchants offering money transfer  services  and the arrangement of money or goods being  
sent for friends. But theres nothing confirming  the events this case  is concerned  with.
Ive also considered the payments out of Miss Js account following  the receipt of the £2,500 
on each occasion.  They dont really seem to fit with Miss Js reasons for receiving  the 
money.
After the first amount of £2,500 is paid theres  really only one transfer of £1,000 that might 
be intended for someone that had asked  her to send money.  There  are other transfers out of 
the account but none of them match up to the incoming £2,500; theyre  too high in value. 
There is one other  transfers to one of Miss Js other accounts but shes  explained its 
unrelated. The evidence doesnt suggest Miss J was sending  the money on to other people 
in the way shes described.
There is card spending  as well and this might make up for some of the money Miss J says 
she expected  to receive. It might be the buying and selling on of goods Miss J has said she 
engages in. Spending  with clothes retailers comes to around £1,200.  I can see here how 
there might be some explanation for why Miss J used her bank card to spend the money 
shed received.
But once the second payment of £2,500 comes in the explanation becomes less likely. I say 
that because theres  little money sent on to other people  or spent elsewhere. The majority  of 
the funds - £2,200  appear  to be paid to a university. The rest is used  up with cash machine 
withdrawals and what looks to be day to day spending. That doesnt  fit with Miss Js 
explanation of what the money was intended  for.
Im also left to question what an unknown fraudsters motivation would be for having  money  
paid into Miss Js account. Its clear from the contact from the bank that sent the two lots of 
£2,500 that its customer had been the victim  of a scam;  shed been  tricked into sending  the 
money to Miss Js account. So if a fraudster had managed  to establish such  a scam, I cant 
see why they would then arrange  for the money  sent to Miss J if they then had no prospect 
of being able to recover it. The only way theyd  be able to access the money  would be if 
Miss J sent it on to them or somehow gave access to her account,  willingly or otherwise. 
Miss J hasnt  said any of these things happened.
Ref: DRN74909774With all of the above in mind  Im unable to say Miss J has been  the unfortunate victim of a 
scam. The evidence  points to it being  more likely than not  on balance  that Miss J had 
some awareness of what was happening  with the incoming funds. I cant  then say the banks 
actions  in closing Miss Js accounts  and registering her details with fraud prevention  
agencies  have  been unfair.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Ben Murray  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7490977