K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC acted  unfairly and unreasonably by not giving 
them a lifetime mortgage. They want a lifetime mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage  with Lloyds but its term had ended. Mr and Mrs W wanted to 
know what mortgage products would be available  from Lloyds. They said that they were told 
about three options, including  a lifetime mortgage.  But when they wanted to take out a 
lifetime mortgage, Mr and Mrs W said that Lloyds didnt offer such mortgages.  They  felt that 
theyd been mis-led and wanted the mortgage  they believed  had been offered.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds. It said it hadnt  offered  Mr and Mrs W a lifetime 
mortgage. Lloyds  said that its staff had explained  that Mr and Mrs W were currently  on the 
standard variable  rate (SVR) and two fixed rate products were available.  But it said when 
its staff had said the SVR had no end date, it didnt mean that it was offering a lifetime 
mortgage and any mortgage set up by it would have an end date.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that Mr and Mrs W were  told 
their current  mortgage was on the SVR and that they could stay on it, or take out a two or 
four year fixed interest  rate product. She said that it seemed that Mr and Mrs W had 
assumed that the mortgage could  run until their death or be turned into a lifetime mortgage 
when the member of staff said that the SVR had no end date, but this didnt mean that the 
mortgage wouldnt have  an end date. The adjudicator explained  that it wasnt possible to 
turn a normal mortgage into a lifetime mortgage as they were  completely different things; 
she also explained that lifetime mortgages were specialist and required expert advice. The 
adjudicator said that Lloyds  didnt  offer lifetime mortgages and we wouldnt force it to do so.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They were  adamant that they were offered  a lifetime mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that unless a formal mortgage offer is made, a lender hasnt offered a 
consumer any mortgage product  it is simply outlining  options.  Mr and Mrs W werent  given 
a formal offer of a lifetime  mortgage by Lloyds according to their own account.
Having looked  at all the evidence available to me, including  listening to a recording of the 
call, its clear that a misunderstanding has occurred. Lloyds  didnt offer a lifetime  mortgage. 
The various interest rates that could be applied for were  discussed, including the SVR. But 
at no point was a lifetime  mortgage suggested or discussed. The member of staff did say 
that the SVR had no end date, unlike a fixed interest  rate, but this isnt the same  as an offer 
of a lifetime mortgage.  It mightve been  helpful  to have explained that the length of the 
mortgage term would need to be agreed, but it wasnt unfair or unreasonable  to have not 
done so given the circumstances.
Ref: DRN76267152Even if Mr and Mrs W stayed on the SVR, as the mortgage had ended, a new one would 
need to be agreed, including an end date. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W have confused 
the length of a product  with the length of a mortgage; just because theres no end date to the 
product or interest rate, this doesnt mean  that the mortgage can last a lifetime.
And the adjudicator is correct in saying  that as Lloyds doesnt offer lifetime  mortgages, we 
wouldnt make  it offer such a product to Mr and Mrs W. Lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement about the products they offer,  if any.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before17 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7626715