K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Ms L complain about poor service from HSBC UK Bank plc in connection with 
closing two trust accounts.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 December 2019.  A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A and forms part of this final decision.
Mr H and Ms L responded to say that they agreed with my provisional  findings.
HSBC said it was willing to pay £250 in recognition that its service couldve been better 
when Mr H was trying to update his address. 
But HSBC  said it wasnt willing to pay the lost interest Id recommended.  It didnt consider it was 
responsible for chasing up Ms L when  it didnt receive her expected  identification documents. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything HSBC has said in response to my provisional  decision.
But Im still mindful that the information the bank needed was in connection with Mr H and 
Ms Ls specific  instructions to close the accounts.  So I still think it wouldve been reasonable 
for the bank to contact them to explain what was needed for the accounts to be closed.
Overall, Im not persuaded to depart  from the position set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct HSBC UK Bank plc to:
-pay Mr H and Ms L an amount representing the difference (if any) between  the interest 
that wouldve been earned on the account  balances  if theyd been transferred to third 
party bank accounts in line with Mr H and Ms Ls instructions in June 2016, and the 
actual interest that was earned  while the accounts remained  open  with HSBC.  
Loss of interest should be calculated for the period  that is six months from 10 June 2016. 
This amount is to be paid within 28 days of Mr H and Ms Ls acceptance  of my decision 
being received  by HSBC UK Bank plc failing which interest  will start to accrue at the 
simple rate of 8% per year until settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
-pay £250 in total to Mr H and Ms L for the inconvenience  this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71348532APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr H and Ms L complain about poor service from HSBC  UK Bank plc in connection with closing two 
trust accounts.
background
Mr H and Ms L were trustees of a family trust. The trust ended in 2015,  and in 2016 Mr H and Ms L 
sent instructions  to HSBC  to close the trust accounts and transfer the balances  to the trusts 
beneficiaries. But HSBC  couldnt  verify Ms Ls signature, so the accounts remained open.
Mr H and Ms L moved overseas and there was no activity on the accounts  for over a year. In 2017 
HSBC told Mr H and Ms L that the accounts would be closed and the balances transferred to the 
banks unclaimed balances account.
Mr H returned to the UK in 2018 and tried to reclaim  the balances from the unclaimed  balances 
account. But HSBC couldnt  release the money without verifying Ms Ls signature  which  was difficult 
because she remained  overseas.
Mr H suggested alternative means of verifying Ms Ls signature to HSBC,  but struggled to get any 
meaningful response.  He complained, and eventually  referred the matter to this service.
Following the involvement  of this service, HSBC agreed alternative means of verifying Ms Ls 
signature and released  the account balances to the trust beneficiaries. 
But HSBC said it had followed correct  procedures  when it received Mr H and Ms Ls initial instructions 
to close  the accounts, and in releasing  the funds from the unclaimed  balances account. So it wasnt 
willing to pay any compensation for loss of interest or the inconvenience caused.
Mr H and Ms L remained  unhappy, and said HSBC had caused considerable distress when  it failed to 
correspond meaningfully with Mr H in 2018. They asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I think is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr H and Ms L are no longer trustees of the family trust, and 
that they make their complaint as individuals rather than trustees.
I also accept that in the particular circumstances of this case, HSBC has gone beyond  its usual 
verification procedures  to release the monies from its unclaimed balances account to the trust 
beneficiaries. 
But I have considered what happened in 2016,  when Mr H and Ms L asked for the accounts  to be 
closed. The letter from Mr H was addressed to the branch where  the accounts were held and said:
[Ms L] is in [city name] and has the deed terminating the trust whereas I live in [town name] and am 
not able to come to [city name]. She will come with herpassport  as ID.
HSBC has said it couldnt  close the accounts because Ms Ls signature on the letter  didnt match the 
account mandate. But it seems HSBC waited  for Ms L to attend with her passport at the branch  that 
Mr H had written  to. 
Ref: DRN71348533Ms L has said throughout the complaint that she went to a different branch   and the branch  shes 
mentioned is in the city named in Mr Hs letter. There isnt any evidence to show that Ms L went to the 
city branch in question, and I cant safely say that she did.
But whether or not Ms L attended the city branch,  Im mindful that she and Mr H had given HSBC  
instructions to close the accounts. I accept there  was a specific reason why HSBC  couldnt  do that. 
But in the circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC to contact Mr H and Ms L to 
explain what  was needed  for the accounts to be closed.
I cant  see that HSBC tried to contact Mr H and Ms L once it received their letter. It simply waited to 
see whether  Ms L attended at the branch.
If HSBC had explained  to Mr H and Ms L what it needed to close the accounts, Im satisfied they 
wouldve been  properly  closed  in 2016. 
Im mindful that the overall amount of the account balances was relatively large.  So in the 
circumstances, I think it might have been reasonable for Mr H and Ms L to check that HSBC had 
closed the accounts  in line with their instructions.
With all of these points  in mind, I think its reasonable for HSBC to cover  any loss of interest on the 
accounts for six months from the time they shouldve  been properly  closed in 2016.  
Mr H first contacted HSBC  about reclaiming the dormant  account monies in June 2018. HSBC told 
him in September 2018  that a letter addressing  the issues hed raised  had been sent. By October Mr 
H still hadnt  received anything because HSBC continued to write to him at his old address  even 
though Mr H had repeatedly  told the bank he had a new address.
HSBC has said it couldnt  accept the new details by email.  But I cant  see that it told Mr H that. Again, 
I think  it wouldve  been  reasonable for HSBC  to explain to Mr H what he needed to do to update his 
address details.
As it was, HSBC continued to write to Mr H at his old address. So I can fully understand Mr Hs 
frustration when he appeared to make no progress in finding out what could be done to release the 
trust account monies. For that reason,  I think its fair and reasonable  for HSBC to pay compensation 
for the trouble  and upset caused.
Overall, I intend to uphold Mr H and Ms Ls complaint in part.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I intend to direct HSBC  UK Bank plc to:
-pay Mr H and Ms L an amount representing the difference  (if any) between the interest that 
wouldve been earned on the account balances if theyd  been transferred to third party  bank 
accounts in line with Mr H and Ms Ls instructions in June 2016, and the actual interest that was 
earned while the accounts remained open with HSBC. 
Loss of interest should be calculated  for the period  that is six months from 10 June  2016. 
This amount  is to be paid within  28 days  of Mr H and Ms Ls acceptance of my decision being 
received by HSBC  UK Bank plc failing  which  interest will start to accrue  at the simple rate of 8% 
per year until settlement (less  any tax properly deductible).
-pay £250 in total to Mr H and Ms L for the inconvenience this matter has caused.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7134853