K820x#14complaint
Mr Y is unhappy TSB Bank plc has refused to refund the money  he lost after falling victim  to 
a scam.
background
On 30 August 2018 Mr Y asked the bank to transfer  £2,790 to a third party to pay for a car 
hed seen for sale on a social media  site. He expected the car to be delivered the next day, 
but realised hed fallen victim  to a scam when it didnt arrive and the third party ignored his 
subsequent contact attempts.
Mr Y reported the matter  to TSB on 1 September 2019 and it was able to reclaim £10 of the 
payment from the receiving bank  the remainder had already  been  withdrawn. TSB refused 
to refund the rest of the money. Mr Y was unhappy, so asked us to look into his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I didnt  think Mr Ys complaint 
should be upheld.  I said, in summary,  that:
All parties accepted it was Mr Y who went into branch, deposited some cash  and then 
told the bank to make the transfer  to, what turned out to be, a fraudster. And, in broad 
terms, the starting position  in law is that a bank  is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their account.  So TSB had an obligation to follow  Mr Ys instructions. But I 
also thought, taking into account the law, regulators rules  and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, TSB 
should have been  on the lookout for unusual and out of character  transactions.
I looked at the way Mr Y used his account in the months leading up to the scam. And I 
noted he occasionally paid in, and sometimes withdrew or transferred, larger  amounts in 
relatively short succession. And sometimes  those  larger  payments were  sent to accounts 
which werent identifiable as his own. In the circumstances, I wasnt persuaded the 
activity on the day in question was particularly  unusual  or suspicious compared to how 
Mr Y used  the account before such that TSB should  have been  alerted to the possibility 
he might  have been at risk of financial harm and so questioned him further.
I would  have expected TSB to have contacted the receiving bank promptly after Mr Y 
reported the scam to try and recover  his money. It wasnt  clear  when exactly  the bank 
did this but its notes indicated it received a reply  on 3 September,  advising that only £10 
remained in the account. I noted  that, in my experience, fraudsters will often withdraw  
money soon after its transferred  into the recipients  account.  But I said TSB needed to 
show me that it did make  prompt  attempts  to contact the receiving bank  and that the 
money had already  been withdrawn at that point. 
In response to my provisional decision,  TSB noted  my concern about the lack of evidence  
showing when it contacted the receiving  bank, but couldnt provide any additional,  supporting 
evidence. So our investigator contacting the receiving bank which  confirmed that all but £10 
of the money  was transferred out of the recipients account the same day Mr Y sent it.
Mr Y didnt add anything in response  to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN75994472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im now satisfied the majority of the money Mr Y sent to the fraudster  had already been  
moved out of the recipients account  by the time Mr Y reported the matter to TSB.  So TSB 
couldnt have  recovered more than £10.
As neither party has sent any further  evidence  or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised 
above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2021.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7599447