K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG have not met a legal expenses  claim 
made under her travel  insurance  policy when she was told her claim would be met.
For simplicity I will just refer to Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  but this does include 
its agents.
background
Miss T was the victim of a very serious crime when she was abroad in September 2018. On 
her return  she submitted a claim. URV settled her claim  for medical  and other expenses.  
However it didnt settle her claim for legal  expenses.  It said that the policy didnt extend to 
the pursuit of legal proceedings.
Miss T wasnt  happy with URVs response, particularly as she felt that it had told her by 
telephone on 11 December 2018  that she had been awarded £3000, which  would be in her 
account in 3-5 working days. She feels that as her policy states  that it covers legal fees up to 
£10,000 she should receive  this amount.
Our investigator didnt  find that Miss Ts claim was covered by the policy  but recommended 
that URV  pay Miss T £150  in compensation for its handling of the phone call on 11 
December 2018.  URV  accepted this but Miss T didnt.  In summary she felt that URV were 
not helping her get justice,  and that she was out of pocket more  than £3000  because of the 
advice she was given  in the call of 11 December.  She was also unhappy with comments 
made in correspondence from URV. The investigator didnt change  her view so the case  has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ts policy offers cover of up to £10,000 for legal costs and incurred in pursuing claims 
for compensation and damages  due to death or personal injury  whilst on holiday. 
Miss T wasnt  pursuing a claim  for compensation. She wanted to seek  justice,  assist  in the 
criminal investigation and see the perpetrators of the horrendous  crime against  her 
prosecuted. Its completely understandable that she wanted to do this. But unfortunately, its 
not covered by the limited  legal  expenses cover provided by the policy.  I note that URV  
liaised with the lawyers whom Miss T had taken advice from under the policy. I think  that 
was fair and Im satisfied  that they recognised the gravity of the situation  for Miss T and 
didnt dismiss  the claim out of hand. But as her legal expenses claim wasnt covered, I dont 
find that URV should have met this part of her claim. 
Nevertheless Miss T says that she was told she would be receiving £3000  in a phone  call on 
11 December. Ive listened to that call. Miss T called to enquire  what was happening as she 
hadnt received  a payment. The adviser told her that she could see that it was waiting for 
payment transfer.  She said it would take 3-5 days.  There was no mention of £3000,  but I 
accept that this is what Miss T thought the adviser was referring  to. In fact she was referring 
to a payment  to Miss T for a different sum. This was for the medical expenses claim. 
Ref: DRN78120732Although no figures  were  mentioned,  there  was clearly a misunderstanding. But Miss T had 
given a reference number and I think it would  have been prudent  for the adviser to check 
that this related to the same claim that payment was about the be made for. I recognise that 
it would  have been extremely disappointing for Miss T when she later understood that URV 
werent meeting  this part of her claim. I cant say that URV did tell her she was to be 
awarded £3000 or that her claim for legal expenses was successful. But I think  it was 
incumbent on the adviser to ensure that the information she was giving was correct. It 
follows that I think compensation  is due for the disappointment that Miss T suffered when 
she received a letter two weeks later confirming that this claim was not covered. Im satisfied 
that £150 is a fair sum in the circumstances.  
Miss T has said that she is out of pocket more  than £3000  because of the advisers 
wrongdoings. However Im not persuaded  that on the back of the call on 11 December she 
incurred expense that she wouldnt have incurred anyway. In her complaint here she said 
that she would appreciate  if she was paid £3000 to cover legal fees to remove the burden of 
what happened and help get justice for what happened. I completely understand why she 
wanted to do that but, despite asking, I havent seen any evidence  to show that she only 
initiated contact  with the lawyer following the phone call on 11 December. It seems from the 
evidence before me that Miss T, understandably, was always  going  to pursue the matter.
 
Miss T was also upset by an email  she received from URV where it referred to a lack of 
supporting evidence to confirm the circumstances. She felt this was accusing her of lying. I 
see why, in isolation, Miss T would have been upset by this comment. But reading the letter 
as a whole  its clear that the adviser accepted  Miss Ts account  and said how sorry she was 
to hear of the circumstances that led to her complaint. When  Miss T raised this issue the 
adviser said that she was truly sorry if she had offended Miss T in any way. I think that was 
appropriate and a satisfactory  resolution to the point Miss T had raised. 
I appreciate that Miss T feels that URV  should  make a payment to her because  of the 
traumatic experience  she has been  through, but thats not the intention of the policy. In all 
the circumstances I cant  say that URV  have dealt  with Miss Ts claim unfairly. I do find 
though that compensation  is due for the misunderstanding that stemmed  from the call on 11 
December 2018.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Union Reiseversicherung AG 
to make a payment  in compensation to Miss T of £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7812073