K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains, through  a claims management  company (CMC),  about a reviewable whole 
of life (WOL) policy  with critical illness  cover  (CIC) that was sold to her by a predecessor firm 
of Phoenix Life Limited. The CMC  raised the following issues on behalf of Mrs P:
It isnt clear why she needed  to take out the policy.
No alternatives were discussed with her.
The reviews under the plan werent  disclosed.
There was no assessment of affordability in retirement.
The adviser didnt  ask how long she wanted  cover for or even if this was a priority.
background
In 1998 Mrs P saw an adviser together with her husband Mr P. Although  he reviewed all 
their financial  needs the fact find I have seen from the time of advice shows they only 
wanted to address life cover and CIC.
The adviser recommended they each take a separate WOL policy which  provided life and 
CIC of £50,000.  Mrs P complained in 2019 after seeing the CMC. Mr P has also complained 
and that is the subject  of a separate complaint.
Phoenix said that the complaint about  the non-disclosure of the reviews  had been  made  too 
late because the policy was reviewed in 2008 and the cover was reduced  from £50,000  to 
£33,850 and that Mrs P shouldve complained no more than three years from then.
With regard to suitability  Phoenix accepted that the WOL policy was unsuitable for Mrs P 
and said that a term assurance  policy  of 25 years, to take Mrs P to 60 years  of age, wouldve 
been more suitable. It said that it had carried out a calculation comparing the premium for 
the WOL policy with the premium for the suggested  term assurance  which  showed a 
difference of £4,112. But as the surrender value of the policy was higher than this it said 
there was no loss.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. She thought the WOL policy was 
unsuitable and noted that the adviser had discussed  cover  over 20 years. She said she 
couldnt see how the adviser had concluded  Mrs P had a shortfall of cover of £100,000 and 
had then arranged  cover of £50,000.  She thought the adviser  shouldve  recommended a 
joint policy over a 20 year term and should  calculate redress accordingly.
Phoenix calculated  redress as set out by the adjudicator and its calculations  again showed 
no loss as the combined surrender value  of Mrs Ps and Mr Ps policies was more  than the 
difference in premium payments  between the WOL life policy  and a joint term assurance 
policy over 20 years.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said it was unclear over what  term Mrs P 
wanted cover and that the fairest option would  be to deduct the actual  costs  of the cover as 
we have concluded in previous cases.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75078832I note that Phoenix  has suggested that part of Mrs Ps complaint has been made too late, 
namely the complaint about not being made aware of the reviews.  The CMC hasnt taken 
issue with this but as it is for our service  to decide if we have jurisdiction to consider a 
complaint I have considered whether the complaint about the reviews  has been  made  too.
The two time limits  that are relevant here require  a complaint to be made no more  than six 
years from the event complained about or, if later, no more than three years from when the 
person complaining was aware, or ought reasonably  to have been aware, they had cause for 
complaint.
The event in this complaint is the sale of the policy in 1998, so the complaint in 2019  has 
been made too late under the six year time limit. The policy  was also reviewed in 2008, 
when the sum assured was significantly reduced. In the circumstances Mrs P ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware she wasnt made aware of the reviews  when she was given  
details of the review  in 2008. So the complaint about  the reviews  has been made too late 
under the three year time limit.
Turning to the rest of Mrs Ps complaint Im satisfied that life cover  with CIC was itself a 
suitable recommendation and the issue I have to decide is over what  term such cover  
shouldve been  provided. Clearly if a WOL policy was suitable then Phoenix has done  
nothing wrong  as Mrs P has got the cover  she needed and wanted.
Phoenix has concluded a WOL policy was unsuitable. I am not bound  to reach the same 
conclusion as Phoenix, but in this case I also think  the WOL policy was unsuitable. Mrs P 
had two dependent children, the youngest of which was not yet two years of age. Because  
the WOL was reviewable, it was going to go through two reviews before her youngest child 
reached 18 years of age, with a real possibility that on review the amount of cover would 
reduce  as happened  on first review in 2008  when the amount of cover  dropped  by 
£16,000.
So I am satisfied that Mrs P shouldve been recommended  a term assurance policy rather 
than a WOL policy. But the question then is what term should she have had. Phoenix  
suggested 25 years, which wouldve taken her to normal  retirement  (at the time). I dont think 
that is an unreasonable suggestion but I think  a shorter term wouldve been suitable in this 
case. 
Term assurance is normally until retirement or, where there  are children, until the youngest 
reaches 18 or 21 years of age. In this case Mrs Ps youngest child wasnt  yet two years  old. 
And I note in the fact find that the adviser  did discuss a policy that provided  a high level of 
life cover for 20 years before the cover dropped significantly, and a 20 year term assurance 
policy. I think, given  that a term of 20 years was contemplated at the time, it isnt 
unreasonable to find that if Mrs P had been given suitable advice she wouldve taken out a 
policy for 20 years to provide cover until the youngest child was 21.
If a term assurance was recommended the question  then arises whether this shouldve  been 
single or joint. I think on balance a joint policy wouldve been  suitable. I think  this wouldve 
allowed Mrs P and Mr P to get the maximum amount  of cover they couldve done for the 
premium they were willing to pay. Given the premium she paid was based  on affordability Im 
not satisfied she and Mr P wouldve limited  the cover to £50,000  when they couldve got 
more cover for the same  premium. 
Ref: DRN75078833I think it is more  likely than not Mrs P wouldve had as much cover as she and Mr P could 
afford so they wouldve  paid the same for the joint policy as they wouldve done for their two 
individual policies.  Given I think Mrs P wouldve paid the same amount for a suitable policy 
as she has done  for the WOL policy it follows she hasnt suffered any loss as a result of what  
Phoenix did wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7507883