K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with a home emergency  policy he took out with Aviva  Insurance  Limited. All 
references to Aviva  include its agents.
background
Mr S had a policy, underwritten by Aviva, that he believed  would  cover  any problems with 
plumbing and drainage  at his home. In August 2018, he noticed  a smell in his home  and 
contacted Aviva. They arranged for an engineer attended Mr S home in August 2018 to 
carry out an assessment  of the works that needed to be completed. 
Aviva acknowledges there was then a misunderstanding with its claims department  who 
said that the drains needed to be relined. These works would cost more than allowed for 
under Mr S policy, leaving him with just over £700 to pay if this course of action had been 
taken. 
Shortly after this, Aviva realised one of its contractors could complete the work  without 
needing to reline the drains.  An appointment was arranged  for 4 September, but the 
contractor missed this, and the works  were  carried  out later in September  2018.
Mr S didnt think the works had been  carried out correctly. In particular, he was concerned 
that there  was still a smell in his home. Aviva agreed to send  another  member of staff out to 
consider Mr S concerns. However,  they were unable to identify  any smell, and considered 
the works  had been carried out in line with the terms of the policy  which required them  to 
carry out a temporary  reinstatement. Aviva said it was for Mr S to carry out permanent 
repairs, and any temporary  repairs might not be watertight. Mr S wasnt  happy with this and 
made a formal complaint. 
In responding  to Mr S complaint, Aviva said it hadnt  handled  his complaint as well as it 
should have. It offered  £150 compensation in recognition  of the incorrect  information Mr S 
had been given, along with the inconvenience hed experienced following the missed  
appointments. 
Mr S didnt think this was enough  to put things  right.  He said Aviva  should  carry out the 
repairs that were originally agreed  and put right any works that havent been  completed to an 
appropriate standard to make his home safe.  Mr S asked us to look into his complaint. One 
of our investigators did so, and said he thought  the works Aviva  had carried out were in line 
with what was expected of it under  the policy. As Mr S didnt  agree,  this matter has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart  of this issue is whether I am satisfied Aviva has carried  out the works it is 
required to under terms of the policy. And, having considered what  both sides have  said, Im 
satisfied Aviva has done so.
The policy coverage  section of the policy states:
Ref: DRN76561542Temporary reinstatement:  the re-filling of any necessary excavation to leave the 
ground level safe. This does not include like-for-like  reinstatement of decorative 
elements such as hard or soft landscaping,  drives,  pathways, walls, flower beds or 
lawns
What is Covered?
Plumbing and Drainage: You are covered for incidents relating to your plumbing 
and drainage This will include the temporary reinstatement of any excavations  
carried out as part of the claim
Mr S says that the works  havent been  carried out to an adequate  standard.  Aviva disagrees.  
It recognises the confusion caused  by the initial  suggestion the drains  needed to be relined. 
However, I dont think Mr S has demonstrated the works carried out by Aviva are not of the 
standard expected under  the policy. In particular,  I note the report Mr S has relied on 
appears to be dated before the works  were  carried out by Aviva.
In the absence of any information  to support Mr S view the works have not been carried  out 
an adequate standard,  I think Aviva has handled the claim in line with the policy  terms. I 
dont think it needs  to do any more to put things right in respect of this part of Mr S 
complaint. 
Its clear there have been some service failings  on Avivas  part. Mr S was given incorrect 
information about the process the repairs would follow. Mr S was initially told the drains  
would need to be relined,  at a cost to him as these would be above  the policy limit. Aviva 
later decided on an alternative course  of works, within the policy  limit, as its entitled to do. 
That being  said,  I can see theres been  some  worry, upset  and inconvenience  experiences  
by Mr S. However, I think  the £150  offered in the final response letter is an appropriate 
amount to reflect this. Im not going to recommend Aviva increase this offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  Mr S complaint against Aviva Insurance  Limited  and it should  
pay him the £150 offered  in the final response  letter, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020..
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656154