K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax  changed his address details on 
its records and added  an incorrect contact.
background
Mr H says that he noticed Halifax had changed  his address on its records  and had added a 
new contact. He says this caused him shock and upset him.
Halifax accepts making a mistake and has apologised. It says it didnt send any 
correspondence to the incorrect address and has paid Mr H £150 compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought  the compensation offer was 
fair and reasonable. The investigator thought Halifax had corrected the mistake  as soon as 
Mr H told it about the mistake and that Mr H hadnt suffered any financial loss. The 
investigator also thought the compensation was in line with our awards for this type of 
mistake.
Mr H has asked that an ombudsman review that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons.
Ive no doubt Mr H was extremely  concerned  to find out that his account details had been 
changed and Im sure he was concerned  about  the security of his account.  I also accept that 
Mr H then spent some time contacting Halifax about  what had happened and no doubt  faced 
an anxious wait before being told his account  hadnt been compromised.
Im satisfied that Halifax has apologised for what happened and investigated matters as 
soon as Mr H told it about the mistake. So the key question is whether the compensation of 
£150 is fair and reasonable.
I find that the £150 compensation paid to be fair and reasonable and in line with the amount 
we would have  awarded if Halifax hadnt paid compensation. Ive reached  that conclusion  as 
I think Halifax sorted matters out as soon as Mr H told it about the problem.  And that Mr H 
didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of the mistake. Im also satisfied that Halifax 
checked if any correspondence had been sent to the wrong address which  it hadnt.
The investigator has explained that we are not the regulator of banks or building  societies 
and so its not our role to punish  or fine a business  for these sorts of mistakes. And overall 
Im satisfied the compensation is fair and reasonable. But I accept that Mr H would have 
been concerned  and I understand  why he wanted to check  if the level of compensation was 
appropriate and fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70779992Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077999