K820x#14complaint
Mr N acquired  a new car in July 2017, by hire purchase with Black  Horse Limited, trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services (LRFS). He says the car was not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply,  and the supplying dealership  agreed to replace it. He complains that the 
dealer charged  him nearly £8,400  for the replacement car. He wants  to recover this charge.
background
We have received documentary evidence relating to this complaint from Mr N, LRFS  and the 
supplying dealership. I have summarised  below the events to which  the evidence relates.
Mr N said that he complained to the dealer about  one fault a few days after taking delivery  of 
his car in July 2017. We have not received  evidence  relating to this event.  But there is 
evidence that Mr N complained just over a month after delivery,  and then made further 
complaints.
We have received copies  of the dealers job sheets  for warranty  work in October and 
November 2017,  which show faults and repairs. But Mr N complained  that his car had not 
been properly  repaired and was still not of satisfactory quality after this work had been 
completed. 
The dealer  offered to undertake further  investigations. Mr N was willing to agree to one more  
investigation and repair  on condition that the dealer agreed to the car being rejected if it 
continued to have faults afterwards. The dealer  was unwilling to accept this condition,  and so 
no further investigations were undertaken. 
In mid-January 2018, the dealer and the car manufacturer offered Mr N an Assisted  Vehicle  
Change (AVC). 
Also in mid-January 2018, Mr N complained to LRFS about six faults, and said that he 
wanted it to accept rejection of his car. LRFS responded by letter in mid-March 2018,  saying:
It understood that three of these faults  had already been  reported to the dealer, and 
had been repaired.  It upheld this part of the complaint, and offered Mr N 
compensation of £250 for distress, inconvenience  and loss of enjoyment.
It also understood that two of these faults  had not been reported  to, or investigated 
by, the dealer. It was unable to uphold  this part of the complaint, because it had not 
received any evidence relating to these faults.
The sixth fault related  to an item fitted  as an addition to the car, but not included in 
the goods acquired by hire purchase. And, for that reason, it was unable  to uphold  
this part of the complaint.
LRFSs letter  also made reference to discussions Mr N was having with the dealer about  
replacing the car. But LRFS noted  that it had not been involved in these discussions itself.
Mr N and the dealer  continued to discuss replacement of his car. The dealer told Mr N that 
the replacement  charge  was based on the following:
No charge to be made for optional extras on the replacement car  if they had been 
fitted to, and already included in the cost of, the original car 
Charges to be made for betterment (from the original  to the replacement car)
Charges also to be made for mileage  travelled  by the original car
Ref: DRN72831132Mr N also referred  his complaint to us. He later told us that the dealer charged him nearly  
£8,400, excluding extras of his choice.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He said:
He had seen  evidence suggesting  that repairs to some faults had been completed
From  LRFSs  perspective,  other  suspected faults  had not been  investigated  and the 
car was not at a point where  it should be rejected  and he did not feel this was an 
unreasonable stance for it to take 
Based  on the available information, he was unable to conclude that the car was 
currently faulty  also,  in order to recommend upholding a complaint, he would need  
to be satisfied that identified faults  had been present or developing at the point-of-
supply
LRFSs compensation  offer was fair, in his view
LRFS had not been involved  in discussions about replacing the car  and so he could 
not conclude that it was responsible  for any problems or costs associated with this 
transaction
Mr N might still be able to reject the car, and thereby to end his hire purchase 
agreement  but he would need to show that the car had point-of-supply  faults 
Mr N disagreed with our investigator, saying:
There is no dispute about the two faults  for which LRFS said there was a lack of 
evidence  they were  not taken further because the dealer offered  to replace the car
LRFS is liable for the dealers actions, and for the quality of goods he was provided  
and so he wants LRFS  to accept rejection of his car
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
After some delays, the (new) replacement car was ordered, and the original car was 
replaced in September 2018.  The replacement car cost just over £63,500.
LRFS told us:
No new issues were  raised with it, since it responded to Mr N in mid-March 2018
It made a new hire purchase agreement with Mr N in September 2018
The original HP agreement was settled in October 2018
Mr N told us that the dealer charged  him nearly £8,400, excluding extras of his choice.  In 
order to settle this complaint, he wanted to recover that charge.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
LRFS has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances,  which for 
Ref: DRN72831133cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits  to LRFSs responsibilities. In 
particular, faults  must  be present or developing at the point-of-supply.
This complaint is against LRFS, not the supplying dealership.  It relates to a high value new 
car, the quality of which a reasonable person would not regard as satisfactory if it had point-
of-supply faults.  While LRFS acknowledged  that such faults had existed,  its understanding 
was that theyd been successfully repaired.  
In these circumstances, the onus is on Mr N to show  that his car continued to exhibit 
(unsuccessfully repaired or new) faults.  During  winter  2017/18,  he could have allowed the 
dealer to inspect  his car again and identify them, or he could have paid for an independent  
inspection to do this. 
If such faults had been  identified, and evidence provided to LRFS, the onus would then have 
been on it: either to show the faults were  not present or developing at the point-of-supply; or 
to accept responsibility for them and respond  accordingly. 
But LRFS  said that such evidence had not been provided. And this means Im unable to 
agree with Mr N that theres no dispute  about  the two faults  for which  LRFS said there was a 
lack of evidence.
In the early months  of 2018, Mr N discussed  with the dealer replacement of his car (or AVC,  
to use the dealers terminology). LRFS made clear to Mr N that it was not party  to these 
discussions. 
If Mr N was unhappy with the outcome of those  discussions (including the dealers charge 
for AVC), he could have  declined the dealers  offer, and referred the matter back to LRFS (or 
to us, if LRFS refused  to engage  with him). Replacement might  have then been  considered,  
in the context of the original HP agreement and LRFSs point-of-supply responsibilities.
But the evidence  Ive seen from Mr N and LRFS indicates that he decided  to proceed with 
the AVC. In these  circumstances, I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to expect LRFS 
retrospectively to refund a payment made  by Mr N to the dealer (I acknowledge a court of 
law may take a different view  but we are an informal  alternative to the courts).
When a customer acquires a car by hire purchase with LRFS,  LRFS is responsible for that 
cars quality  at the point-of-supply. If LRFS is shown  evidence  that the point-of-supply quality 
is not satisfactory,  it is then responsible for ensuring  the car is either repaired successfully, 
replaced or rejected. But LRFS is not responsible  for other transactions between the 
customer and the supplying dealership.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7283113