K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably when repossessing his property and then selling it. He wants  compensation.
background
Mr B had a mortgage with Halifax. He got into arrears and the property was repossessed in 
2018 (a court order had been  made  allowing this to happen). The property was then sold.  
Mr B was unhappy about the process  (which he felt was untimely and harsh)  and the sale 
price obtained; he said in particular that the property was sold for too little and had been 
undervalued. Mr B also said Halifax shouldnt have shuttered the property while  vacant.
Mr B complained to Halifax  about  the valuations  of his property obtained by it. It said that it 
got two professional valuations, and then used these as a basis to set an initial sale price.  It 
was only if the property didnt sell within a reasonable period  of time that Halifax would then 
look to reduce the price or go to auction.  In Mr Bs case, the valuations of the market  value 
were between £475,000 and £525,000. The offer accepted was for £528,000 (though  the 
final sale price was lower at £514,000); Halifax didnt think  the property had been 
undervalued. It also pointed that it had told Mr B that if he was unhappy  with the valuations  
obtained, he could  get his own while the property was for sale, but Mr B had refused  to do so 
as it wasnt a legal requirement.
Mr B complained to us. The investigators view was that Halifax wasnt  at fault.  He said it 
was fair and reasonable for it to have obtained  more than one valuation from professional 
valuers, and to have  marketed it for about 75 days using different methods. The investigator 
said the sale price was consistent with the valuations and it was reasonable to rely on the 
opinions of professional valuers; he didnt think the choice of comparable properties  was 
unreasonable as the differences were noted  and there wasnt evidence of any obviously 
directly comparable properties in the circumstances. The investigator considered  the 
evidence from Mr B about the valuation and comparable properties, but wasnt  persuaded by 
it. He also didnt think the use of shutters  was unreasonable  or that it affected  the value of 
the property. The investigator said Halifax took reasonable steps when selling the property.
Mr B disagreed. He said the investigator  was biased in favour of Halifax and his evidence  
hadnt been properly considered. The investigator said hed listened  to both parties  and 
wasnt biased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service cant interfere with decisions made by a court.  A court  gave Halifax an order  for 
possession, and also dismissed Mr Bs later application for the warrant  of possession  to be 
suspended. This means that a judge  thought the possession was lawful.  And while  Mr B 
complains that the decision  of Halifax  to get possession was untimely and harsh,  Mr B was 
in significant arrears. He hadnt made  a payment  since 2016  when  the proceedings were  
issued; his offer was to pay less than the contractual monthly payment, which would 
increase his arrears.  And I can see Halifax took account of Mr Bs mental health issues and 
used its specialist team to consider  his case. I dont think the decision to take action was 
untimely, harsh, unfair  or unreasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN70324082Mr B feels  Halifax reduced the value  of the property  by shuttering it up when it was in a low 
crime area. But Halifax didnt immediately shutter  the property. It did so after receiving 
evidence that the property  was being  entered more  than once, and possibly being lived in; 
someone was turning  the utilities back on (more than once) and damage was done  to a lock. 
I place weight on these  reports  as they were  detailed,  from a variety of sources  and made at 
the time.  The property  had been  repossessed, had to remain  vacant, and evidence that 
someone was accessing  the property would put off buyers. Leaving  the utilities on could 
cause damage to the property. I think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in shuttering  the 
property.
Mr B says that the property was sold for too little. But lenders are only required to take 
reasonable steps to get the best price.  Halifax followed the accepted practice  of getting two 
valuations and using  the average to set the initial asking price. It is fair and reasonable to 
rely on the opinions  of professional valuers;  Mr B was given the opportunity to get his own 
valuation and didnt  do so. 
And while Mr B says the property wasnt comparable to other properties, both valuers gave 
details of possible comparable properties and the differences between them and Mr Bs 
property. In such an area, its likely the properties varied significantly. Mr B also sent to this 
service comments  about the comparable properties  from a planning consultant  dated  after 
the property was sold; theres no evidence that this individual  is a professional valuer  
connected to RICS  (the regulator for valuers), but his comments  echo the view that its likely 
to be a challenge to find directly comparable properties. This doesnt mean that Mr Bs 
property was undervalued. 
Mr B provided comments from a surveyor, again  dated after the property was sold;  this isnt 
an expert report as the property wasnt inspected and seems to assume that it wasnt  
necessary to shutter the property.  He also sent details of a property which  he said was 
comparable. But having considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Halifax acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the opinions of expert professional  valuers who had 
inspected the property at the time or considering the chosen comparable  properties and their 
differences to Mr Bs properties when setting  the initial asking price.
Mr B relies  on a valuation from 2014  to show the property was undervalued when sold in 
2018/2019. But over four years has passed since that valuation  and property  prices  can 
change in either direction and the condition of the property  at the time. I think  Halifax acted 
fairly and reasonably in relying on the more up-to-date valuations from professional valuers, 
and accepting an offer which exceeded  the highest  valuation (even the actual  sale price was 
close to the highest valuation). I would also note that a property is ultimately only worth what  
someone is willing to pay for it; theres  no evidence a higher offer was received.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
22 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7032408