K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains about the way AJ Bell Management  Limited has managed  her Self-Invested 
Pension Plan (SIPP) and that fees and charges have caused  its value  to erode. She raised  a 
number of concerns  and questions about why AJ Bell accepted  a modest  cash  transfer 
which was held in a non-interest bearing account,  and didnt let her know  that she might be 
in the wrong type of contract  or that she could transfer out of it. She doesnt  feel these were 
properly answered.  She asked AJ Bell if it could extend the six-month  time limit for bringing a 
complaint to our service and felt shed been  mis-led about this.
background
Through her financial  adviser, Ms G set up a SIPP managed by AJ Bell in 2005. The initial  
intention of the money transferred into the SIPP was for it to be used to help Ms G buy a 
share in a commercial  property. The funds were held in a SIPP cash account ready to be 
transferred into the investment of the property. But this property purchase didnt go ahead 
and the money  remained  where it was.
AJ Bell sent Ms Gs financial adviser an annual  statement each year until 2016, until they 
were sent directly to Ms G. And in 2018, Ms G complained. She said that her SIPP  had been 
funded by a very modest initial cash transfer and had only ever been held in the cash 
account, which now didnt  pay her any interest. She said AJ Bells administration charges 
had eroded its value and were  at a rate for a more complex type of SIPP. She said AJ Bell 
hadnt told her that she might be in the wrong contract or warned her of the escalating  
charges. 
AJ Bell responded to say that the cash account  was non-interest bearing and the funds in it 
were available for investment. The SIPPs monthly fees are debited from this account, and 
the fees applying are confirmed in the annual statement for it. It said Ms G had signed a 
terms of business  letter  in 2005 and this had set out the charging structure for the SIPP.  
AJ Bell said that it believed it had provided  Ms G with sufficient notification  of these fees and 
said had been  her advisers  responsibility to make  investment decisions regarding her SIPP  
and ensure it was suitable for her needs.  It said, Ms Gs SIPP  bank account had originally 
been with one bank, but at the end of 2014 AJ Bell had written to Ms G to say that this bank 
was winding down its business banking division and customers accounts  would  be 
transferred to a different  bank.  It said Ms G had signed an instruction for this and it was 
transferred at the start of 2015. 
Ms G was disappointed with this response  and didnt feel it addressed  her points. She listed  
the questions  that she wanted  answering. In summary, she wanted to know  why it hadnt  told 
her that her SIPP was at risk of depleting  through the charges; why the bank account had 
changed; why AJ Bell hadnt provided her with factual information about other products and 
how the fees she was being charged  could be justified.
Ms G felt that AJ Bell had mis-led her about our rules and procedures. She wants  AJ Bell to 
compensate her for the loss in her SIPPs value.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and didnt think the depletion  of the funds in 
Ms Gs SIPP  was the responsibility  of AJ Bell. He said it had sent statements which wouldve 
shown that the money hadnt  been  invested and what the charges applying  would be for the 
following year.  
Ref: DRN74388582He said there was no regulatory requirement on AJ Bell to have checks in place to recognise  
when such an account would be reduced by charges, and the responsibility for the 
monitoring of Ms Gs investment and giving her advice about  this was her financial advisers.  
The adjudicator said the charges on Ms Gs cash account were applied in accordance  with 
the terms and conditions, which Ms G had signed  to agree to. He said that although AJ Bell 
had said that extending a deadline for the time limit for bringing a complaint to our service 
was out of its control, the adjudicator didnt think there was much of a point in AJ Bell saying 
that it had discretion in waiving this time limit if it had no such  intention  of doing this.
Ms G didnt accept the adjudicators findings. In summary, she said AJ Bell looked  
irresponsible in assuming the statements had been passed onto her when it wouldve written  
to her directly once the value of her SIPP  had dropped so that it couldnt  collect its fees. She 
disagreed that AJ Bell had responded to all of her points and questioned why it hadnt given 
her the factual information that she had the option  to transfer.  She said that if AJ Bells 
systems showed when  its fees could no longer be sustained, then why couldnt it cover  any 
more than this in the interests of customer protection.
Ms G said the adjudicator  had misunderstood  her point  about new customers  of AJ Bell 
paying less than an existing customer,  as her fees increased each year. She didnt think this 
was treating customers fairly. She still felt shed been mis-led  by AJ Bell about  the time limit 
for bringing  her complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms G has raised a number of questions about  her SIPP; AJ Bells  actions and 
responsibilities; and about the adjudicators findings.  Ive taken into account everything  shes  
said, together with AJ Bells responses. However, I dont propose to respond  to each of 
these specific points  individually  here as many  of them are intrinsically linked. Instead, I 
intend to focus  on what  I consider to be the crux of Ms Gs complaint.
SIPPs allow  for a greater choice of investments than an ordinary personal pension,  and this 
incudes investing in commercial property  as Ms G originally intended. A SIPP is structured to 
have an attaching bank account which is used to collect further contributions, sale proceeds  
and other  receipts,  as well as to pay related fees and charges. This account isnt intended  to 
be an investment in itself  it is used to essentially used to service the other investments 
within the SIPP and to meet the expenses of running it.
Ms Gs transfer to AJ Bell remained in this bank account after her plan to buy into a 
commercial property didnt go ahead,  and wasnt used  for an investment for her future 
pension planning.  No more funds were  added to it over the years, and it became  a non-
interest bearing account in 2015. What  this has meant is that AJ Bells management fees 
and charges have  been  deducted over the years, gradually reducing the amount in Ms Gs 
SIPP. 
I can understand Ms Gs strength of feeling about this. Shes  asked a number  of questions of 
AJ Bell about its actions  and responsibility to let her know what  was happening  to her money 
and what could be done to have prevented this. And I know that she feels  that she hasnt 
had the answers  to all of her questions as she wanted. 
Ref: DRN74388583However, AJ Bell isnt authorised to provide financial advice about what investments would 
be right for its customers, and this would include any form of suggestion that she may be 
better off doing something different that could  constitute providing  her with advice. 
Ms Gs SIPP  was set up through her financial adviser and they were responsible for making 
sure it was suitable for her. The fact that its self-invested would  mean that any decisions 
about what those  investments  should be would need  to be made  by her, taking into account 
any financial  advice she make seek or receive.  And, as Ive said,  that isnt something that AJ 
Bell could or would do. 
AJ Bell sent Ms Gs financial adviser the annual statement for her SIPP  over a period of ten 
years until 2015 when the business they were  then working for was no longer authorised  by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. After that, the statements were sent directly to Ms G. 
So, although  AJ Bell may not have  specifically or directly told Ms G she could do something  
different to invest the money in her SIPP, this wasnt its role or responsibility. And I think it 
provided sufficient information  to let Ms G know what the status  of her SIPP was, including 
the deduction of its fees  both for the year past and what they would be for the year ahead.
These fees were based upon  the administration and service  it would provide for the 
management of the SIPP - they werent  tailored  to the specific activity  in the individual SIPP. 
Ms G was made  aware of these fees when she initially accepted  the SIPP  in 2005. Although 
I appreciate that this was some years  ago, as I understand it a further schedule of fees 
wouldve been sent with the annual statement. 
I see Ms Gs point  about what AJ Bell told her about  our time limits. However,  AJ Bell did 
explain that it would not give its permission for us to consider the complaint if its not referred 
to us within six months of the date of that letter, and that we would  only be able to look at it 
in limited circumstances  such as if the reasons  for the delay were exceptional. It also sent 
her our leaflet and a link to the specific relevant section  on our website. So I dont think this 
shows that its intention  was to mis-lead her.
Overall, although I appreciate Ms Gs level of upset about whats happened to the value of 
her SIPP, I dont think this was caused  by anything AJ Bell did wrongly or unfairly. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7438858