K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about how Cabot Credit Management Group Limited  responded to his 
request to remove a charging order.
background
Mr T told us that he jointly owned  a property with his ex-partner. He said that there was a 
declaration of trust in place that meant  he was only entitled  to 5% of the property. Mr T also 
told us that there was a charging  order over the property, which  had been obtained to secure  
his debts. 
Mr Ts ex-partner wanted that order to be removed, so he got in touch with Cabot in 
November to find out what the debt was. He said that it told him it would cost £2,227.  So he 
said that his ex-partner had agreed to pay this from his equity in the house,  but when he 
tried to pay Cabot, it said that the debt was actually  just under £13,000.  
Mr T said that his debt was never that high, and he wanted proof of this. He said his partner 
had since offered Cabot  £3,600 which he thought should be enough to settle  the debt. 
Cabot said that when Mr T rang, hed only been told about one of the debts  secured  on his 
property. But there were three, and Cabot said that he would have  to pay the full amount  of 
all of them  to have  the charge removed. Cabot said it was sorry for this mistake,  and it had 
removed £100  from each of the outstanding  debts  to apologise  for that. But it said that it 
wouldnt accept a lower  offer to settle  the debts.
Mr T said that all negotiations with his ex-partner  were based on the assumption that £2,227  
would settle the debt.  He said that the settlement figure wouldve been  higher if hed known 
that the debt was really almost £13,000. He said that his legal costs were  more than the 
settlement that Cabot  had now offered. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that we couldnt  comment on the parts  
of this complaint  that questioned issues already  decided by a court. But we could look at 
Cabots recent mistake.  Our investigator  said that Cabot had made  a mistake,  and it mustve 
been very shocking for Mr T to find out that his debt was much  higher than he thought. But 
she thought that Cabot  had done enough,  by apologising and removing £300 from Mr Ts 
total debt, to make up for what had gone  wrong  in this case. 
Mr T didnt  agree with that. He said that all negotiations  with his ex-partner were  based on 
the lower settlement amount.  And he said that he wouldve negotiated a higher settlement 
figure if he had known how much he really  owed. He said we hadnt looked at that.
Our investigator said that it wouldnt be fair to hold Cabot  responsible  for that. But Mr T didnt 
agree. He said that Cabot wouldve purchased this debt for a tiny fraction of the money 
owed, but wouldnt  accept a reasonable compromise now to make up for its mistake.  He said 
that what Cabot  was doing wasnt fair and shouldnt be allowed. 
Because Mr T didnt  agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN78456722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this case as our investigator.
Mr T has complained about incorrect information  that he was given in late 2018 about  the 
amount he owed Cabot.  Hes also said he thinks its wrong for Cabot to be able to purchase  
this unsecured debt and then secure  it on property.  He thought that the charging order  over 
a jointly  owned  property should  never have been granted. Our investigator has explained  to 
Mr T that our service  wouldnt look at the issues in this complaint which  have already been  
considered by a court,  like the grant of the charging order  in favour  of Cabot. So those points 
wont form part of my considerations here.
Theres no dispute that Cabot made a mistake when  it first told Mr T how much  he owed it. It 
made that mistake in late November 2018. It corrected its mistake in late December 2018. I 
know Mr T thinks Cabot  should accept something  closer to the first figure it gave him. But I 
dont think that Cabot has to accept the lower figure now, just because  it made a mistake.
Mr T said that hed relied on the first settlement figure that Cabot gave him, when he 
reached an agreement  with his ex- partner to remove all his interest in the property that was 
subject to the charging order.  He said that he wouldve negotiated a much  higher settlement 
if hed been properly advised  of how much he owed. 
We asked Mr T for further information  on how this settlement was negotiated. He showed us 
a letter  dated  14 December which offered him a settlement of £50,000 if he paid off the 
Cabot debt. I understand that Mr T has now entered into this settlement agreement  with his 
former partner, and paid off the Cabot debt.  It looks, from the documents hes sent us, as if 
this settlement wasnt actually final before Mr T found out about Cabots mistake. So I think 
that Mr T had an opportunity to reopen  the settlement, to take account of the actual amount 
he owed, if his ex-partner  was willing  to pay more. He has told us that she wouldnt reopen 
the negotiations.
We also asked Cabot  to show us what it had sent Mr T, to make  him aware of his debt. 
Before Mr T asked  it how much he owed in 2018, the last time Cabot seems  to have 
discussed this debt with Mr T, and referred to the whole amount, seems to have been in 
2010. Cabot hasnt shown us any letters which referred to the whole amount and which  were 
sent to Mr T after 2010 but before late 2018. So its possible  that Mr T may simply have 
forgotten how much he owed.
I accept that it mustve been extremely disappointing for Mr T to discover that he would get 
to keep a small portion  of the proposed settlement. He said that hed tried to renegotiate this, 
but failed. But, because Mr T knew how much he really owed Cabot well before this 
settlement was finalised, and because that didnt change the settlement amount, I dont think  
that the settlement Mr T eventually entered into was affected by what  Cabot did.
But, as Ive said, it mustve been  disappointing  for Mr T to realise  that he would have  to pay 
Cabot just under £13,000, not a little over £2,000, if he wanted to get the £50,000 settlement 
from his ex-partner. That meant that less of that money would  be left for him. I think  its 
reasonable for Cabot to take some steps to compensate Mr T for this disappointment. But 
Cabot did do something. It reduced  his overall  debt by £300. And I note that Mr T directly 
Ref: DRN78456723and promptly benefitted from that, as the payment he made  to Cabot from the settlement he 
received was £300 less as a result. 
I think that provides  a fair and reasonable  outcome  to this complaint. I dont  think  Cabot has 
to do more than that. So, although I know that Mr T will be disappointed, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7845672