K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about the way in which  Fairmead  Insurance Limited (trading at the time as 
Legal and General Insurance  Limited) handled a claim he made under his home insurance 
policy for damage to his property following an escape of water.  
As of 1 January 2020, Legal and General Insurance Limited became part of Liverpool 
Victoria. And now that they are owned by Liverpool  Victoria they will be trading under the 
name Fairmead Insurance Limited.  But for ease  of reference in this decision I shall continue  
to refer to them as Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G)
background
Mr O took out home insurance with L&G in March  2018. On 26 September 2018  he had a 
builder attend his property due to the smell in his kitchen. The builder  found  damage under 
the kitchen units  which had resulted in rotten floorboards, amongst other damage.  Mr O 
initially intended to carry out the work  himself.  Due to the urgent nature of the damage he felt 
the remedial works needed to commence immediately. 
Soon after Mr O realised that the damage was extensive, and the cost would be too 
expensive for him to finance so he contacted L&G on 10 October 2018 to make a claim on 
the policy. L&G instructed a surveyor  to visit the property on 17 October  2018.  When  he 
attended, he found that the repairs  to the kitchen  had been completed.  There was some  
dispute on what was requested by the surveyor. But Mr O couldnt provide a cause of 
damage report, an invoice or estimate  of works.  
L&G declined the claim based on the surveyors report as they were  unable to ascertain  the 
cause of damage. The surveyor also felt the images provided by Mr O indicated  long 
standing damage  which had been  ongoing over a period of time. And because  Mr O had 
completed all the work, L&G say he had prejudiced the claim as they were unable  to 
determine the cause of the damage. Mr O didnt agree and felt the claim should have been 
accepted so complained to L&G  he also felt the decision to decline the claim was made  by 
the surveyor and not L&G. 
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint and reiterated as the repairs  had been  carried  out, the 
surveyor they instructed  was unable to validate the claim because  he was unable to inspect  
the damage. Considering  the photos provided by Mr O, L&Gs surveyor also felt that the 
damage would have been visible sooner and felt the damage could not have been attributed 
to a one-off  insured event  that the policy  covered. So L&G said in the final response that the 
damage was caused by gradual events  which are not covered under the policy. 
Mr O didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked  into 
what happened and didnt uphold it. They thought it was fair for L&G to ask Mr O to provide 
evidence of the cause of damage considering he had already completed the majority of 
works to his property. And they didnt think L&G had done anything  wrong  in declining  his 
claim. But Mr O didnt  agree and asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
Because I didnt agree  with our investigators  view of the complaint, I decided to issue  a 
provisional decision before I made my final decision.  This allowed both parties  to comment  
on my thinking before  I made my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsmans  
Services last word  on the case.
Ref: DRN75179242my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im currently  thinking of partially  
upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.  
Mr O is claiming  for the cost of repairs for extensive damage to his property. He says 
the damage is a direct  result of two leaks  one from a waste pipe under the sink and 
the second from a pipe embedded in the wall. L&G have declined the claim on the 
basis that the damage caused to the property was as a result of gradual  events and 
not a one-off  insured  event. 
Mr Os policy  provides  cover for damage caused to his property by a range of insured 
events. The specific events are listed in the policy and, of relevance to this claim  
include damage caused by an escape  of water from anyplumbed in domestic  water  
or heating  installation. For any claim to be successful, its a requirement in the first 
instance for Mr O to show that an insured  event  has occurred  and that its caused 
damage to his property.  If he can meet this requirement, L&G is required to settle the 
claim unless  it can show  a policy exclusion or condition applies.
In this instance, Mr O has claimed for escape  of water damage to his property and 
L&G have instructed a surveyor  to investigate  the claim in a way Id normally  expect. 
On the basis of the investigations, the surveyor  on behalf of L&G raised some 
concerns because the majority of the work had been completed. L&G say they asked 
Mr O to provide a cause  of damage report  Mr O hasnt provided  this, but he 
disputes he was asked to  he says he was asked to provide an invoice for the 
works. But he hasnt  provided this either  or even an estimate of the works from the 
builder who carried out the work. 
I dont think these requests were  unreasonable. I say this because Mr O has made a 
claim for significant damage, but most  of the work had been completed before  L&G 
were able to review it. And apart  from some  photos, Mr O hasnt been  able to provide 
any further information like estimates  or invoices, as I would have expected.  But 
despite not sending any of the requested information, L&G accepts an insured event 
has occurred  escape of water   which but for the gradual damage exclusion they 
are relying on, would be covered under Mr Os policy.
Common to most insurance  policies,  theres an exclusion  for any damage caused  
gradually. So strictly applying the terms,  Mr O may not be covered if the damage was 
indeed gradual.  But this service has a long-standing approach to gradual damage 
which L&G is no doubt aware of. We say its unfair for an insurer to rely on the 
gradual damage exclusion to decline a claim if the damage was caused by 
something that is covered by the policy (like an escape of water) and the policyholder  
was unaware, or couldnt reasonably have been aware, that the damage was 
occurring and did something as soon as they became aware. 
L&Gs surveyor said the images indicated some long-standing damage rather  than a 
one-off event. As the claim relates  to damage caused by two leaks,  I will consider 
them separately below.  
Ref: DRN75179243damage to the kitchen  units  and floor/tiles
Mr O explained there  was a leak from the waste pipe under the sink and this caused 
damage to the kitchen  units  and floor. Having considered the evidence  provided, I 
think its likely the leak would have  been visible or at the least there would have been 
signs of damage to the kitchen units and the floor/tiles sooner than Mr O reported  it. I 
say this because  the leak was under the sink in an accessible cupboard. Some of the 
photos provided by Mr O show signs of damage to the inside of the cupboard and 
given the damage  to the floorboards is extensive  enough to become rotten, which  
appears to be over a period of time,  I believe the damage would have been 
noticeable much  sooner  than it was reported.  So it follows, in regard to the leak from 
the waste pipe I currently think L&G was entitled  to rely on the policy exclusion to 
decline this part of Mr Os claim and I dont  think it was unreasonable for them to do 
so. 
damage to the wall
Unlike the other leak, theres no suggestion  that Mr O was aware the damage was 
occurring to the wall which  housed the leaking pipe. It was hidden  from view and it 
seems it was only revealed as a result of the work  he was undertaking to repair the 
leak from the waste pipe.  So Mr O couldnt have been aware of the damage 
occurring, or do anything to stop if before he did.
Our approach to gradual damage is adopted  because the initial  cause of the damage 
(escape of water)  is something thats covered by the policy.  And its unfair to deny a 
policyholder the cover  provided by the policy when theyve done  nothing wrong and 
its simply the case that the leak wasnt severe  enough to mean  the damage showed
Immediately and I think Mr O took action as soon as he became aware.
So it follows,  I currently think its unfair  for L&G to rely on the gradual  damage 
exclusion to decline this part of the claim. L&G is aware of this services approach 
gradual damage claims and should,  I think,  have  applied  it to this part of Mr Os 
claim. But I also need to be mindful that Mr O hasnt given L&G any schedule  of 
works, invoice or anything  else in relation to the repairs. So I currently  think that if Mr 
O wants L&G to consider this, he should  provide them with the details so they can 
then consider this part of the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Ive also thought about Mr Os comments on the surveyor  declining  the claim rather 
than L&G.  But it was ultimately L&Gs responsibility to decide the claim either directly 
or through  their agents (their surveyor in this case)   so I dont think  theyve done 
anything wrong  here. 
On that basis, I was minded to partially uphold Mr As complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Mr O responded to my provisional decision and raised the following main  points:
he was unaware  of the leak from the waste pipe under the sink because the leak was 
from behind the back panel of kitchen  unit and he only became aware  once the 
builder removed the back panel.  
Ref: DRN75179244he says a cause  of damage  report wasnt  requested  by the surveyor  and feels  the 
cause of damage had already been  established  and the surveyor  should have 
prepared a scope  of works. 
 L&G also responded to my provisional  decision and they raised the following main points:
because Mr O had previously claimed  for escape of water  on another property  he 
would have been aware of the claims process  and by carrying  out the work to the 
property he prejudiced their position.  
the amount  of work  completed to the kitchen was very extensive so they feel it may 
predate the policy.  And the extent of the damage  demonstrates  the smell would have  
been quite bad so they were unsure how could Mr O continued  to reside  at the 
property without noticing sooner. 
if they are to reconsider their position they will record this as two claims, apply two 
excesses and request  the following information:
oconfirmation he is the home owner and this property is not tenanted as his 
other was
oconfirmation that he actually lives there,  i.e. Local  Authority  bills etc
oa full schedule  of repairs and prices
oconfirmation of the individual leaks, and what may have a caused them in 
writing from his builder
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  again  about the 
conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  However I have answered the points put forward  by Mr O and 
L&G.
Ive considered the further information  provided by Mr O about the leak from the waste  pipe 
under the sink and the comments  made by L&G about the extent of the damage.  As set out 
in my provisional decision I think this its likely the leak would have been visible, or at the 
least there would  have been  signs of damage  to the kitchen units and the floor/tiles sooner 
than Mr O reported them. I appreciate Mr O says the damage was occurring behind  the back  
panel of the kitchen unit but photos provided by Mr O show water  damage can be seen to 
the inside  of the kitchen  unit beyond the bank  panel.  So I believe the damage would have 
been noticeable sooner  than when it was reported  by Mr O.
Mr O disputes he was asked to provide a cause of damage report  and says that the invoices 
werent available at the time. But as mentioned I think L&G accepts an insured event has 
occurred  escape of water   which but for the gradual damage exclusion they are relying 
on, would  be covered  under Mr Os policy. 
L&G said that if they are to reconsider  then they will record this as two claims and will ask 
Mr O to provide further information to consider the claim. Ive already said that its for L&G to 
consider the remaining claim subject  to the policy terms   so I dont think its unreasonable 
for them to request further information to help them consider the claim. 
Ref: DRN75179245my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I partially  uphold the complaint. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should consider Mr Os claim for the damage to his wall  
subject to the remaining policy terms  on receipt of Mr O providing the relevant information.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7517924