K820x#14complaint
Mrs P and Mr H says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs P, Mr H and the late Mrs L took out an PPI policy  with a mortgage in 1986. They paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy. They  took further advances  in 1987 and 1988 when the PPI 
was amended. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P and Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs P and Mr Hs case.  Ive also thought about their 
circumstances at the time of the original  sale, and each amendment  of the policy.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
Because the sale was so long ago, its understandable that there is little evidence of the 
sales process that was used. But I dont think I can reasonably  say that Santander didnt 
make the late Mrs L, Mrs P and Mr H aware  that they had a choice about buying  the PPI, 
or that they didnt choose to take it. I appreciate Mrs P and Mr H say they didnt agree to 
take PPI. But I dont think I can reasonably uphold  the complaint based  solely  on their 
memory of a sale that took place over thirty  years  ago. Especially  when theyve said they 
dont remember where or how they took out the mortgage, or if PPI was discussed. 
Santander probably recommended the PPI to the late Mrs L, Mrs P and Mr H. But it 
seems to have been right for them based on what theyve said about their circumstances 
at the time. 
Its possible that Santander couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But even  if it had, I think the late Mrs L, Mrs P and Mr H would still have bought it  given 
how little it cost and the benefit it provided  (paying  the mortgage for up to 24 months if 
Mrs P or Mr H had been unable  to work). 
Its possible Santander didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Mrs P 
and Mr H dont appear to have been affected  by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission  and profit share dont 
apply because the mortgage  ended  in 2002.  So, I cant  see any reason why Santander 
would have to refund any of the commission it received.  
Ive taken into account Mrs P and Mr Hs comments. But these points dont change  my 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN75252892my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7525289