K820x#14complaint
Ms T says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2009.  The policy was added  to 
Ms Ts credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ts case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
 Barclays hasnt been  able to provide a copy of Ms Ts application form for the credit 
card. But its provided a sample  of the type of form in use at the time. It includes a box 
to tick if the applicant wishes to take PPI. I think its likely that the PPI was added  to 
Ms Ts account because she ticked the box to indicate that she wished to take the 
cover. 
 Ive also borne in mind that the PPI was available  to cover life, accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. But Ms T only took cover against life, accident and sickness. So it 
looks as if she chose  the particular cover that she wanted. Overall, I think  Barclays 
made Ms T aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it  although 
I can understand why she can no longer remember this.
 Ms T applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So I think  its unlikely that Barclays  
advised her to take the PPI. It was for Ms T to decide whether she wished to take the 
cover, knowing what other  means  shed have had of making  her monthly  credit  card 
payments if she was off sick. But Barclays did have a responsibility to give Ms T 
enough information to decide  whether  the PPI was right for her.
 Ive borne in mind that Ms Ts told us shed  have  been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months  half pay from her employer if shed been  off sick. But the policy 
would have paid out for up to 12 months if Ms T had made a successful claim for 
accident or sickness. Thats longer than shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. 
Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Ms T received  from 
her employer. So she could have used those to meet other  day-to-day  expenses.  
Ref: DRN78584292 Taking everything  into account, I think the policy could have been useful for Ms T, 
especially as shes told us that aside from payments from her employer, she didnt 
have any other means she could  have used to make her monthly credit card payments 
if shed been off sick.
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained that Im satisfied  that Ms T chose to take out the 
policy. So she appears to have wanted  this type of cover,  even if shes understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances when she 
took the policy out, she wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. The policy  was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. And since  Ms T 
was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost.
 So overall, I think it unlikely Ms T would  have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.
This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms T about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Ms T, 
that was unfair.
To put that right,  Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Ms T any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7858429