K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc didnt adhere  to the repayment plan he agreed with it. 
Hes also unhappy that adverse information  and default markers were recorded on his credit  
file.
background
Mr C held a credit card with Santander.  Santander  said Mr Cs account first fell into arrears 
in 2017. Mr C said this was due to a change in his financial circumstances after health 
issues affected his income. Santander  said when Mr Cs account fell into arrears in 2017 he 
contacted it to make it aware of his financial  difficulties and request its help. 
To assist Mr C, Santander agreed to suspend interest and charges on his account.  He 
entered into a repayment plan for 18 months whereby he would make  a minimum payment 
of £50.21 per month. He paid this for about six months but he said within  the first two months 
of the plan being agreed by Santander  it incorrectly changed it to a pay down arrangement.
When Mr C queried what  had happened Santander accepted  it had made an error and it 
agreed to reinstate the original repayment  plan. But the same thing happened again. And 
this ultimately resulted  in information being recorded  by Santander on Mr Cs credit file and 
interest and charges being applied to his account.  After Mr C ceased  making  payments 
towards his account  balance  Santander  defaulted  his account and passed his debt to a third 
party.  
Mr C complained about this to Santander. It apologised for the errors and compensated him 
£130 to recognise  the impact it thought this had all had on him. But it didnt think it had made 
an error in reporting  information about how Mr C had managed his account to credit 
reference agencies  and it wasnt prepared to amend that information because it said it 
needed to report  financial information accurately.
Being unhappy with Santanders response  to his complaint, Mr C referred  it to us. Our 
investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr C, didnt uphold his 
complaint. They thought  the information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file was accurate and fair. 
And they didnt think Santander needed  to do anything more here. They  thought that £130 
compensation was appropriate and fair. But Mr C disagreed and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by this 
outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Santander has accepted it gave Mr C misleading  information in the past regarding his 
repayment plan.  Its apologised to Mr C for what  happened and explained that its errors  here 
were caused  by a system fault. And its already paid him £130 to compensate  him for the 
misinformation it gave  him and the impact it believes this had. Its clear  that Mr C doesnt 
think thats enough given the upset and stress he was caused.  In thinking about  whether the 
compensation Santander has already paid Mr C adequately recognises whats happened 
Ref: DRN77317082Ive considered things  from both sides  and Ive carefully thought about the impact this all had 
on him.
I can see that in 2017  Santander took Mr Cs health and financial difficulties into account. It 
completed an income and expenditure assessment with him so it could understand his 
financial situation and what  he could afford  to pay towards his balance. And based on the 
information he had provided it agreed a fixed 18 month repayment plan with Mr C whereby it 
would cease collection activity and waive fees and charges provided  he pay £50.21  per 
month. Im persuaded that Santander properly looked at the information  Mr C had provided 
about his finances.  
Ive also seen evidence  that Santander  waived interest and fees on Mr Cs account. When  a 
customer is experiencing financial difficulties a lender has an obligation to treat them  
positively and sympathetically. But this doesnt mean a bank has to waive or freeze  interest. 
It can take other action  instead, such as reducing the interest rate or restructuring payments, 
although theres no obligation on it do so. Having thought about what Santander did here Im 
satisfied it treated Mr C positively and sympathetically and took the steps Id expect a bank 
to take when approached by someone  in financial difficulty. 
Santander gave  Mr C the opportunity to set up a repayment plan. But I understand that plan 
ended when Mr Cs account entered into a pay down arrangement.  When  he queried this 
with Santander  it accepted it had made  an error and agreed to reinstate the original 
repayment agreement. Following the reinstatement of Mr Cs repayment plan, Santanders 
system continued to cancel his agreement, which  again led to his account  being placed into 
a pay down arrangement.
I can understand why this caused Mr C distress and frustration. And I appreciate  the 
inconvenience he was put to when  he had to contact Santander to query why these mistakes 
happened. But I think Santander  tried its best,  notwithstanding its system faults, to work with 
Mr C and to be sympathetic to his health  and financial difficulties. 
As our investigator explained to Mr C, once a bank  has agreed a repayment plan it shouldnt 
try to change  it until the agreed review point unless  theres an unexpected  change in a 
customers financial situation that makes it appropriate to review arrangements sooner.
In Mr Cs case, an income and expenditure enquiry by Santander showed that he had 
sufficient disposable  income to pay his debt quicker. Santander considered this to be a 
positive change in Mr Cs financial  circumstances. And it decided to apply interest  and 
charges to the balance of his account.  In such situations Santander  is entitled  to review a 
repayment plan prior to it expiring. 
Mr C said he didnt fully complete the income  and expenditure  enquiry as he didnt have 
access to all the information he needed  at the time. But, having already  completed  one of 
these documents  Im satisfied that Mr C ought  to have appreciated the importance of the 
information he was providing to Santander.  And if it was incomplete and inaccurate I think 
the onus was on him to make Santander aware of this and to provide any missing  
information it needed. Theres no evidence he did this. So, I cant  fairly find that Santander 
erred when it used  the information  it had been  given. 
Given Santanders view about  Mr Cs income I cant fairly find it made an error  in applying 
interest and charges to his account.  They were applied in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Cs account.  And Im not persuaded it was unreasonable  or unfair for it to do 
Ref: DRN77317083so. During the pay down  arrangement Mr C was able to pay a monthly amount to suit his 
personal circumstances and budget. And I can see from the correspondence Santander sent 
Mr C during 2017 and 2018 that he was signposted  to appropriate debt charities  for advice. 
Based on what Ive seen  Im satisfied that Santander acted  appropriately here.
Its clear that Mr C feels the pay down arrangement has impacted  negatively on his credit 
file. But, Im satisfied that the impact on Mr Cs credit file of a repayment plan and pay down  
arrangement would have been  the same.  Theres no evidence that the errors made by 
Santander here made a difference. I say this because when a customer enters into a 
repayment plan Santander records this on their credit file in the same  way it would record  a 
pay down arrangement. It explained that this entry will highlight  to other creditors that a 
customer has entered into a controlled  arrangement to repay  their outstanding balance, 
which can be viewed negatively by some creditors. This is something Santander isnt able to 
control or influence because its up to other  businesses and lenders how they treat such  
information. Santander stated that a pay down arrangement and a repayment  plan would be 
recorded the same manner on a customers credit file. So, Im satisfied the effect on a 
customers credit file would be the same.
Financial  businesses should make sure that the information they report  to credit reference 
agencies is accurate. Mr C didnt maintain his account in line with its terms and conditions.  
And this is what Santander  reported.  I cant say Santander acted unfairly and unreasonably 
in reporting this information.  So, I cant ask it to remove any information it may have  
recorded about the way in which Mr C was repaying his balance.  
After October 2017 Mr C didnt make  any payments towards his monthly balance. And the 
arrears on his account continued  to build. So, Santander sent him a default notice in 
December 2018.  This letter explained  to Mr C what action Santander was likely to take in the 
event that his account wasnt brought  up to date. And in January 2019 a default was 
registered on Mr Cs credit file. The following month,  his account was passed  over to a debt 
collection agency.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I dont think it was wrong of Santander to default Mr Cs 
account. I say this because when an account goes into arrears  for a number of months,  as 
Mr Cs did here, a business is entitled to issue a default. 
I think it was reasonable  for Santander to pass it to a debt management company and issue 
a default. The terms and conditions of Mr Cs credit card allow this. And the guidelines say 
that a default should  be recorded on a customers credit file to reflect  this. These  guidelines 
are set out by the Information Commissioners  Office and say that a default should  be 
recorded when  the account is in arrears by 3-6 months.
In Mr Cs case, by the time Santander had registered a default  on his credit  file, he had 
missed 15 months of payments towards  his account  balance. Im satisfied  that Santander 
appropriately wrote  to Mr C on multiple  occasions  telling  him what  he needed to do to bring  
his account up to date and what it could  do to help him. It also gave him information about  
where to seek independent  help from free debt advice organisations, which I think  was good 
advice in the circumstances. 
Having seen the default notice Santander  sent Mr C Im satisfied it clearly  advised him he 
was in arrears. It also told him how much  he had to pay to bring  the account up to date and 
what would  happen  if he didnt take action.  I understand that Mr C didnt  respond  to the 
Ref: DRN77317084default notice  Santander sent him and he hasnt disputed  Santanders  assertion that it was 
sent to him.
Mr C told our service  that he stopped making  payments  temporarily because  he found it time 
consuming and stressful  to make payments over the telephone.  But it was Mr Cs 
responsibility to maintain  payments on his account. Based on the letters Ive seen Im 
satisfied that Santander  explained clearly what would happen if he didnt make payments  as 
required. 
While I appreciate the default  will affect Mr Cs credit  score  for some time, Im satisfied 
Santander reported this information  properly to credit reference  agencies. I cant say it acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  in doing  so and I cant ask it to remove  these entries as theyre a 
true reflection of what happened. I can see Mr C has already been  advised that he can put a 
notice of correction  on his credit file if he wishes so this can be taken into account with 
future lending applications. Its up to individual  lenders how they consider this though.
I appreciate the reasons why Mr C brought this complaint to our service. And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But, Im satisfied the £130  Santander  has already 
paid adequately recognises  the trouble and upset Mr C was caused by changes it made to 
his repayment  plan. And Im persuaded that this amount reflects  the inconvenience  he was 
undoubtedly put to in discussing what happened  with Santander. I think Santander acted 
fairly in reporting  information about  how Mr C was managing his account to credit  reference 
agencies. So, for the reasons given, Im satisfied Santander acted fairly and reasonably and 
Im not going  to be asking it do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7731708