K821x#15complaint
Mrs F says Quidie  Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 3 instalment loans Quidie provided to Mrs F between October 2017 
and March 2018. Mrs Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 21/10/2017 04/12/2017 2 £100.00 £64.27
2 12/02/2018 04/03/2018 2 £100.00 £57.43
3 04/03/2018 09/02/2019 6 £200.00 £51.86
Mrs F said Quidie  had not sufficiently checked  the affordability of the loans and she says she 
was locked into debt by repaying  the loans in full and borrowing again. She concludes the 
loans were made irresponsibly to her.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Fs complaint and thought loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt  have  been  
given. Quidie did not respond  to our adjudicators view, so it was assumed it disagreed  with 
it and the complaint was passed  to me to look at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quidie needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs F could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quidie should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN78438252There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. However, I dont think we reach  that point 
here, in Mrs Fs case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidie was required to establish 
whether Mrs F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Fs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 1, 2 and 3 would most likely 
have shown that Mrs F was not managing her money well. I saw the credit check  which  
Quidie would have  seen for loan 1 and it suggested  Mrs F had 3 other short-term loan 
commitments at that time.  Such  a result should  have  prompted Quidie to investigate further 
into Mrs Fs finances, but I dont see any evidence that it did ask her further at that stage 
about the other short-term loans. With that borrowing history in mind,  I think it was unlikely 
Mrs F was able to sustain loan 1 onwards.  So I dont  think  Quidie should have given Mrs F 
loans 1, 2 and 3.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 1, 2 and 3 and Quidie should put things  
right.
putting things right  what Quidie Limited needs to do
Quidie Limited shouldnt have given Mrs F loans 1, 2 and 3. Quidie Limited should:
A)  Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs F towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans,  including  payments made  to a third party  where applicable, 
but not including anything  Quidie Limited has already  refunded.
B)  Calculate 8% per year simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs F originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Mrs F the total of A plus B.
Ref: DRN78438253D) Remove any adverse payment information  you have recorded on Mrs Fs credit  file in 
relation to loans  1, 2 and 3. If Quidie  Limited has sold any of the loans,  it should  ask 
the debt purchaser  to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie  Limited  to deduct tax from this interest.  Quidie 
Limited should give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax Quidie Limited has deducted, 
if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Fs complaint. Quidie Limited should put 
things right for Mrs F as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7843825