K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  wont extend to them  a benefit  that it 
now offers  customers who have signed  up more  recently.
background
Mr and Mrs B told us that they had an annual service for their boiler, as part of their boiler  
breakdown insurance  policy.  That service  highlighted that they would need a new boiler.  
Mr B got in touch with Aviva,  who said that he was covered  for a free replacement, and 
would just need to pay for installation. But then he was told that he was on an older policy,  
and the terms of that policy  meant  he was only covered  for a contribution of £200 towards 
the new boiler. 
Mr B said that he and Mrs B were unhappy,  because the terms and conditions  changed only 
a month  into their policy. So if they had renewed a month later,  they would have a new boiler 
for free. They didnt  think it was fair for them to miss out on that benefit.
Aviva said that Mr and Mrs Bs policy definitely  didnt entitle  them to a new boiler. Under their 
policy, if Aviva couldnt repair their boiler,  it would cancel their policy  and refund any 
outstanding premium. It would also make  a contribution of £200 towards a new boiler. It said 
that it hadnt added the provision about  paying  for a new boiler  if the customer paid for 
installation until about a month  after they renewed their policy. 
Aviva said that it had given Mr and Mrs B the wrong information about  their policy, because  it 
had told them that they were entitled to the free replacement. It was sorry about  that. It has 
said that if they want to use a specific  provider, then it would offer them a £500  reduction in 
the installation  costs, in addition to the £200  that they are entitled  to under their policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Aviva was entitled to change  the 
terms and conditions of this policy for new customers, as long as it was clear about  that. 
Mr and Mrs B had agreed to the terms of the policy as they were  in January 2018. Our 
investigator said that it was unfortunate that Mr and Mrs B hadnt benefitted from the new 
term, but it wasnt unfair for Aviva to apply  the terms of their policy.  And that was what it had 
done in this case. 
Our investigator said that Aviva had offered to reduce  the cost of a replacement  boiler  by 
£500. Our investigator  thought that was a fair way to resolve  this issue. She didnt think  
Aviva had to do more than that.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with that. They said that they had been customers  of this insurer  
for eleven years. They said that anyone  joining  after February 2018 would receive  much  
better service than they had received after eleven  years of membership. And Mr and Mrs B 
said that the offer of a £500 reduction for a new boiler only applied if they used a linked 
company. Theyd  checked, and the quote from that company wasnt competitive. So they 
said that if our investigators decision was based  on the fact that Aviva was giving  them 
£500, it was wrong.  
Our investigator didnt  change her mind about  whether what Aviva  had done  was fair. Mr and 
Mrs B wanted to take their complaint further,  so it was passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN70859792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint seems  to me to raise two issues. One is that they arent entitled to 
something that Avivas  new customers will get. And the other is that they were  initially given 
the wrong information about what they were entitled to under their policy.
I realise that Mr and Mrs B feel very aggrieved that Aviva has recently  changed its policy 
terms, and that because their renewal  date fell before this change was made,  they wont  
benefit from something that wouldve  helped  in their current circumstances. They  feel 
particularly strongly about  this, because they have been customers of this insurer for so 
long. Ive taken  that into account  in reaching my decision. 
But, at core, all that Aviva  is doing is applying the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. Im sorry to 
have to tell them that I agree with our investigator, that its not unfair  for Aviva  to do that. And 
I still think that, even if Aviva now offers different terms  to its newer customers,  which Mr and 
Mrs B would very much have preferred. I dont think that I can fairly insist that Aviva extends  
these benefits  to people like Mr and Mrs B, who renewed their policy before these changes 
were made.
I also note that Mr and Mrs B were initially given  some  wrong  information  about what they 
were entitled  to under their policy. Thats unfortunate,  but Aviva has apologised for that, and 
it has offered a discount if Mr and Mrs B choose to use its linked supplier  to install  a new 
boiler. 
I know that Mr and Mrs B have told us that this linked supplier isnt competitive. So I 
understand that they may feel that this offer has little or no value. But in making this offer, 
Aviva has still gone well beyond what it is required to do under Mr and Mrs Bs policy. So I 
also agree  with our investigator, that this provides a fair resolution  to the complaint that they 
made about being given  the wrong  information about their policy.  
I realise that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed,  but I dont think that their complaint should 
be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7085979