K822xcomplaint
Mr L is complaining about  the amount FCE Bank  Plc (FCE)  has charged him after he 
handed a car back hed acquired on a hire purchase  agreement  when the agreement  ended.
background 
Mr L entered into a hire purchase agreement with FCE to acquire a car. At the end of the 
agreement he returned the car to the supplying dealership. FCE said that there was damage 
to the car that would be considered more than fair wear and tear. It also said the car didnt 
have an MOT or the service book.  And it said that the car had travelled 669 more miles than 
contractually allowed. So it charged Mr L £588.17. It said this was for the following (exclusive 
of VAT):
Front bumper  £90 
Rear bumper  £90
Rear wing  £120
Front door  £120
Left front wheel  £30
Excess mileage  £40.14
Mr L doesnt think FCE can charge what it has. He said that the dealership was supposed to 
inspect the car with him and highlight  the issues it considered to be outside  of fair wear  and 
tear, but he says it didnt do so. And he thinks FCE has fraudulently added additional 
damages to the vehicle  condition report he signed when he handed the car back. He also 
says he wasnt given  a copy of the report. Given this, he didnt think FCE can charge him for 
the damage.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and partially upheld  it. She said she couldnt see 
anything to show damage to the wheel. So she didnt think FCE could charge for that. But 
she was satisfied FCE could charge  for the remaining damage.  
FCE accepted  the adjudicators findings. Mr L didnt agree. He accepted  that FCE could 
charge for the excess mileage he travelled. But he maintained that FCE didnt follow the 
correct procedure when  he returned  the car. So he still didnt think it could charge anything 
else and he asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  So the complaints been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons.   
Under the terms of the finance agreement, Mr L is responsible for any damage thats 
considered to be more  than fair wear and tear. My role in this decision is to assess at 
whether it was fair for FCE to charge for the damage  it says was present when Mr L handed 
the car back. Mr L says that FCE cant  charge  him for any damage because  it didnt follow  
the correct procedure. But I dont agree.  
Ref: DRN73680092I can see that Mr L was given a supplementary booklet which said that he had the right to 
dispute any damage the dealership or FCE highlights. And it sets out that he can do this on 
the vehicle condition report he signed.  But the contract doesnt  specify that it can only 
charge if Mr L agrees  to the damage. 
Mr L says that he thinks the dealership has completed the damage section after hed 
returned the car and left the premises. But I havent  seen anything  to support that. FCE has 
provided photographs of the damage its charging for with the exception  of the wheel. As it 
cant evidence this, I agree with the adjudicator that it cant  charge Mr L for any damage that 
may or may not be there. 
But I think its most likely the remaining damage  was present when Mr L returned the car. I 
note that the second inspection report was carried out around 11 days after Mr L returned 
the car. But Im also conscious that the report highlighted that the car didnt have  a current  
MOT or been serviced within the required timeframes.  So I think  this does suggest that the 
car wasnt maintained  in accordance with Mr Ls obligations set out in the agreement.  And I 
also think it would be considered more than fair wear and tear given the age and mileage of 
the car: 
In assessing whether  damage would be considered more than fair wear  and tear its 
common practice to review this against  guidelines set out by the British Vehicle Rental & 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA).
The BVRLA guidelines set out that it considers 'scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are 
acceptable, relative to the vehicle's age and mileage, and provided  the primer or bare metal  
is not showing' to be more  than fair wear  and tear. It also says that dents (up to 10mm in 
diameter) are acceptable provided there  are no more than two per panel and the paint 
surface is not broken. In this case, I note the following:
Theres a deep scratch  on the left-hand side of the front bumper;
There a scratch on the rear bumper which has gone through to the primer;
Theres a scratch and a small dent on the rear quarter panel; and
Theres a long scratch to the right front door.
I think all the scratches  set out above  are more  than 25mm and the dent on the rear quarter  
panel has broken  the paint surface. Taking this into account, the BVRLA  guidelines and what  
I think is fair and reasonable, I dont think it was unreasonable for FCE to charge for this 
damage. I also think the amount its charging  Mr L for the damage  is fair. 
FCE also says that Mr L travelled 669 more than he was contractually entitled to. And its 
charged him £48.17 for this. I think this is fair and Mr L hasnt  disputed  this charge either.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require FCE Bank Plc to reduce  the amount its charging Mr L to £552.17.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7368009