K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the increases on their home insurance policy premiums, 
held with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
The policy was sold by Bank A. The policy was underwritten by two insurers,  but Aviva,  as 
the principle underwriter, is responsible  for answering Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about the 
increases in their premiums.
background 
Mr and Mrs S took out a home insurance underwritten  by Aviva when they took out a 
mortgage with Bank  A in 1999.
Mr and Mrs Ss home insurance  was called Homecover Plus  and provided buildings and 
contents insurance including cover for accidental damage.
The Homecover Plus policy was a block policy and was index-linked. 
A block policy is where an underwriter creates an insurance policy  for a group of consumers. 
In this case Aviva created  a home insurance policy for Bank  A to offer its consumers taking out 
mortgages. The policy covered the same things for all consumers, for example accidental 
damage to contents,  and the cover couldnt be amended or changed by consumers.
In this case, a home insurance policy that is index linked, meant the amount it covered 
went up and down over time alongside an index that tracked the change in the cost of 
rebuilding houses.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy cost around  £400  for the year (excluding Insurance Premium Tax  
IPT) in 1999.
Mr and Mrs S paid for the policy on a monthly basis,  but it automatically  renewed each year.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt  speak with Bank A or Aviva about the cost of the insurance  at renewal 
and it just renewed automatically.  The policys cost increased over the years. In 2015,  
Mr and Mrs Ss annual  premium was around  £950 (excluding IPT).
Mr and Mrs S cancelled  the policy in February 2016  after discovering they could obtain 
alternative home insurance for considerably cheaper.  Mr and Mrs S obtained home 
insurance for around £380 for the year.
Because of the difference in price  between the two policies, Mr and Mrs S complained to 
Bank A. They considered they had been treated unfairly and had been  overcharged for 
many years. Mr and Mrs S wanted  to be refunded the difference they considered  they had 
been overpaying.
Bank A reviewed Mr and Mrs Ss concerns and didnt uphold their complaint. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs S referred the complaint to our service.
While the complaint was with our service, the complaint was passed to Aviva  and recently it 
offered to refund some of the cost of the policy. 
Ref: DRN79398572It explained that as Mr and Mrs Ss policy was index-linked, the sum insured was adjusted  
each year to cover the cost of rebuilding the property.  The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which Aviva then used to gauge  
what the likely cost to rebuild the property would be and in turn set the price. 
Aviva, having reviewed  the premiums over the years,  explained there were times when 
Mr and Mrs Ss premium  increased above the index-linked rate. So its offer was to work out 
what the premium would have been  if it had increased alongside the index and refund the 
difference to Mr and Mrs S whenever  this happened.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Avivas proposed  offer was a fair way 
to resolve things.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. Given the price they obtained for a new policy they still considered 
they had been overcharged  for many  years and want Aviva to pay them the difference.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
While the complaint was awaiting  an ombudsmans review, Aviva got in touch to say that the 
premiums for 2014 and 2015 hadnt been  included in its proposed offer.  It apologised for the 
oversight and provided its calculation to show that 2014 and 2015  had now been included.  
Avivas updated offer came to £222.17 for the extra Mr and Mrs S had paid, and £125.52  for 
Mr and Mrs S being out of pocket of that money.  
The revised total came to £347.69. Alongside the £100 additional compensation, Avivas 
total offer to Mr and Mrs S comes to £447.69.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Aviva treated Mr and Mrs S fairly throughout the time they held 
their insurance policy.
And here, as Aviva has made  an offer, I need  to consider whether that is enough to put right 
what might  have gone wrong.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, so Id like to explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy was around  £400  (excluding IPT) in 1999. By 2015 the insurance cost 
around £950 (excluding IPT) for the year. As Mr and Mrs Ss policy did increase in cost over 
the years   Ive looked to see what happened.
Ref: DRN79398573Mr and Mrs Ss policy automatically renewed  each  year. With automatic renewals there  is a 
chance that if a consumer  doesnt  engage  with the renewal process or shop around, they 
can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer.  
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  engage over the years, but Aviva says the cost increased due to the 
type of policy Mr and Mrs S held and not because they werent  engaging with the renewals  
each year.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy was a block policy. This meant Aviva grouped  together a number of 
policy holders (in this case  those who took out insurance through  Bank A) and created an 
insurance policy that it provided  to these customers.  
As the policy was created in a block it provided  all the consumers the same level of cover. 
The consumer, if they wanted to take out insurance,  had two options. They could  take 
buildings and contents insurance that also included accidental damage cover - amongst 
other things.  Or they could take buildings insurance  with accidental damage cover  (so no 
contents cover). The policy  Mr and Mrs S took out was for buildings  and contents  insurance 
that also included  accidental damage  cover  - the Homecover Plus policy.  
With either of the policies  on offer,  they couldnt be amended. So, for example, the 
accidental damage  cover couldnt be removed,  or the limits  and excesses couldnt be 
changed by consumers. Providing cover this way meant that Aviva didnt have to manually 
underwrite each individual policy  instead,  the policyholders properties were  automatically  
rated using  a buildings sum insured rate and location. The buildings  sum insured rate was 
index-linked.
Home insurance that is index-linked means  that the sums insured and some  of the policy  
limits are adjusted each year to make sure they remain sufficient to cover  the possible costs  
of a claim  such as the full cost of rebuilding a consumers property. 
There are various factors taken into account with the cost of rebuilding  a property,  such as 
the increasing cost of building materials, or cost of labour. The Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors (RICS) calculates the House Rebuilding Cost Index which  Aviva  used to gauge 
what a consumers property is likely  to cost to be rebuilt. In essence  the sums  insured are 
linked to that index  giving the term index-linked.
 
So this means  the renewal cost of an index-linked policy can also be increased to pay for the 
increased level of cover.  If it is deemed that the sum insured needs to go up to reflect  the 
amount it will cost for a property to be rebuilt  then it follows  that the premium  will go up. 
The premium is unlikely  to ever stay static.  
With Mr and Mrs Ss policy, this is what happened. It increased in most years as the sums  
insured increased  each  year. Aviva  says the increases applied  were in line with the RICSs 
House Rebuilding Cost Index. 
Ref: DRN79398574But Aviva says there were  times when the premium increased above the index-linked  rate 
and because of this it offered to refund the overpayments in any years where this happened.  
Given the type of policy  Mr and Mrs S had, this seems fair.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S obtained  alternative  insurance for a lot less. Given the 
difference in cost I can see why Mr and Mrs S are unhappy. But insurance practices  have 
moved on over the years. 
Policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with insurers  aiming to 
keep the consumer and recoup the discount  over the following years.  Consumers can also 
choose from various levels of cover   so buildings and contents with or without accidental 
damage, and consumers  can also choose  what limits and excesses they wish to have. But 
the policy they took out with Bank A was very comprehensive and had a comparatively high 
level of cover.
These things combined, mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly  different  in price. 
More recently, online  practices and comparison  websites have meant  ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers  can now manage  their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers   with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer presents  and again 
the cost between insurers can be different based  on that perceived risk.
So while Mr and Mrs S have obtained a policy for far less now,  for the reasons explained 
above, I dont  think it would be fair to compare the cost of that recent  policy with the policy 
taken and held for many  years with Aviva.
I also am mindful that Aviva had to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly in respect of the policy  they 
held. And Mr and Mrs S have said they dont think they were  treated fairly over the years,  
paying more for their insurance than the cost of what is available  now.  Mr and Mrs S think  
there should have  been  more engagement by Aviva over the years,  and had there been, 
they consider  they wouldnt have paid so much  towards their home insurance.
Aviva, throughout the duration Mr and Mrs S held their policy, wasnt  obligated to either 
automatically switch Mr and Mrs S to another  policy  or tell them  about  any alternative 
products it offered. 
There were new rules  introduced by the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority,  in 2017 
that said that insurers should, in the renewal invitation, encourage their customers  to shop 
around if theyve had their policy for a number of years. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly that they werent treated fairly. And I do 
understand why they feel this way. Businesses  treating their customers  fairly  is an 
overarching principle that they must have in mind in all dealings with consumers. 
But in this case, I think Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs S fairly. It has treated them the same 
as any other  policyholder with the same  policy. And in its role as an insurer, I dont think it 
would be fair to say Aviva  should need to make sure someone (or all of its policyholders) has 
the cheapest policy  available.  
Ref: DRN79398575Put simply, Mr and Mrs S took out Avivas policy. It didnt have to make  sure Mr and Mrs S 
got the best deal year on year.  Aviva  needed  to make sure it treated them fairly in respect  
of the policy  they held and not increase the costs of that policy unfairly.  
From what  Ive seen the increases in Mr and Mrs Ss premiums were  in accordance with the 
type of policy they had  an index-linked  policy that also had set, comprehensive cover in 
place. There were  risk related reasons for the increases and the increases werent simply 
because Mr and Mrs S werent engaging with their renewal.
And where  there were increases beyond the index-linked increase, Aviva  has offered to 
refund those overpayments  which  seems  fair.
I would like to add that I have seen Avivas  updated calculation, and Im satisfied that its 
refund of any overpayments where there  were  increases beyond  the index-linked increase 
rate, is now correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mr and Mrs Ss home insurance  policy is fair.
I direct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited, should Mr and Mrs S accept the decision, to update  the 
compensation amount to reflect the additional  time Mr and Mrs S have been out of pocket.
Aviva Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused  to 
Mr and Mrs S is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7939857