K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about Covea Insurance plc (Covea) decision to decline his income 
protection claim and cancel his policy. 
background
On 6 June 2018, Mr K phoned Covea to make a claim on his income protection policy. He 
told Covea that he hadnt worked  since 2 February 2018 when he was given a sick 
certificate. However, Mr Ks main employer, B, told Covea that his last date of work was 5 
June 2018.
Mr K has explained to our service  that, at the time, he had two employers. His main 
employment was with B but he also worked  weekends at S. After he was given a sick 
certificate, he stopped  working at S but continued  to work for B.
Covea thought Mr K had deliberately given  it inaccurate information during the phone call on 
6 June. So it terminated the claim and cancelled the policy. Unhappy  with this, Mr K brought  
a complaint to this service. 
Mr K accepts that he told Covea that he wasnt working for both employers since  2 February  
2018. And says he later told Covea that, as the sick certificate issued in February is 
applicable to both his employers, legally  he wasnt  working for B from February to June. He 
says he did this honestly, with no intention of fraud.  And Mr K says he wasnt trying  to make 
a claim from February and feels his claim should be covered from 5 June 2018 onwards, 
when he says B relieved  him of his employment.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought Coveas decision was fair and in line with 
the terms of the policy. So he didnt uphold  his complaint. And, as the information given to 
Covea by Mr K in the phone call on 6 June was incorrect, our investigator thought that 
Covea was allowed  to cancel the insurance  as stated in the terms of the policy.
Mr K disagrees and so this matter has now been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr K that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. I think the investigator  explained  matters  
clearly and so theres not much I feel I can usefully add. I would just make  the following  
points.
The policy says:
Ref: DRN76440022We will cancel  a policy and not pay a claim where we find out that someone has 
deliberately withheld  information from us or deliberately or recklessly  provided us 
with inaccurate information.
For Covea to terminate  the claim and cancel the policy under this term, it needs  to show that 
the policy holder  has either withheld some information from Covea or given it inaccurate 
information. 
Mr K has given  an explanation for why he gave Covea the incorrect information and he feels  
he corrected this by telling  them what had happened  in the end. 
But the issue Ive considered is whether it was reasonable for Covea to decline Mr Ks claim 
and cancel the policy based  on its belief  that hed given it inaccurate information.  In 
considering this, Ive listened to some of the calls Mr K had with Covea and Ive included an 
extract from the call on 6 June below which I think is relevant to this matter.
Agent: I just wanted to confirm with yourself  that first sick note that you were issued 
confirmed you may have been fit for work on like a reduced, like a phased  
basis type thing. Were you working  during that period then?  This is from 2 
February to 30 April.
Mr K: 2 February to 30 April?
Agent: Yeah, that first sick note says you actually may have been  fit for work on 
amended duties, but it didnt say that you were unfit for work for that period.
Mr K: Ah right, um, what happened is, um, for my main  job I wasnt working.  Um, 
but I had this uh, cardiac  problems in my part time job. So physically though I 
havent been working there  since I got that sick note. So thats the situation 
there.
Agent: So you were carrying on your job in B but not your weekend job or the other 
way round?
Mr K: Um the other  way around. Its both now basically. 
Agent: I understand its both now [emphasised the word now]. But for that first period 
there, so from the 2 February until the 30 April,  that first sick note that says 
you may be fit for work.  So, during that period, you werent  doing your full 
time job with B but you were doing your weekend job still. 
Mr K: No, no, I was doing  no work  with B or my weekend job. Basically, they,  at the 
end of the day, the doctor said yeah whats the situation here. I told her Ive 
got angina pain so she was like its better, its up to you what  you want to do, 
Ill leave at your discretion. [discusses  the pain and treatment he says he had 
the week before].
Agent: Oh right,  ok. So you havent  done any work  since 2 February?
Mr K: Um no. Would that make  a difference or something? Whats the situation 
really from your point  of view.
Agent: The policy that you have  is because youre wholly unfit for work.
Mr K: Yeah, definitely
Agent: Ok, so have you done any work since the 2 February?
Mr K: No I have  not.
Agent: Ok, not in your employed  job or in your self-employed  job.
Mr K: None whatsoever.

Ref: DRN76440023Mr K: With B, whats  happened is, obviously, the first sick note I neglected  to 
forward it to them so, from what I remember now, um, theyve obviously said 
you cant come  back  to work  while youre  off sick. So there  is some  
background to it but theyve got the second sick note.  So, for there insurance 
purposes I cant be on there in the premises. So there might  be some issues 
there but, from their point of view, theyve  done the right thingSo  I thought 
Id be blatantly honest  with you thats what I was told, thats  exactly what Ive 
done.
Agent: Ok, Im just going  to be asking  them  the day you last physically worked.  
Obviously as you say you havent worked  since 2 February  so weve  
obviously got that sick note so the fact they dont  hold it, that wont  
necessarily cause a problem. Ill just ask them  when  you stopped  working.
From this, I think  its clear that Mr K gave Covea information which  wasnt  accurate. And he 
did this on a number  of occasions  during the call when the agent was trying to clarify his last 
date of working. Whilst Mr K says his intention behind this was honest, he also accepts he 
knowingly gave Covea  the wrong  information.  Further, I think it was made clear to him that 
the accuracy of this information was important  and he was given a number of opportunities 
to clarify this with the agent.  
So, having  listened to the calls and taken into account that Mr K continued to work for B after 
2 February 2018,  I think its clear  that he gave inaccurate information to Covea and that this 
was done deliberately. In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable that Covea 
terminated Mr Ks claim and cancelled the policy under the terms of the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7644002