K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  a Premier packaged bank 
account to him in 2005. 
background
Mr T was also sold a Gold packaged  bank account  sometime before September 2001 and a 
Platinum account  in December 2001.  But Lloyds accepted that it mis-sold  those accounts 
and put things in the way that wed normally tell it to if we were to agree those accounts were 
mis-sold. So weve not looked into those  sales. 
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint and didnt think Lloyds had mis-sold the Premier 
account. Mr T disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  Lloyds      
mis-sold the Premier account.  Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr T was given a clear choice in taking this account. 
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. And in working out what  I think  is most likely  to have 
happened, I have to think about everything Ive been  told together  with everything else Ive 
been provided with and see how this fits with what I do know. In other words, what  l have to 
do, in this case, is decide what I think is most likely  to have happened having  weighed up 
what Mr T and Lloyds  have been able to provide me with.  
Its common knowledge that free accounts are widely available in the United Kingdom. But 
Mr T says he was led to believe that the account  fee was for administering  the account and 
that the benefits were free. Ive carefully  thought  about what Mr Ts said.  
The first thing for me to say is that the monthly  fee for the Premier account  was for some of 
the current account services Mr T was receiving  such  as preferential overdraft rates, 
access to a Premier relationship manager  and a Premier debit card.  These are services Mr T 
wouldnt have been able to have on a free account. And it wouldnt have been incorrect  to 
say that, at least part, of Mr Ts monthly account  fee was going  towards  the administration  of 
his Premier account.   
Im also mindful that he contacted a number  of the benefit providers  during  the period of time 
he had his Premier account  some of which  changed over this time. In my view, Mr T would 
only have been  able to do this for the extended  period that he did by consulting the Welcome 
Pack for the account. 
The Welcome Pack explained that the monthly  fee was for the Premier  package as a whole 
and not just the administration of the account.  As Mr Ts actions in using the benefits 
suggest that he mustve  have consulted the Welcome Pack and Mr T didnt query what he 
Ref: DRN71547312says he was told at the time, his actions are inconsistent with a customer who upgraded 
solely because they were misled in the way Mr T says he was. 
Overall and having thought about  everything, I think Mr T was given a clear  choice in taking 
out the Premier  account  and that he chose to take it as he, at the time, thought that the 
benefits included  might prove useful to have.
Lloyds says it recommended the Premier  account to Mr T. So Lloyds had to make  a fair 
recommendation, by taking adequate  steps to ensure it was a reasonable fit for Mr Ts 
circumstances. Having  thought about  Mr Ts circumstances and his actions, I think that the 
account was a reasonable fit for him. Mr Ts use of the mobile phone  insurance  and 
breakdown cover and the travel insurance included on the Premier account suggests he had 
a want and need for this cover. 
Mr T also had an overdraft with an overdraft limit of £5000  and he paid substantially less 
interest when he used his overdraft  because he had the Premier account. Indeed if he used 
his overdraft anywhere its limit the interest  saving Mr T wouldve made wouldve far 
exceeded the monthly fee for the account. 
Crucially, as this is the case, I think that Lloyds  recommendation of the Premier account is 
fair even  though Mr Ts wife was also paying  packaged account  fees on separate  Premier  
account. Id also point out that Welcome Pack, which Ive already concluded Mr T more likely 
than not read, also explained that it was possible  to have the Premier package  and joint 
access to the benefits  on a joint account.    
Im open  to the possibility that Mr T may not have been told about all of the significant  
features and exclusions on all of the benefits when the account was initially  sold to him. But I 
havent seen anything in his circumstances  to say that he wouldve been  significantly  
affected by any of them. So I dont think that clearer information wouldve  stopped  him from 
taking the account in the first place.
Mr T may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted  from the account as 
much as hed hoped and expected to. And given what he may have read or heard  about 
packaged bank  accounts in general  and Lloyds has upheld the complaint about his Gold and 
Platinum accounts,  I can to some extent  understand why he might now think  this account 
was mis-sold. But I think that Mr T chose to accept what, on the face of things, appears to 
have been a reasonable recommendation made by Lloyds  even allowing for any possible  
duplication with his wifes account. So having thought  about  the information  provided and 
listened to everything  Mr Ts said, I dont  think that the Premier account was mis-sold  to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7154731