K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he financed through 1st Stop Car Finance Ltd (1st Stop)  was 
faulty at the point of supply.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used car in September 2017. The car was about eight years  old and 
had completed over 65,000 miles.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase agreement 
with 1st Stop.
But he had problems  with the car. On the day he took delivery he had to return  to the 
dealership because it was losing power. The problem eventually  resolved itself but the next 
month Mr B had to return to the dealership again. Some  further  faults were  identified 
including a fault with the Adblue injector.
The dealership told him they could repair the Adblue system or remove  it to stop the problem 
reoccurring. Mr B chose  to have it removed and the car worked  until February 2018 when he 
experienced further problems. The car was repaired  in May. The turbo was replaced; there 
were metal filings in the oil; the diesel particulate  filter (DPF)  wouldnt regenerate and the 
garage suspected  that the timing  belt was stretched. Mr B was unable to claim on his 
warranty as the dealership had closed so he raised  a complaint with 1st Stop as he said 
there were clearly faults  with the car when he took receipt of it.
They asked him to arrange  an inspection  by an independent engineer  and Mr B did that. The 
car had, by this time, completed about  75,000 miles and the engineer  said:
the DPF was blocked  and wouldnt regenerate 
the failed DPF and subsequent oil dilution had caused damage to the engine
the removal of the Adblue system  could  clearly have a potential  effect  on DPF 
function as Adblue systems are fitted to assist the DPF filter in regenerating and 
clearing carbon deposits
but if the DPF filter hadnt been previously replaced it may have been  reaching the 
end of its life anyway as they usually last for between 70 and 90,000 miles
Mr B obtained a quote from the main dealership to repair the issues. They confirmed  that a 
new DPF filter was required along  with a new timing belt and an oil and filter change.
So Mr B brought  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  took a look at the 
evidence. She talked to the manufacturers  dealership who confirmed that under no 
circumstances would  they recommend the Adblue  system was removed. She thought  that, 
given the timeframes involved, it was most  likely there was an issue with the Adblue system  
when Mr B took receipt of the car and the removal of the system had had an adverse effect 
on the vehicle.  The repair that the dealership  had carried out had therefore  proved 
inadequate and she thought Mr B should  be allowed to reject  the car on this ground  and also 
on the basis that the car had not proven durable.  She thought 1st Stop should refund the 
repair costs Mr B had paid and should  pay him £250  compensation for the inconvenience  
hed been caused. She said they should  take the car back  and cancel his finance agreement  
with nothing more  to pay.
But 1st Stop disagreed. They said that the independent engineer  had explained that the car 
wouldnt have been able to cover the additional  9,400 miles it had, if the removal of the 
Ref: DRN79302182Adblue system had proven a problem. They explained that, whilst the manufacturers 
dealership had said it was wrong to remove the Adblue system, theyd not seen the car and 
could therefore  not have  considered whether it was the correct course of action for this 
vehicle. They said that they had repaired the car in October when a problem had been  
raised and they thought this repair had been successful. They  didnt accept that the removal  
of the Adblue  system had caused  further  problems and they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint 1st Stop but Im persuaded that, its most likely, the issues Mr B 
complains of have been  caused  by an unsatisfactory repair  and I therefore  think  he should 
be allowed to reject the vehicle. Please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and if it wasnt  I would think  it fair and 
reasonable to ask 1st Stop to put this right. 
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
The car was returned to the dealership only a month after it was supplied and I think its 
most likely that the blocked Adblue  injector was therefore faulty  at the inception  of the 
finance deal. I say that because the car had been  in Mr Bs possession for only a short 
period of time and hed already been back to the dealer  once with what  could conceivably  be 
a related issue.
So I dont  think the car was of satisfactory  quality.  But as Mr Bs short  term right to reject the 
car in the first 14 days  had passed,  1st Stop were entitled to repair  the car.
was the repair successful?
The car has suffered  further issues since that repair. Mr B says these  were  first noted in 
February but because  of disputes about  warranty  responsibility  they werent brought to 
1st Stops attention until April.
Im persuaded that its most likely  Mr B was seeking  to have issues  addressed earlier  than 
April. I say that because  there are unusual circumstances in this case. The dealership Mr B 
obtained the car from, and whom he had his warranty with, had closed down. Mr B has 
provided a reasonable explanation  for the delay in getting the vehicle fixed. Hes said it was 
due to some  confusion about who was responsible  since  the dealership had closed.  I dont 
think it would  be fair to hold Mr B responsible  for this confusion.
Ref: DRN79302183Ive thought about the impact the dealerships removal of the Adblue  system has had. Its not 
disputed that the presence of the Adblue  system reduces the build-up  of carbon deposits. It 
follows that the DPF filter will have more  to do in the absence  of the Adblue system and the 
independent engineer has explained  that its removal could have an effect on the 
regeneration of the DPF. Indeed the manufacturers dealership  has said the systems 
removal is not recommended under any circumstances.
So Ive considered whether the dealership were right to provide Mr B with an option to have 
the Adblue system  removed and I dont think they were because:
the cars  DPF was approaching the end of its useful life (between 70 and 90,000 
miles) and it seems  reasonable to suggest its life will have been reduced by 
removing the Adblue  system
the manufacturers main dealer suggests  its an inadvisable course of action in any 
circumstances
So I think its likely the repair that was attempted by 1st Stop was ineffective, and perhaps ill 
advised, and I therefore think its fair to allow Mr B to reject the vehicle.
Satisfactory quality also means we should  consider whether the car has been  durable. A 
reasonable person wouldnt expect a car and every component  to last forever. But theres a 
reasonable expectation that the components  of a car function without any significant  issue  or 
problem for a reasonable period of time. And I think thats not been the case here.
Whilst I accept  the car had completed 65,000 miles at the start of the arrangement  and was 
eight years old, I dont think a reasonable person would consider  failures  to the turbo, timing 
chain, Adblue system  and DPF filter were  acceptable in the first six or seven  months of a 
cars ownership. So I think,  even if Im wrong that Mr B should be able to reject the car 
because the repair was unsuccessful,  he should  be allowed to reject  the car, as legislation  
demands, because  it was not suitably durable.
what redress is appropriate?
Its clear Mr B has suffered  some inconvenience  here. Hes had regular garage visits and 
been frustrated  with the lack of positive progress with his complaint. I think the adjudicators  
suggested award of £250 is reasonable in the circumstances.
Hes also had to pay for an independent inspection  to prove  fault and as Ive found in his 
favour I think  its fair for 1st Stop to refund  the cost of this if Mr B provides them with a copy  
of the invoice.
Mr B stopped paying his instalments when he began to have problems so Im not 
considering refunding any of his finance  payments  as its clear  hes had reasonable use of 
the car in the preceding  months  he completed  almost 10,000  miles.
Ref: DRN79302184my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and ask 1st Stop Car Finance Ltd 
to:
allow Mr B to reject his car and terminate his agreement at no further cost
collect the car at no further cost to Mr B
refund  Mr Bs deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the point of 
payment to the point of settlement
pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
refund  the cost of the independent inspection when Mr B provides a copy of the 
invoice. Add 8% simple  interest per annum from the point Mr B paid this to the point 
of settlement
refund  the turbo repair cost of £1,150 and add 8% simple  interest per annum from 
the point of payment to the point of settlement
remove any adverse credit records made to Mr Bs credit file in relation to this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7930218