K821x#15complaint
Miss L says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two loans Satsuma  provided to Miss L between  September  2016  and 
June 2018. Miss Ls borrowing history  is set out on the table below as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 19/09/2016 13/01/2017 13 weeks £410.00 *£180.52
2 11/06/2018 outstanding 12 months £500.00 £83.00
*The first loan repayment is based  on four weekly repayments at £45.13.
Miss L is represented by a third party and for ease I shall refer to him as Mr L throughout this 
decision.
Mr L has told us Miss L had a medical  condition which  made it difficult  for her to hold a job 
and as a result she had no income.  He said he didnt understand how Satsuma was able to 
verify any income or approve the loans it gave to her. Mr L explained that Miss Ls outgoings 
were paid by her family who contacted  Satsuma  when they found out about Miss Ls 
borrowing. He said they explained to Satsuma  Miss Ls particular circumstances and 
requested that no further loans were made. Despite this request not to provide any further  
loans, loan 2 was provided to Miss L.
In its final response Satsuma told Miss L that it had requested health forms to be completed 
to assist in understanding Miss Ls situation and were only able to use the information  it had 
evidence for. It said it had used a wide range  of data sources to ensure it was using  the most 
accurate and up to date information about Miss Ls existing credit  commitments,  living 
expenses and income. It said the checks  it carried  out didnt demonstrate the loans issued 
were unaffordable or unsustainable at the time of the applications.  It said it would not uphold  
Miss Ls complaint.
Satsuma also said that in relation to Miss Ls concern that Satsuma had been  asked  not to 
provide further  loans,  it said it had investigated the situation and identified that a call was 
made on 13 January  2017 in which Miss Ls representative had asked for her not to be 
provided with any further loans.  It said the operator confirmed that the credit bureaus should 
be contacted who could help with this aspect. And further it said that as it was not made 
aware of Miss Ls circumstances at the time it was unable to take the appropriate action to 
prevent further  lending  being accepted on its system.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ls complaint about  loan 2. Based on the information  Satsuma  
had about Miss Ls circumstances she said this loan shouldnt have been given and to put 
things right she suggested that Satsuma should  write off loan 2 in its entirety.  Satsuma didnt 
respond and as the parties have not reached agreement the complaint was passed  to me for 
a final decision.
Ref: DRN70130272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss L could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. Ive decided  to uphold  Miss Ls 
complaint about  loan 2. I will explain why.
When Satsuma gave  Miss L loan 1, it did various checks. As it was early  in the lending 
relationship, I think the checks  were  proportionate and based on what Miss L told Satsuma 
Ref: DRN70130273about her income  and her expenditure, the loan would have appeared affordable,  so I cant 
say it was unfair for it to have provided loan 1.
There was a gap between the time Miss L repaid  loan 1 and when she took out loan 2 of 
over one year. This would  usually be enough for me to say that the checks Satsuma did for 
loan 2 were also proportionate.  But I have  considered the particular circumstances of this 
case and after taking  everything into account, I dont  think Satsuma should have given loan 
2. 
Mr L has explained to us that Miss L was suffering from a medical  condition  which  prevented 
her from working - and as a result she had no income which could be verified and no way of 
repaying her debt. He also told us that he called Satsuma in January 2017 to repay Miss Ls 
loan 1 and requested it not to give any further  amounts to Miss L due to her circumstances. I 
have thought carefully about what Mr L has said. 
In particular, I note in its final response to Miss L, Satsuma referred  to the call Miss Ls 
representative made on 13 January 2017 and asked for Miss L not to be provided with any 
further loans.  Given  what weve  been  told by Mr L it seems likely that the call with Satsuma 
ended with Mr L expecting that Satsuma would  not lend to Miss L again. Given  what  Mr L 
likely told Satsuma, this ought to have been  enough  to have at least  put Satsuma on notice 
that no further loans should have been  made to Miss L. I think  Satsuma were likely to have 
been alerted to Miss Ls difficulties when  her representative made the call. In addition, Mr Ls 
account of events has been  consistent  and the final response letter  from Satsuma supports 
what he has told us, so I accept what he has said. 
In the circumstances of this case Satsuma shouldnt have  given Miss L loan 2.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 2 and Satsuma should  put things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
Satsuma shouldnt have  given Miss L loan 2. 
I understand there is a balance outstanding on this loan. If Satsuma has sold the outstanding 
debt it should  buy this back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not 
able to buy the debts back, then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the 
results outlined below.
A)Satsuma should remove  all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, 
and treat any repayments made  by Miss L as though  they had been repayments  of 
the principal on loan 2. If this results in Miss L having made overpayments then 
Satsuma should refund  these overpayments with 8% simple  interest  calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint  is settled.
B)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then Satsuma  should write off this balance in 
its entirety and end Miss Ls liability for loan 2 so she makes no further payment. If 
there is a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Miss L.
C)Satsuma shouldnt  have given loan 2 to Miss L. As it did any information recorded  is 
adverse, so Satsuma  should remove this loan entirely from the credit file. 
Ref: DRN70130274 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Miss L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ls complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7013027