K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains on behalf  of herself  and the late Mr H that Santander UK Plc mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out to protect a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
Santanders records show Mrs H and the late Mr Hs mortgage started in 1998, but it wasnt  
until 2001 that the late Mr H took out PPI in his sole name to protect  their mortgage payment 
in the event of accident and sickness (not unemployment.) Mrs H disputes this  she says 
PPI must have started  when the mortgage was originally taken out in 1998.  I will address 
this below.
The policy was a regular  premium policy; it cost around £17 a month; and it provided a 
monthly benefit of more  than £500 for up to 12 months.
The policy was cancelled in 2003  and the mortgage  ended in 2005.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought the evidence  pointed to 
the policy being taken out in 2001. And there was nothing to indicate  that it was likely the 
late Mr H didnt agree to take out the policy or that it was mis-sold.
They also said that because of the dates  Mrs H and the late Mr Hs mortgage was active,  
Santander didnt  have to pay back any of the commission or profit share they paid as part of 
their premiums.
Because Mrs H disagrees,  the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H  I know this isnt the answer shed hoped for. But for the 
reasons Ill set out below, I dont uphold this complaint.
Santander says that the late Mr H took out PPI in 2001 and its provided a copy  of a letter  
dated November  2001 addressed to the late Mr H. The letter  said the policy  had now started  
and gave the dates and amounts of the first and subsequent direct  debit payments. Ive also 
seen screenshots  from Santanders internal records, which  shows  a policy start date in 
2001. 
I can see that Mrs H is adamant the policy began in 1998 when the mortgage started  she 
asks why would they have  taken  it out later on? But theres no evidence to support PPI being 
taken out in 1998. So based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the late Mr H took out PPI in 
2001.
Ref: DRN79990432In answer to Mrs Hs question about  taking out PPI after the mortgage started  this isnt as 
unusual as Mrs H believes.  Circumstances and needs change over time  indeed I can see 
that Mrs H told us that the late Mr H changed  jobs around 2000  / 2001. So perhaps  it was 
this event, which prompted him to seek cover at this time.
In any event Id add here that, even if I was to conclude that PPI was taken out in 1998 
(although I am not), for the reasons  Ill set out  later  on, I dont think it would make any 
difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Santander says this was an advised  sale. And Ive no reason to think  differently. So this 
means Santander had to ensure PPI was right or suitable for the late Mr H. And it also had 
to give him enough  clear  and timely  information  about the recommended  cover so he could 
decide whether  to go ahead or not. Ive kept this in mind in deciding  this complaint.
did Santander make  it clear PPI was optional?
Because things  happened  quite some time ago  and the mortgage account has been 
closed for more than 10 years  Santander  hasnt  been able to provide any paperwork from 
the time.  And this isnt surprising   businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely.
But given the evidence suggests that the late Mr H took out PPI a few years after the 
mortgage was taken out, he cant have  reasonably  been under the impression he had to 
have PPI and that it was a condition of the lending. And given the circumstances, it seems 
likely hed have had to complete an application  form  including a direct debit mandate - to 
take the policy out. So I think its likely the late Mr H chose and agreed to take out PPI and 
did so without undue pressure.
the advice
Without any paperwork to show how Santander  conducted the advice it says it gave to the 
late Mr H, I accept its possible that it didnt  do all that it should have. But in light of the late 
Mr Hs circumstances at the time,  I dont  think it was wrong  for Santander to have  
recommended PPI  I think it was suitable  for him. For example:
he was eligible for the cover.
he was in good health at the time, so wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions on 
or limits to the cover   e.g. for existing medical  conditions.
he didnt have any sick pay or any other means  such as savings or other policies to 
fall back on (albeit  he was likely entitled  to statutory  sick and redundancy pay) in the 
event he found  himself unable to work. So I think he had a need for cover  and it 
wouldve proved  useful for him and Mrs H at what would likely be a difficult time.
the cost appears  to have been affordable. And because  it was a regular premium  
policy it couldve been cancelled at any time and without penalty if things changed.
I said above that even if the policy started  in 1998 as Mrs H says I didnt think it wouldve 
changed my mind. And I say this because, based on what  Mrs H has told us about  the late 
Mr Hs circumstances, they werent fundamentally different in 1998.  So given this and what  
Ive set out above, I think the policy wouldve been suitable for him at this time too.
the information   
Ref: DRN79990433I dont know what information the late Mr H got about the policy  or when. I think  he wouldve 
been given some information about it including some idea of the cost  I find it difficult to 
believe he wouldve gone  ahead without  knowing something about  the policy. But for the 
reasons why I think the policy  was right for him, I dont think  he wouldve likely changed his 
mind about  taking out PPI had Santander done  anything more - in my view there was 
nothing about  it that wouldve put him off accepting the recommendation.
other matters
I can see Mrs H disagrees  with the adjudicators finding about the non-disclose  of 
commission and profit share and how Santander doesnt have to pay back  anything  she and 
the late Mr H paid for the policy.
While I think the adjudicator has set out the position  clearly, for the sake  of completeness - In 
2017, following  a Supreme Court  judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),  issued  
some rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints  about  the non-disclosure of 
commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Santander has given  me information that shows Mrs H and the late Mr Hs mortgage  was 
taken out in 1998 and ended in 2005 - and Mrs H doesnt dispute this. So based on what  Ive 
said above, I dont  think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment,  or the rules  and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-
disclosure of commission apply here.
So Santander doesnt need to refund  any of the commission  Mrs H and the late Mr H paid 
for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H  on behalf 
of herself and the late Mr H - to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2019.
Ref: DRN79990434Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7999043