K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Skoda Finance, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Skoda Finance that 
he signed in October  2017. The car was about  four and a half years old and had been  driven  
for 58,326  miles. The car didnt have an MOT certificate so Mr C asked for it to be tested  
but it failed because of an issue with its brakes.  The brakes were repaired by the dealer and 
the car then passed the MOT test about a week later.  Mr C says that the car then had an oil 
leak so he called out a recovery service and the car was returned  to the dealer. The cars  
key fob then stopped working  properly  in December 2017 and the car was returned to the 
dealer in January 2018 and a system reset  was performed. But the issues continued and 
werent resolved  until July 2018 when the key fob was replaced. And in April 2019 the cars 
roof needed  to be re-sprayed.
Mr C had complained  to Skoda Finance in June 2018 and it sent him a final response letter 
in August 2018. It offered  to refund two monthly rentals totalling £362.14 to Mr C to 
recognise the distress, inconvenience and time without his car. Mr C didnt accept its offer 
and complained to this service. He says that he wants to reject  the car.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
Mr C had taken reasonable steps to make the dealer aware  of the faults and attempted to 
resolve matters as soon  as he became  aware of the faults. But she wasnt  persuaded that 
there was enough  evidence  for Mr C to be able to reject  the car. She recommended  that 
Skoda Finance should refund the £362.14 to Mr C that it had offered him (with interest) and 
that it should also pay him £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience that has 
been caused.
Skoda Finance has accepted the adjudicators recommendations  but Mr C asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has provided a schedule  of events and 
says that the amount of compensation that hes been offered wont  cover  the miles that hes 
had to drive to and from the dealer and his loss of work. And he says that hes been treated 
badly by the dealer and Skoda Finance. He also said in January 2019 that hes had to pay 
about £300 for the cars brake  calipers to be repaired.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skoda Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr C was about four 
and a half years old, had been driven  for 58,326  miles and had a price  of £8,960. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN73298562When the car was being supplied to Mr C it was identified that it didnt have an MOT 
certificate. The dealer  arranged  for the car to be tested   but it failed because of an issue 
with the brakes.  The dealer repaired the brakes and the car passed an MOT  re-test about  a 
week later.   
Mr C says that he returned the car to the dealer about two days later because of an oil-leak. 
The oil leak was repaired  by the dealer. He says that an issue  with the cars  keys started in 
December 2017.  The fault couldnt  be identified until July 2018 when Skoda Finance says 
the dealer found a fault and the engine  control unit was replaced and Mr C was provided 
with new keys for the car. Mr C says that the cars roof had to be re-sprayed in April 2018 
and that he had to pay about £300  for the brake calipers to be replaced in January 2019.  . 
Brakes are a wear and tear item and Im not persuaded that Skoda Finance is liable to 
reimburse Mr C for that payment.
Mr C has complained to Skoda Finance  and the cars manufacturer and hes not satisfied 
with the adjudicators recommendation  that in addition to the £362.14 offered to him by 
Skoda Finance he should receive  £250 compensation. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration about the issues that hes had with the car. It failed an 
MOT test and had an oil leak within a few days of being supplied  to him - but the dealer 
repaired the cars brakes and the oil leak. There was then an issue with the cars key fob 
which took several months  to diagnose and rectify.  But that issue has been resolved  (and 
the cars  roof has been resprayed) without  cost to Mr C. 
Those issues will have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr C  and he says that hes 
lost work  as a result. But Im not persuaded that the issues with the car are enough  to justify 
a rejection of it. Skoda  Finance has offered to refund two monthly payments totalling 
£362.14 to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  caused. And the 
adjudicator has recommended that he should receive a further £250. I consider that to be fair 
and reasonable compensation for the distress  and inconvenience that Mr C has been 
caused. And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for 
me to require Skoda Finance to pay him more compensation than the adjudicator  has 
recommended - or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part. And I order 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Skoda Finance, to:
1.Refund to Mr C the £362.14 that its offered to him.
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date that the 
offer was made to him in August 2018 to the date of settlement.
3.Pay £250 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Skoda Finance  to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 2 above. Skoda Finance must  give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if he asks it for one.
Ref: DRN73298563Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7329856