K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed  representative  
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G).
background
Mr and Mrs C say in their complaint form dated  1 June 2016:
We believe  the mortgage dated 11 April 2006 and related services was [sic] mis-sold to us 
by [L&G] . Full particulars and details of our complaint are detailed in the covering letter from 
[claims management company].
However there was no covering letter so I have  taken the details of the complaint from L&Gs  
final response letter dated 12 May 2016.  This sets out complaints that Mr and Mrs C 
shouldnt have been advised to remortgage, consolidate their car loan, or fund the purchase 
of a will package through the remortgage, and that L&G contacted  them to discuss  their 
mortgage.
L&G said Mr and Mrs Cs existing mortgage  was on a fixed interest rate of 6.49%. £18,000 
was arranged on capital  repayment and £18,000 on interest-only. Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
switch to repayment because their endowment  policies were  unlikely to provide sufficient 
money on maturity to repay the mortgage.  In addition to their mortgage they had a car loan 
on which they were making monthly  repayments of £141.
Mr and Mrs C told the adviser it was more important  to them to keep their payments low in 
the early years rather than knowing the exact  amount  of their monthly payments each 
month. The adviser recommended they remortgage  to another lender offering an interest 
rate which was 0.06% below the Bank  of England  base rate, for two years.
L&G believed this mortgage was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C because they wanted to keep 
their repayments low and tracker deals usually offered the lowest rates available.
L&G said Mr and Mrs C had suggested that they should have  remained  with their existing 
lender. But theyd told the L&G adviser that theyd already spoken to the existing lender and 
had been told they were  tied into their existing mortgage until September 2006. Theyd 
therefore decided  to make alternative  arrangements.
L&G said that prior to the remortgage  Mr and Mrs C were paying £349 towards their 
mortgage and £141 in loan repayments each month,  giving  a total of £490. Following the 
remortgage they were  paying £492 per month. They had therefore  achieved their objective  
of converting to a full repayment basis without increasing their monthly spending.  It was for 
these reasons that L&G believed the advice to remortgage and consolidate the car loan was 
suitable for them.
Adding the car loan to the mortgage  cost £45.91 each month as opposed to the £141 
Mr and Mrs C were making in loan repayments.  Therefore if theyd kept this debt separate, 
their monthly spending would have increased by about £100  per month. L&G didnt believe 
this was acceptable to them.
L&G accepted it wasnt right to fund the cost of the will through the mortgage.  It offered to 
refund the mortgage interest Mr and Mrs C would pay over the term of the mortgage.  It also 
Ref: DRN75384382offered to pay interest on those payments at 8% simple, and £150 in recognition  of the 
inconvenience caused, making  a total of £230.92.
In relation to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint that L&G had contacted them  to discuss  their 
mortgage, L&G said they had filled in a questionnaire agreeing that firms  could contact them 
to do this. They were  under no obligation  to discuss their mortgage needs with L&G and 
could have declined  its offer to review their mortgage when it contacted them.
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy with L&Gs response  and brought  their complaint to this 
service. However our adjudicator didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said Mr and Mrs C had £18,000  on a repayment basis and £18,000 on an interest-only 
basis. The client review form confirmed they wanted a guarantee the mortgage would be 
repaid at the end of the term so wanted to switch to a repayment  mortgage. The adjudicator 
thought L&Gs advice was consistent  with what was important to Mr and Mrs C at the time,  
as potentially their endowment policy might not have  covered the outstanding interest-only 
element of their mortgage.
The adjudicator thought  Mr and Mrs C could have  approached their existing lender to 
discuss the options available to them directly  if they wanted options outside  the ones that 
L&G recommended.
The adjudicator also thought the advice to consolidate the car loan was suitable.  That loan 
had an interest rate of 10.3% - this meant the re-mortgaging rate of 4.40% was cheaper.  But 
the consolidated loan would be paid over a longer term and would accrue  more  interest  over 
the term of the mortgage.
The adjudicator was satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were fully aware of the implications of 
consolidating the car loan into the mortgage.  The mortgage suitability report highlighted the 
cost difference.  It said:
The overall cost of the proposed new borrowing of £47,100 (£4600 of which is to 
consolidate short term debt) would be £62,753.46.
The overall cost of borrowing £42,500 (i.e. with no debt consolidation) would be £56,833.39  
over the same term.
Having reviewed the mortgage suitability  report,  the adjudicator thought  the most important 
aspect was to have one manageable payment. He therefore thought the consolidation 
advice was suitable.
The adjudicator didnt think there  was anything wrong with L&Gs contacting  Mr and Mrs C to 
review their mortgage. If they werent  interested they could  have decided  not to proceed, 
however they did proceed.
The adjudicator thought  it would have been more  appropriate to pay the cost of the will 
package separately  rather than adding it to the mortgage incurring interest  which 
Mr and Mrs C wouldnt otherwise have  had to pay. L&G had recognised  this shouldnt have 
been done and had calculated and offered to refund the interest on this amount for the term 
of the mortgage.  The adjudicator thought this was a fair and reasonable offer.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN75384383They said it wasnt for them to approach  the existing lender. The purpose of employing L&G 
was to obtain professional advice. It wasnt for them to undertake their own enquiries. L&G 
should have recommended  Mr and Mrs C contact the existing  lender  to investigate 
restructuring their existing  mortgage.  This recommendation  would have avoided the 
substantial set up charges  incurred in the new mortgage.
They said L&G had failed to provide an illustration  of how much they would repay on the car 
loan if retained under  the original terms. By consolidating the debt over the longer term of 
the mortgage, L&G was able to display a monthly repayment which appeared attractive.
Mr and Mrs C also raised issues about the will and legal administration  fees which  I will deal 
with below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In an earlier  letter to L&G from Mr and Mrs Cs claims management company dated 
21 April 2016 they said that at the time of the advice  they were able to maintain their 
mortgage and loan repayments  and were in a relatively stable financial position. If they had 
required a new mortgage they should have stayed with their existing lender and chosen a 
suitable fixed rate from their available products or, if necessary,  restructure their current  
mortgage arrangements. If they had wanted  to raise capital this could have  been  obtained by 
seeking a further advance  which would  have proved quicker and cheaper.
They also said the unsecured loan could  have been kept separate from the mortgage as 
they were in a relatively stable financial position and had the capacity to continue making the 
monthly repayments.
I dont think the fact that Mr and Mrs C were  tied into their existing mortgage until 
September 2006 was a reason to make  alternative  arrangements. If an early repayment 
charge was applicable, it would be payable whoever supplied  the new product. 
It follows that there was no reason for Mr and Mrs C not to approach the existing lender. 
They say this would  have avoided the set up charges incurred in the new mortgage. But 
thats only true if the existing lender had a product which  was equally or more suitable.  
Mr and Mrs C have provided  no evidence  that they would  have  obtained the same or better 
terms from the existing lender or that it would have been willing  to restructure  the borrowing.
Calculating how much Mr and Mrs C would repay on the car loan if retained  under the 
original terms  was simply a matter of checking  the instalments  remaining to be paid over the 
term of that loan. There was no need  for L&G to provide an illustration. 
The mortgage suitability  report recorded  that Mr and Mrs C indicated  that they required a 
guarantee that the entire mortgage be repaid by the end of the term. The consolidation 
saved about £100 per month which helped to achieve the objective of converting  to a full 
repayment basis without  increasing their monthly spending. 
Therefore I dont consider the re-mortgage or consolidation were  unsuitable.
Ref: DRN75384384Mr and Mrs C say the fee for the will was excessive. But I dont think  I can hold L&G 
responsible for the fee. If Mr and Mrs C think they were overcharged, that would be a matter  
to take up with the third party who provided  the will.
Mr and Mrs C have also made  other  arguments about the referral  by L&G to a particular will-
writing company, most  notably that the two businesses had directors in common.  I dont find 
that this renders advice to take out a will inherently unsuitable or inappropriate. It seems  to 
me that Mr and Mrs C wouldve had the opportunity  to decline the arrangements  if they 
hadnt wished  to proceed. So I cant see any basis on which to require L&G to refund the fee 
for the will package,  as Mr and Mrs C have  requested.
I do however think its down to L&G that the will package  was paid for with the mortgage 
funds. L&G has already accepted that may not have  been suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. And I 
think its made a fair offer to resolve  that: by reimbursing them for the interest incurred  by 
adding the cost to the mortgage and paying them £150 compensation for any inconvenience 
caused.
Mr and Mrs C note that some of the costs in respect  of the legal work were charged by L&G 
rather than the solicitor. I dont find anything inherently  unreasonable in that: there are a 
number of administrative procedures which  neednt have  been carried  out by a solicitor. The 
total from the completion statement was £522.88, and £522 was the amount set out in 
section 8 of the keyfacts dated  7 March 2006.  The conveyancers letter of 29 March 2006  
indicates that this included  L&Gs legal and administration fee of £293.75.  
my final decision
L&G has already  made  an offer to pay £230.92  to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Legal & General Partnership Services  
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs C £230.92.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7538438