K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the settlement  offered  to him by CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) 
following his home  insurance claim for malicious damage to his front door.  
background
In April 2018 Mr E made a claim for malicious  damage under his home insurance policy after 
he discovered the front door at his rental property was damaged. CIS accepted the claim 
and Mr E provided it with an invoice  for work that was carried out to temporarily secure  the 
door. He then sent CIS an estimate hed obtained for a replacement  door.  After  reviewing it, 
CIS appointed its own door and glazing expert to validate the claim and provide  a report. 
The expert visited Mr Es property and completed  an assessment of the damage to the door,  
and the work  necessary to put Mr E back in the position he wouldve been  in before the loss.
The report  from CISs expert identified the damage  to the door that was consistent with 
malicious damage. It said the glazed  door panel  was damaged but that the other marking to 
the door and frame  was consistent  with wear and tear. It said the damage could be repaired 
by replacing just the infill panel on the top half of the door and cleaning  some marks off other 
areas of the UPVC.  CIS offered to cash settle Mr Es claim for £535.10 which  comprised the 
cost of replacing the panel (based on its experts  assessment  of the cost)  plus the cost of the 
temporary boarding  up less the policy excess of £100.
Mr E didnt think this was fair so he said he wouldnt accept the settlement. He said he 
couldnt leave  the property unsecured so he arranged to have the door and frame  replaced. 
He then complained to CIS. He said the door had been in a good condition before the 
incident had occurred. And he said only replacing  the panel  in the door wouldnt address the 
rest of the damage that had been  caused  to the frame and remainder of the door. He felt it 
would be reasonable for CIS to provide him with a settlement that was enough to replace  the 
whole door.  He also said there has been  some damage to the locking mechanism on the 
door that CIS hadnt  accounted for. Mr E provided CIS with a report from his own window 
and door installation expert.  
CIS looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. It said itd offered to 
settle his claim based on the damage found to be consistent with malicious  damage. It said 
the damage to the rest of the door (beyond  the damaged panel) wasnt a result of malicious 
damage. It said it would  reconsider his claim  if Mr E was able to provide evidence of the 
pre-incident condition of the door. But as things stood, it thought itd offered him settlement 
based on the damage caused by an insured event. 
Unhappy with the outcome of CISs investigation, Mr E complained  to this service. Our 
investigator considered  this complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He said that 
having looked at the evidence from both parties  he was persuaded it was more likely the rest 
of the damage  to the door was caused by wear and tear which  was excluded from cover  
under the policy.  He thought that CISs  offer of settlement was fair. With regard to Mr Es 
claim that the lock had been damaged but hadnt  been considered  by CIS as part of the 
claim, our investigator said that it didnt appear this had been  raised  with CIS. The 
investigator said hed raised it with CIS now but it didnt accept that the lock had been 
damaged in the incident. CIS said that whilst there  was evidence the lock was warped, there  
was no evidence this had been caused maliciously.
Ref: DRN73266222Mr E didnt agree. He said the locking mechanism  was damaged  by the insured event. And 
he reiterated that the condition of the door was fine before  the malicious damage occurred. 
Mr E also mentioned that just replacing  the door panel would mean the rest of the door 
wouldnt match the new door panel.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.   
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Es policy document and I can see that cover  is provided for buildings 
damaged maliciously.  And the terms permit  CIS to cash settle claims based on what it cost 
its suppliers to carry out a repair. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr E has a valid claim. The dispute now before me relates to how the 
claim was settled. CIS says it was settled fairly and in line with the policy terms but Mr E 
disagrees. He thinks there was also damage caused to the rest of the door and frame  
meaning he should be reimbursed for the cost of replacing the whole door. I have  to decide 
whether CIS has treated  Mr E fairly  in the way its settled his claim. Although  I appreciate it 
will come as disappointment  to Mr E, I have to say that I think  it has. Ill explain why. 
 
Its the responsibility of the policyholder to show that damage  claimed  for under  the policy 
has been caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy (fire, theft,  malicious 
damage etc.) If a policyholder can do so then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can 
successfully rely on one of the exclusions listed in the policy. Its the insurers responsibility 
to prove  the exclusion can be successfully applied.  
In relation to the damage allegedly sustained by the rest of the door and frame (thereby 
requiring, in Mr Es opinion, the whole door to be replaced) CIS is relying on the exclusion for 
wear and tear. The policy says that damage caused  by wear and tear is excluded from 
cover. CISs door and glazing  expert has provided a report  to say that only the damage  to 
the panel was caused maliciously. It said that the marking to the rest of the door was 
consistent with wear and tear. The report also says that the pre-incident condition  [of the 
door] is fairly  worn.  
The expert also took photographs of the door which were  reviewed  by CIS. CIS noted the 
general condition  of the door was poor. Notwithstanding Mr Es contrary view, I think the 
conclusion reached  by CIS based  on the photographs is a fair one. I can see that the door is 
very dirty but theres no evidence (aside  from the damaged panel) of vandalism to the rest of 
the door or frame. Part of the panel  at the bottom  has come away  and is cracked  but close 
inspection of the photographs indicates this damage  to be historic in nature and not the 
result of the insured event. 
Ive thought about the report Mr E provided  from his own installer. But I think the 
photographs are more persuasive  evidence  as to the condition  of the door.  And having 
reviewed them, I dont  think that CIS has unfairly settled Mr Es claim. The door was clearly  
capable of repair so CIS offered to cash settle  the claim  based on what itd cost its supplier 
to do so. CIS is only liable  for the repairing the malicious damage. The settlement it made is 
in line with the policy terms so I dont think CIS has treated Mr E unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN73266223I agree  with our investigator about  Mr Es claim regarding the locking mechanism. I accept 
his expert  says it was warped but in order to form part of the claim it must  be shown that the 
warping was a result  of the malicious damage.  And I dont think  the evidence would allow me 
to reasonably reach that conclusion. I say that because theres no evidence of damage  
around the lock. So I cant  fairly ask CIS to increase the settlement its paid to Mr E to include 
an amount for a damaged  lock. 
Mr E has said that replacing only the panel  would  have meant an unsightly  match  between  it 
and the rest of the door.  CIS says its liability only extends to repairing the damage caused by 
the insured event. As the repair was never carried  out it cant  be known now whether an 
acceptable match couldve  been  achieved. I cant fairly assume  that the panel wouldnt have 
been a match for the rest of the door without evidence that it was. Unfortunately for Mr E, as 
he decided to replace the door rather than repair it, that evidence  isnt available.  
On balance, I dont  think that CIS has settled Mr Es claim  unreasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7326622