K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Everyday Lending Limited  mis-sold him two personal accident  insurance policies. 
background
Mr J took out a personal accident insurance policy for £20,000 when he took out a loan with 
Everyday lending in early-2014. And he increased  his cover by £10,000  when he borrowed 
more money later that year.  He said he was in financial difficulties at the time, really needed 
the loan and was told taking the insurance  each  time would improve his chances of getting 
the loans. He also agreed to take out an Everyday Life policy each time.
Last year Mr J complained to Everyday Lending  about all the insurance  it had sold him in 
2014. Everyday  Lending upheld his complaint  about the Everyday Life policy and returned 
the premiums hed paid,  with interest. But it said the personal accident policies were suitable  
given what Mr J told it about his circumstances. And hed chosen to take them out after 
being provided with sufficient information about  the cost and benefits.  Mr J was unhappy  
with Everyday Lendings response  so asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigators didnt  think Everyday  Lending  had done anything wrong so didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr J disagreed, so the case  has come  to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think Everyday 
Lending mis-sold the policies  Ill explain why.
Everyday Lending  has confirmed that the policies were sold on an advised  basis,  which 
means it had to make sure the policies were suitable for Mr J  and I think  they probably 
were. Everyday Lending gathered information about Mr Js circumstances at each sale. At 
the first one it noted that Mr J had no existing personal accident cover but was interested  in 
taking some out. And at the second sale that he had £20,000  cover  in place, but was 
interested in increasing this by a further £10,000  which was within  his budget. Mr J signed 
the documents where this was recorded, presumably in agreement  of the information they 
contained.
Mr J says he was in financial  difficulty and thought  taking the insurance would increase his 
chances of getting the loans. But Ive seen little to support this assertion.  Everyday  Lending 
recorded his other debts  and these dont seem  to have been  considerable. And I think its 
relatively clear that the personal accident policy was optional  this is explained in the 
paperwork, which likely mirrored what the adviser told Mr J. I also note he chose not to take 
out the either life or critical  illness cover and he decided not to increase  his personal 
accident cover when he took out a further  loan the following year. So I think Mr J knew  he 
had a choice about whether to take out personal  accident cover.
Everyday Lending  also had to give Mr J clear information about the policies. It says the 
adviser wouldve  done so and also given  Mr J paperwork  which included the credit 
agreement (setting out what  the policy would cost) along with a key facts document (setting 
out the significant features and benefits and explaining Mr Js cancellation rights). Mr J 
hasnt disputed that he was given this information  or that he didnt understand what cover  
the policies provided or how much they cost. 
Ref: DRN75783862I appreciate Everyday Lending  upheld  Mr Js complaint  about  the sale of the Everyday Life 
policies. But that doesnt mean the personal accident policy sales should  also be upheld. 
The cover provided by the two policies are different and Everyday Lending  didnt actually 
explain why it upheld  Mr Js complaints about the Everyday Life policies (but it may be 
because he said he already had life cover  in place).
Overall, I dont  think the policies were  mis-sold  to Mr J.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7578386