K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC cancelled their overdraft  facility  and lost a 
payment they made for it. They  also complain that adverse  information  has been unfairly 
recorded on their credit  reference  files.
background
Mr and Mrs B say that Lloyds cancelled  their overdraft facility and asked them to repay the 
balance of just over £844. Mrs B says she called Lloyds to make a payment but it lost her 
money. She says the money left her account that she holds with a bank I will call B but 
Lloyds was unable  to trace her money.  Mr and Mrs B say they are not paying the money 
again and would like Lloyds to find it.
Lloyds upheld part of the complaint about  the service Mr and Mrs B received when they 
spoke to it. Lloyds  has apologised  and paid £150  compensation.  It says it didnt receive the 
money from B and Mr and Mrs B should  take that up with B. It also says it sent numerous  
letters online  to them about the overdraft and has correctly reported the account position  to 
the Credit Reference  Agencies (CRAs).
Mr and Mrs B had brought their complaint to us but our adjudicator  thought Lloyds had dealt 
fairly with it. The adjudicator thought  Lloyds  had written to Mr and Mrs B about the overdraft 
on numerous occasions and even if they didnt see the online letters  and messages then it 
was their responsibility to monitor the account. The adjudicator thought Lloyds hadnt  
received the payment and it was clear the fault was with B as it had refunded the money and 
accepted the mistake.  And that Lloyds  had a duty to accurately report the account position to 
the CRAs in circumstances where  Mr and Mrs B had decided not to repay the overdraft.
Mr and Mrs B dont  accept that view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
Im satisfied that having looked at Lloyds  records  Mr and Mrs B were registered  for online 
banking and so should have been aware Lloyds  was trying to make contact with them about 
the overdraft. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs B say they didnt  check  their online messages. But I 
dont think that matters as I think Mr and Mrs B ought to have been aware their account  was 
overdrawn and payments were not being  made into it. So I dont think Lloyds made a 
mistake in asking for the overdraft balance to be repaid.
I appreciate Mrs B tried to make a payment to Lloyds to clear  the balance but that payment 
didnt go through.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs concern in those circumstances but I can see 
that B refunded the money whilst it investigated what had happened  and later accepted  
responsibility for what had happened. So I dont think  Lloyds was responsible  for the mistake 
or held Mr and Mrs Bs money. Im satisfied the problem was with B and I cant  see why Mr 
and Mrs B would  think Lloyds was responsible when B refunded the money.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B owe Lloyds  the overdraft balance and must accept that as 
Mrs B tried to repay it. I can see no reason  why Mr and Mrs B can reasonably withhold 
paying back the money in circumstances where B has accepted it made  a mistake.  So I 
Ref: DRN78764772dont think Lloyds has made a mistake  or acted unfairly by reporting  the account  position to 
the CRAs.  Im satisfied  banks and building societies  have a duty to accurately report the 
position of their customers accounts  to the CRAs and that is what  has happened  here.
There is no question Lloyds didnt  deal with part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint as it should. 
But I think its acted fairly  by apologising and paying  what I think  is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation. I appreciate that isnt the main part of their complaint but I make  
that clear in any event.
Overall Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt fairly with this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7876477