K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains about the time it took Revolut Ltd to return funds when they closed his 
account. Hes also unhappy  that when the funds were returned,  certain  fees had been 
deducted.
Background
In December 2018 Revolut carried out a review on Mr Os account. As part of the review, 
Revolut asked Mr O questions about the purpose of the account, and the nature of several 
incoming transfers from a third-party  business account.
 
Mr O explained he purchased cars for family and friends abroad;  so Revolut asked him for 
supporting evidence as part of their review. Mr O provided Revolut with some documentation  
including shipping confirmation and a picture of a vehicle registration booklet. Revolut 
remained unsatisfied,  and therefore made the decision to indefinitely suspend  Mr Os 
account under their terms and conditions. They confirmed they would send the money  
remaining in the account back to the original source   the third-party  business  account.
The money was sent back  to the original account in January 2019. And when  the money 
was received it was less than the total amount. This was because  some transaction  fees had 
been deducted. Mr O is unhappy about  this  he doesnt think he should be liable to pay the 
transaction fees, and he thinks the transfer  took too long (around a month).
The investigator who looked at Mr Os complaint thought Revolut had acted reasonably 
when carrying out their review. And while he appreciated Mr O was unhappy  Revolut didnt 
think his supporting documentation was enough, the investigator explained we couldnt tell 
them what  documentation they should  accept. He also recognised the time it took for 
Revolut to send  the money  back,  and the fact certain fees had been deducted from the 
amount. But the investigator said he couldnt fairly ask Revolut to compensate  Mr O for the 
delays, because the money  wasnt  being  sent to Mr O. 
Mr O remained  unhappy and asked  for an ombudsman to review things.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained further below.
Ive considered Revoluts actions when  reviewing and subsequently  closing  Mr Os account. 
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Revolut were acting in line with 
these obligations  when reviewing, and subsequently  closing, Mr Os account.
Im aware Mr O is unhappy that Revolut didnt release the funds after Mr O sent them 
supporting evidence of the funds in question. I note Mr O says Revolut promised him theyd 
release the funds if they received this documentation. Ive read through  the online  chat 
transcript between Mr O and Revolut and I havent  seen anything  to confirm this. While Im 
aware Mr O provided Revolut with documents, Revolut didnt think  what  he'd sent satisfied 
their review.  So, Revolut decided to end their relationship with Mr O. I cant agree this was 
unreasonable as its up to Revolut who they allow to have accounts.
Ref: DRN75232402Ive reviewed whats happened in this case and I consider its fair and reasonable Revolut 
took the action  they did. And Im pleased to see they referred Mr O to the section  in their 
terms and conditions which allow them to end the relationship. So, while I appreciate  Mr O is 
disappointed with Revoluts decision, Im satisfied they acted reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.  I also agree with their decision to return the funds  in the 
account to the original  source.
It appears to have taken  just over a month from when Revolut made their decision to end the 
relationship, to when  the third-party  business  account received the funds back.  Ive 
considered what  Mr O said about  the timing of this  it was Christmas and hed recently got 
engaged, so it left him in a difficult position  to not have  his money. Ive thought carefully  
about Mr Os point  here, but I cant fairly  agree that the delay had a direct impact on Mr O. I 
say that because the funds were transferred to another  persons account   not Mr Os. 
Im aware Mr O says the money rightfully  belonged  to him but once the money  had been  
received, the third party didnt transfer  it to Mr O straight away. Mr O says the money was 
given to him in cash when  the third party travelled to England in February 2019. And that 
was to avoid any further issues with different banks.  I understand why Mr O wanted to avoid 
another bank  transfer, however I cant agree the original delay put Mr O in a difficult position 
if he was willing to wait another  month  before he received the money  in cash.
Ive also considered the transaction  fees which were deducted from the money.  However, as 
the money was transferred to another party  (not Mr O), then I cant agree that Mr O suffered 
this loss. And therefore, it would be unfair  to ask Revolut to compensate  him for this.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr O feels about whats  happened,  and I dont doubt it was 
a frustrating time. So, I realise  Mr O will be disappointed by my decision. But overall,  based  
on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant say Revolut  have acted unreasonably  and I cant  agree 
any delays, or deduction  of fees had a direct financial impact on Mr O. And thats because 
the source account didnt belong to him. 
So, Im not going  to ask Revolut to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7523240