K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc breached  its duty of confidentiality to him. Further 
his is unhappy  about the tone and nature of its communications when it contacted  his relative.
background 
Mr R was in arrears on his business loan. HSBC  tried to get in touch with him about  this, via 
a relative as it had done on previous occasions.  It also contacted a third party business, who 
had recently acted for Mr R in his dealings with HSBC. Mr R suggested this was 
inappropriate, as well as being  a breach  of data protection law and consequently illegal. 
Further, Mr R doubted that HSBC had tried to reach  him, before it did any of this. He told us 
when he complained HSBC didnt take him seriously. Moreover, he objected  to  the tone and 
the timing of the contact with his relative.
Mr R wanted HSBC  to apologise,  to say it was in the wrong  and to make a payment to 
recognise the impact  of its mistake on him, his relative and the third party  business.
HSBC didnt initially accept it had done anything wrong. Its stance was that it had been trying 
for weeks to contact Mr R directly without success.  All the while the arrears were mounting  
up. It explained Mr R had provided  the contact details for his relative. The third party  had 
previously contacted it on Mr Rs behalf. Indeed it had been  in contact with his relative  and 
the third party  business  in the months  immediately before the incidents  Mr R complained 
about. Both of these  parties were  aware of the loan and the arrears and had been in touch 
with it about trying to get this sorted. Up until now, Mr R had never told it he didnt want it to 
talk to these parties.  And as a result it suggested it had no reason to believe that it should  
not contact them.
Dissatisfied, Mr R came to our service.
Our investigator pointed  out that HSBC  needed  Mr Rs permission to contact Mr Rs relative 
and the third party business. She didnt think it could show that it had this. On this basis she 
agreed with Mr R that HSBC ought  not to have contacted either one of them. 
But she thought  it was clear that his relative already  knew about the loan and arrears. For 
this reason she concluded that the impact on Mr R of this disclosure to his relative was likely 
to be limited. She thought the impact  on Mr R of contacting the third party  business  was 
greater. She thought that it was understandable  that HSBCs mistake caused  Mr R distress  
and inconvenience.  In all the circumstances she thought  £250  for distress and 
inconvenience was appropriate.
After hearing from our investigator with her view,  HSBC  accepted  it ought to pay Mr R £250. 
Although it also thought,  our investigator  should  have made it clear that it had made the 
contact with the best of intentions.
Mr R rejected our investigators  view.  He responded to say I am pleased that you have 
investigated my complaint  and found HSBC  to be at fault. However, an offer of £250  
compensation is unacceptable  for the embarrassment and annoyance  this has caused  
myself and my [relative].  I therefore do not accept the offer of £250.00  and wish to pursue 
the matter further.
We could go no further at this first stage so Mr Rs complaint was passed to me to take a 
fresh look at it, and make  a decision.
Ref: DRN73927522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Mr R and HSBC agree that it did contact Mr Rs relative and the third party. Also it seems  
HSBC now agree it shouldnt have done  this. That being so whether HSBCs intentions  were 
good or not is not relevant. Thats because a business can only properly disclose  
confidential information to third parties  in limited  circumstances. If none of those limited 
circumstances applied,  which is what HSBC  appears to be accepting,  it should  not have 
disclosed the information. It follows that, the nature of its intentions, dont throw any light on 
whether it was correct  for it to contact  the third parties.
Mr R told us he didnt think HSBC tried to get in touch with him beforehand. I can see that 
HSBCs records  suggest otherwise. But this would only be something Id need  to look at 
further if HSBC was saying it was justified in contacting the third parties  because  he wasnt  
responding to it. It is no longer saying this so I dont need to look further  at this point.
Ive looked at the impact on Mr R of what HSBC did. From the information I have Mr Rs 
relative knew about the loan, the arrears  and the steps Mr R said he would take to sort the 
arears out. That information also shows the relative  also knew that it was likely if Mr R didnt 
follow through on his plans  HSBC  would chase him which it did. It is this most  recent  chasing  
activity that he complains about.  Taking  all of this on board, I think  the impact on Mr R in 
terms of the embarrassment and annoyance  he talks about  was most likely very limited.
From the information I have the third party business  also knew  the general  situation with the 
loan and the arrears.  For example, it had spoken with HSBC  about next steps re the arrears  
as they stood when it was acting for Mr R. That communication had been very recent. That 
said it did not appear it knew about the very latest  missed payment which  HSBC  was chasing 
Mr R to pay. It is the communications about that latest missed payment that Mr R complains 
about. But again, given the state  of the third partys  existing knowledge I think the impact on 
Mr R was less severe  than it would have been had the third party known  nothing  at all.
The Information Commissioners  Office  (IC0) is the regulator for data protection 
legislation. Mr R is concerned that HSBC has breached this legislation  and has thereby he 
says, acted illegally. The ICO is the appropriate body to contact about this if that is what  
Mr R chooses to do. 
We can only tell a business to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience  
experienced by their customer  not by a third party. In this case  both Mr Rs relative  and the 
third party business  are third parties  in relation to this complaint. I realise  that Mr R asks for 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience too but I dont have the power to do this.
I take on board Mr Rs relative  is a close relative.  That relatives distress might have caused 
him to experience  distress.  Ive thought about this when thinking  about  if £250 goes far 
enough. Even with this in mind, I think £250  is a fair and reasonable award.
Ref: DRN73927523Mr R objected to the way HSBC asked his relative for updates and further  information.  He 
thinks this was harassment. Ive looked at everything that happened, in particular the  timing 
and wording of the communications.  Nothing  Ive seen makes me think HSBC behaved in an 
inappropriate manner  in relation to this part of his complaint.
For all of these reasons I think the sum of £250  is fair and reasonable for the distress  and 
inconvenience HSBCs mistake most likely caused  Mr R to experience.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay Mr R £250 for distress  and 
inconvenience, as it has already agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7392752