K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC incorrectly reported the status of his 
current account to credit reference  agencies, which adversely affected his credit  score.  
background
Mr C opened a Tesco bank current account in May 2018 and complained  to the bank in July 
that it was incorrectly  reflecting his use of that account in the information it was providing to 
credit reference agencies (CRAs). In particular he objected to the banks use of the activity 
codes U and S. He said S implied that his account had been closed, and apparently then 
re-opened the following month,  which was untrue.
Tesco bank  replied  that it had accurately reported  information to CRAs and that if there  had 
been a recording  error the responsibility for that rested  with those agencies. Mr C then 
raised a dispute  with Equifax, who said it hadnt made an error and suggested Mr C pursue 
the matter with his bank.
Having been unable to resolve  his complaint, Mr C brought it to us in December 2018. In his 
subsequent supporting documents Mr C provided a copy of his Equifax report  dated  4 March 
2019. He said this showed that the bank  had reported his account as settled/closed three 
times since he had opened it, and this was untrue. He added that it had reported similarly to 
other CRAs and claimed that this inaccurate reporting was responsible for reducing his credit 
score.
Over the months our investigator produced  a number of views  in the light of new information 
she received. But having been  in contact with Equifax  our investigators final view,  in 
summary, was she was satisfied that a recording of S on Mr Cs Tescos  account had not 
adversely affected  his credit score.
Mr C was very unhappy with this and made  the following main points: banks were  required 
to report accurate information to CRAs  and Tesco bank hadnt done  so, Equifax wasnt a 
lender and so couldnt know how a lender might regard a credit record  showing frequent 
closing and re-opening of the same account,  and this matter had already taken far too long 
to resolve.
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make clear at the outset that in considering complaints we are primarily seeking  to 
establish the detriment caused to customers by businesses where we consider their actions 
to have been unfair, unreasonable  or just plain  wrong. 
Here Mr C complains  that Tesco banks incorrect reporting of the status of his current 
account has caused him detriment, specifically a significant reduction to his credit score.
Mr C opened his account with £1 in May 2018 and withdrew it a few weeks later.  On 18 
September he paid in £0.01 and withdrew it the same day, and on 4 December he paid in 
Ref: DRN75315272£80 and withdrew that the same day. In the intervening months  Mr C made no use of his 
account, it had a zero balance and didnt have any lending facilities.
Mr Cs use of his account was plainly unusual, but Tesco bank has said it has followed its 
guidance manual (which  it supplied to us) in reflecting the account  status  to CRAs. Based on 
that manual, U (unclassified) can be reported where there has been no activity on an 
account that month and there  is a zero balance. And the information I have reflects that the 
banks use of U was consistent with its guidance  and was a fair and reasonable reflection of 
the fact that Mr C wasnt using his account.
But where Mr C hadnt used his account  for two consecutive  months,  and then did so in the 
third month, the bank  recorded month 2 as S, meaning settled and often  presumed  to mean 
that the account has been closed. The bank says that this reflects  its recording guidance in 
such circumstances, but that in any event  recording settled  on Mr Cs account followed by 
account reactivation the following month would have had no impact on Mr Cs credit score as 
he had no lending facilities on the account.
Equifax has confirmed that Mr Cs credit  score has not been influenced by Tesco banks 
reporting of settled on his current account. It says amongst those  factors  important in its 
determination of an individuals credit score are defaulted accounts, accounts in arrears, 
numerous credit searches, the number of loans on an account and reliance on credit cards.
For his part Mr C has said that as Equifax  is not a lender it cannot know what factors  they 
would take into account, and he believes from his experience that account instability (as he 
says appears to be demonstrated on his Tesco account) could be a relevant consideration 
for some lenders as it might imply that the person  is high risk. But that notwithstanding it is 
nevertheless incumbent on Tesco bank to report accurately to CRAs.
In his original complaint  to us Mr C said it was Tesco  banks reporting  that had caused  his 
credit score to drop, but Equifax has said that this isnt the case  and it has identified the 
factors it takes into account when credit scoring. These are entirely in line with normal 
practice for CRAs and in my view the other CRAs  to which Mr C referred will more likely than 
not have used a similar combination.
From the credit  report  Mr C provided with his complaint I note that it showed a default;  more 
than six credit card accounts, including  from lenders  specialising in lending  to customers 
who might  find it difficult to secure credit from more mainstream providers, and various loan 
contracts. It is my view that Mr Cs credit score will almost certainly have been adversely 
affected by this credit history and the existing  availability of credit to him at the time of the 
report. The more  credit available to an individual,  particularly  if it is unused as was the case 
here, the more risky a potential customer is likely to appear to any future  lender.
Mr C believes  the apparent instability on his Tesco current account would likely have an 
adverse impact on his future applications for credit. I plainly cannot  know definitively whether 
or not that is true as every  lender determines  their own scoring system. But I consider it 
extremely unlikely that this apparent frequent closure and reopening by Tesco  bank of a 
current account with no lending facilities would have much, if any impact  on a future  lender 
particularly given the much more significant  and relevant  risk indicators on Mr Cs credit file. 
And Mr C hasnt produced  any persuasive  evidence to the contrary.
But Mr C also makes the entirely valid point that lenders should be reporting  accurate 
information to CRAs,  and be believes  Tesco bank  is not. But whilst I agree with him that the 
Ref: DRN75315273banks use of settled  status on his account  is unusual, for the reasons I have given I am not 
persuaded that it has caused him detriment, or that it is likely  to do so in future.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7531527