K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms D say Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Ms D took out the PPI at the same time as they applied for a mortgage over the 
phone in December  2009.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Ms Ds complaint upheld it. Barclays  disagrees, so 
Mr and Ms Ds complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Ms Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
Barclays says it recommended the MPPI.  This means it needed to make  sure the policy  was 
right for Ms D as the policy holder in her circumstances  at that time. From the information  I 
have, I dont think its likely it did.
Ms D says she had a medical  condition when she bought the PPI, which had been diagnosed 
before the date of sale. The MPPI  didnt  cover Ms D for medical conditions  shed seen  a 
doctor about or got treatment  or medication for in the 12 months before the policy started. 
I think this exclusion wouldve mattered to Ms D. Thats because I think  shes  likely to have  
thought her medical condition, which was ongoing, would be one of the main  reasons she 
might need  to claim on the MPPI.  I wouldve expected Barclays  to advise Ms D that, 
because of this, it might  not be suitable for her.
Barclays says it doesnt have a recording of its call with Mr and Ms D and it doesnt have any 
notes or a transcript of this call. It has provided sales  documentation  from the time including 
a demands and needs statement that it says show Ms D didnt disclose that she had a 
medical condition.  Ms D on the other  hand has said she informed Barclays that she did and 
she has been consistent about this throughout her complaint. It was for Barclays  to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Ms D when it recommended it to her and without a call recording 
or transcript I cant be sure on this occasion that it did this. And I cant see Barclays advised 
Ms D the PPI might not be right for her because  she wouldnt be covered for it. Had it done 
so, I think its unlikely  Mr and Ms D wouldve bought  it. It follows that I think Mr and Ms D has 
lost out because of what  Barclays did wrong and so it should  put things right.
Ref: DRN72062822putting things right
Barclays should put Mr and Ms D in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The MPPI policy should be cancelled if it hasnt  been cancelled already, and Barclays 
should:
Pay Mr and Ms D the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Ms D made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also take off any amount it has 
paid Mr and Ms D in relation to commission.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays must  give      
Mr and Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Ms Ds complaint and direct Barclays  Bank  
UK PLC to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7206282