K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mrs E took out on the advice 
of Key Retirement Solutions Limited (KRS)  in 2012, jointly with her husband. Following his 
death, the mortgage is now in the sole name of Mrs E. 
The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage  was mis-sold. Mrs Es son - Mr E - has brought 
the complaint  on her behalf, having taken over from her friend,  Mr I, who helped Mrs E begin 
the complaint  initially.
background
In 2012, Mrs E and her late husband took out a lifetime mortgage of £45,000, with a further 
drawdown reserve of £135,000,  on advice  from KRS. The terms of the mortgage provide that 
no monthly repayments are required. The mortgage is only due to be repaid when the last 
surviving borrower sells the property  voluntarily,  goes into full-time nursing care or after their 
death. Interest  on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded.  
This means  that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a significant balance  to 
be repaid.
KRS rejected the complaint, prompting  Mrs E to refer it to us. The basis of Mrs Es complaint 
is that the mortgage was unsuitable, primarily, Mr E says, because the nature of the property 
makes it impossible for Mrs E to live out her days  there, making the lifetime  mortgage 
unsuitable for someone who will have to move. Mrs E also denies having received any legal 
advice or information  about the option  of paying the interest on the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  think KRS had done  anything  wrong. Mr E has asked that the 
complaint be reviewed an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mrs E is a consumer, and 
so meets  the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. More  importantly for 
this complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible 
complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this 
respect, Mr E is bringing the complaint on his mothers behalf.
But I must explain that, although  Mr E is representing his mother, it is Mrs E who is KRSs  
customer (or at least  was at the time of the events complained about). Mr Es role is to bring 
Mrs Es complaint on her behalf, in the same way that other  consumers might instruct a 
solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mr E to air 
his own grievances  about KRS, because he is not its customer; his role is limited to putting 
forward his mothers complaint.
In this final decision I have looked  at the sale of the mortgage and considered generally 
whether KRS did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Thats  included  listening to Mr Es 
recorded conversations  with our investigator. If the available evidence  is incomplete and/or 
Ref: DRN75604662contradictory, we reach  our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have happened,  
on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly  the same test that the courts use in civil 
cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2012.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; that notion  forms much of Mr Es argument. 
But where the consumers have signed to confirm that the information  is accurate, well 
generally attach some  weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good  faith,  can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory.  Mr E says that his father had impaired  sight  and hearing. But 
Mrs E and her late husband  signed  a declaration to say all of the information that had been  
gathered was correct.  
KRS was entitled to take what Mrs E and her late husband said on face value, including  their 
stated intention at that time not to want to move from their home. I appreciate  Mr E has 
concerns about  how his parents thinking  on this subject might  have been informed, but the 
fact is that his parents gave the information  to KRS and signed a confirmation to proceed 
document declaring it to be accurate. For Mr E at this stage to suggest  that information  
contained in the fact-find  shouldnt have been relied on is, effectively, to challenge  the 
veracity of the declaration his parents made.
It seems  Mrs E and her late husband  had specific financial objectives, including a holiday, 
repaying an existing  loan, doing some  home  improvements and establishing a drawdown 
reserve. The fact-find records  that Mrs E and her late husband  had specific spending plans  
but only £2,000 of savings. So it seems to me that a mortgage of some  sort or another 
wasnt necessarily unsuitable or inappropriate.
So Ive next considered whether something  other  than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better  option. Mrs E and her late husband  were both retired on a modest level of retirement 
income, so it shouldnt be assumed that Mrs E and her late husband would have been 
accepted for a traditional mortgage,  given their ages, or that they could have afforded the 
payments if they had been accepted. This,  combined with my earlier finding that theyd 
decided some borrowing  was necessary  to finance their plans, meant that equity  release  
was probably the only viable  option for Mrs E and her late husband, given  their 
circumstances and the preferences theyd expressed.
As to the lifetime mortgage itself,  its normal  for interest to roll up, and then to attract  further 
interest on a compounding  basis. The effect  of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the 
point-of-sale material. Ive seen  the illustration for the mortgage; it uses  an assumption that 
the mortgage will last for 23 years, but it includes a narrative pointing  out this assumption 
and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. This type of mortgage is 
specifically designed  for people on a modest income  that would struggle to meet  the regular 
payments required  under  a normal mortgage.
Mr E may feel the documents  were too complex  to ensure a proper understanding  of the 
mortgage. I cant know how much  of the information  Mrs E and/or her late husband 
assimilated. But the documents presented the information in a format  that was consistent 
with the requirements  set by the regulator - the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).  
Ref: DRN75604663As far as the ERC is concerned,  its not for me to say how much that should be. An 
ombudsman colleague  has already  decided  that a complaint  about  the ERC  itself is 
time-barred under our rules. If the FCA thought lenders were charging  too much  generally, it 
would make its position known to the industry as a whole. KRSs duty to Mrs E and her late 
husband in 2012 was to make sure details  of the ERC were documented in a manner that 
met the regulators requirements. Im satisfied that happened.
 
The mortgage documentation also states  very clearly that the mortgage  can be taken to 
another property  if the consumers needs and circumstances changed. It seems to me that 
this provision deals  with Mr Es concerns about  his mother  potentially being trapped in a 
property she can no longer maintain. Hes said that if she downsized,  shed have to pay off 
(or substantially reduce)  the mortgage,  thus incurring the ERC. 
I take his point, but moving to a more suitable property neednt necessarily mean moving  to 
a cheaper one. Also, whilst I have no power  to assess whether the amount of the ERC is fair 
or not, I can say what it is. According  to the mortgage documentation, it wouldnt exceed  
£11,550, plus an administration fee of £300.  Only Mrs E can decide  how much of a barrier to 
moving house that cost might be, alongside all of the other associated costs  involved in 
selling a property  and buying  another. But I cant find that the mortgage was unsuitable for 
her on the grounds  that she might now need to move.
Lastly, before they took out the mortgage in 2012  Mrs E and her late husband were required 
to have independent legal  advice  from a solicitor. The solicitor confirmed to KRS that shed 
explained the terms of the mortgage to Mrs E and her late husband. I think  that if the solicitor 
had had any concerns that Mrs E and her late husband didnt understand the nature and 
effect of what they were  signing, they wouldnt have been advised to proceed with it. I 
appreciate Mrs E doesnt recall this happening,  but thats where the contemporaneous  
evidence proves  its worth.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E (or Mr E on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7560466