K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains about how Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited handled a third 
partys claim  against her motor insurance  policy. She also complains about how LV handled 
her complaint. Mrs L is helping Mrs M to bring  her complaint. 
background 
In April 2017, a third party alleged that Mrs M damaged her parked car by reversing into it. A 
witness gave a statement  to the police. The police took no further  action. Mrs M denies that 
she was involved in a collision.
In April 2017, LV contacted Mrs M about  the claim. Ill deal below in more detail about what 
was said in that call. Mrs M says that she next heard about the claim when she was looking 
for motor insurance from another provider in December 2017.  
In January 2018, LV instructed an engineer to inspect Mrs Ms car. LV refuted the third 
partys claim  and instructed solicitors  to defend the claim. 
In response to Mrs Ms complaint, LV offered Mrs M compensation of £75 in relation to its 
failure to keep her updated about  the claim.  I understand that Mrs M returned  the cheque  to 
LV.
Mrs M complains that LV:
Failed to notify  her of a third party  claim against her policy.
Handled the claim inefficiently in that a number of representatives of LV dealt with the 
matter. 
Didnt communicate properly with her or Mrs L.
Failed to instruct  properly an engineer.
Mrs M wants  LV to remove  reference  to the pending  claim from its database and 
compensation of £1,000 in relation to increased premiums and distress.  She also wants  LV 
to improve its claims  handling and complaints processes. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld  in part and that LV should 
increase compensation by £125  in addition to the £75 it has already offered. The adjudicator  
said:
He didnt think that LV had failed to notify Mrs M of the third partys claim.
The business is entitled to decide  how it structures its complaints handling but didnt  
respond adequately to Mrs Ms complaint.  
LV should have  done more to keep Mrs M up to date about the third partys claim.  
LV delayed in instructing an engineer to prepare a second consistency report.
LV is obliged to record correctly  an ongoing  claim.
Ref: DRN72585072LV accepted the adjudicators view but Mrs M didnt. Mrs L responded on her behalf and 
said:
Mrs M would like the adjudicator to recommend  that LV improves its claim and 
complaints handling  processes.
LV should have  contacted Mrs M and asked for photographs of her car.
Mrs M was reasonably entitled  to assume that the third party  was no longer pursuing 
a claim following the polices decision not to proceed.  
The engineers  report was unhelpful, as LV didnt tell him about the area of the 
alleged collision, so he carried  out a full inspection  and reported on damage  
sustained before Mrs M owned the car. If LV had given proper instructions for the first 
report, it would have demonstrated  the fallacy of the claim. 
The adjudicator said that this service  cant make recommendations or ask a business to 
change its policy, process or procedures.  He said that LV was dealing with a claim from the 
third party but could have communicated better with Mrs M. The adjudicator  thought that the 
engineers report  was thorough. He said he remained of the view that compensation of £125 
in addition to the £75 LV had already  offered was fair. 
Mrs L said that:
LV didnt  notify Mrs M of the third partys claim and she only found  out about  it when 
making enquires about a new policy from another potential insurer.  
She wants confirmation that LV breached its duty to Mrs M and an apology.  
LV gave  inadequate instructions to its engineer,  which  meant that the report was of 
limited use. 
In April 2017, LV told her that there was no claim by the third party  and when the 
third party  made  her claim, LV should have told Mrs M but it didnt do so.
Theres limited  evidence  that LV pursued this matter  on Mrs Ms behalf  between 
April 2017 and December  2017.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr M and Mrs L have very strong feelings about  this matter. Theyve provided 
detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and considered. However,  I 
trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus  on what  I consider to be the 
central issues.     
This service was set up to provide an informal  alternative  to the courts  for consumers who 
have complaints about business  actions.  We dont have powers to make recommendations 
to business or to direct them to change their policies or processes. So, I cant direct  LV in 
relation to its claim handling and complaints processes. 
Ref: DRN72585073Its for the courts to decide which party is to blame for an accident or, indeed,  whether a 
party was involved in an accident at all. This service can consider however whether an 
insurer, LV in this case, acted in line with its policy terms and whether it acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mrs Ms policy provides that LV is entitled  to have  total control, defend and settle  any 
claim. So, LV can decide how it deals with the third partys claim. 
I think theres been some misunderstanding about  what amounts to a claim. LV received  
notice of the claim from the third partys insurer on 19 April 2017. It spoke with Mrs M on 
24 April 2017: that was LVs notification to Mrs M of the claim against her. Mrs Ls note of 
that conversation  says that the third party hadnt  made any formal claim but thats  not 
reflected in LVs note.  The third party had made a claim against Mrs M and thats  why LV 
was involved.  
Im satisfied that LV notified Mrs M of the third partys claim.  LV isnt in control of the process  
as its the third partys  claim. The third partys  insurer determines when and how the claim is 
made. Its not for LV to pursue the claim. But I agree with the adjudicator that LV didnt keep 
Mrs M adequately informed about what  was going on. 
The third partys insurer delayed in providing LV with details of the alleged collision. So, LV 
didnt have all the relevant  information when it first instructed its engineer  to inspect 
Mrs Ms car. I dont think LV was at fault in instructing  its engineer when it did  its arguably 
trying to preserve Mrs Ms position  by gathering  what information it could. But Mrs L is right 
that the engineers first report wasnt conclusive.  
Mrs L says that LV should have asked  for photographs of Mrs Ms car. Both LVs and Mrs Ls 
notes of the initial phone call in April 2017 indicate that Mrs M and Mrs L would take photos 
but wouldnt submit them  to LV at that stage, until there was further information. I dont think 
that LV was at fault in failing to insist on photos  then or later,  as its engineers  report was 
likely to be more helpful. 
I dont agree that Mrs M was reasonably entitled  to assume that the third party was no longer 
pursuing a claim following  the polices decision not to proceed. The polices letter to Mrs M 
explicitly says that the process of recovering financial losses  is separate from the police 
enquiry about  whether any traffic offences  have  been  committed.  
As the third party made a claim against Mrs M, LV was obliged  to record it. There are no 
grounds on which to direct LV to remove the claim from its database. While the claim is 
outstanding, it will show as an open  claim.  That may affect  Mrs Ms premium. If the claim is 
resolved in Mrs Ms favour,  she should  tell any new insurer about  that and there may be a 
refund of part of the premium. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that LV didnt initially respond appropriately to Mrs Ms 
complaint. And, as Ive said, LV failed to keep  Mrs M informed about the progress of the third 
partys claim. I think that total compensation of £200 is fair. In reaching that view, Ive taken 
into account the nature, extent and duration  of the distress and inconvenience those failings 
have caused Mrs M. 
Mrs M asked  that LV apologise.  I dont think a forced apology would have much meaning  so 
I wont ask LV to issue one. In any event, I see that in its letter  to Mrs M of 15 August 2018, 
LV apologised for failing  to keep her informed about  the third partys  claim.
Ref: DRN72585074my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part. I now require Liverpool  Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mrs M compensation of £200, less any amount (if any),  
its already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7258507