K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  in sales. He has told us he was entitled to some  sick pay 
but didnt have any savings or other  insurances he couldve  used  to make his store  card 
repayments in the event  he was unable to work. Mr C hasnt told us about  any health  
conditions he suffered at the time.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Cs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £0.69  per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
Capital One has sent us evidence to show that the credit card account closed in December 
2007.
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative says:
Capital One failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Capital One should 
have told Mr C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Capital One should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN79622502Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in September 1999  before the General Insurance  Standards  Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Capital  One at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and 
Ref: DRN79622503these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Capital One was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Capital One gave advice, whether it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Capital One gave Mr C sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Capital One, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Capital One had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr C has provided conflicting evidence about  how the PPI was sold to him. In one of the 
PPIQs we received  Mr C has said he took the policy out over the internet. Then in another  
Ref: DRN79622504PPIQ, Mr C has said he spoke to Capital  One over the phone  before completing a postal  
application. Mr C says in this call he was advised to take out the PPI and was told that by 
taking it out he had a better chance  of getting the PPI  so he felt pressured to do so when 
he received the postal  application form. 
The PPI and store card were taken out a long time ago, more than 20 years ago, so its 
understandable if Mr C cant remember exactly what happened at the time. But this also 
means its difficult to rely on what Mr C has said alone, and I must consider all the evidence 
available to come  to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
Capital One says that the PPI was taken out via a postal application and it has provided a 
copy of the application form. The postal application  shows that there was a separate section 
called Additional  Features where  PPI is listed. Ive also seen that the form says Please 
enrol me in Capital  Ones Payment Protection Scheme and there is both a yes and no 
option. Mr C ticked the yes option.  He says he only did this because of what was discussed 
on the phone, but without any other evidence to support this I cannot rely on this statement 
alone to say that he was pressured into taking out the PPI, or that he made  that decision on 
the phone  because he thought he had to. 
 
So, taking everything  into account, and without  stronger evidence  to the contrary,  I think  its 
more likely that Mr C knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did Capital One provide  advice?
Capital One says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr C disagrees  and says he was 
given advice when  speaking to Capital One over the phone  prior to taking out the PPI. But 
as Ive said above, Mr Cs evidence has been  inconsistent, and Ive not seen anything else 
to suggest a phone call took place.  Either way, Mr C made  the decision to take out the PPI 
when he ticked the yes box on the application  form and signed  the form, at home  in his own 
space and time. 
So, looking  at what I think is more likely to have happened when Capital One sold Mr C the 
PPI, Im not persuaded  that it provided advice.
This means  Capital One didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr C. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr C to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Capital One has provided us with Mr Cs application  form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve received, 
including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  
applied to policies  like Mr Cs. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mr C at the time, I dont think  Capital One gave 
Mr C the information  he fairly and reasonably  needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN79622505This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mr C any information  about the 
PPI but it referred  him to a leaflet about it. I think its unlikely Mr C would have agreed to take 
it out without at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr C would have 
thought it was free.
But it was Capital Ones responsibility to draw to Mr Cs attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Capital One did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy  was made clear to Mr C, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Capital One 
adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So, I dont think Capital  One gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Cs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Capital One ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Capital Ones shortcomings  have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ref: DRN79622506Ive found that Capital  One didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr C 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Capital One done things properly. 
Mr C says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr C had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr C thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr C ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Capital One didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mr C didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  conditions that Mr C knew about or 
which he was receiving  medical attention during the 12 months before the start of the 
insurance;
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it seems  it 
contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more  onerous 
evidential requirements to support a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr C pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN79622507I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr C might reasonably  
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr C 
from taking out the policy,  Mr C, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr C would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr C would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position, he would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
Ref: DRN79622508circumstances, to conclude Capital One should  pay Mr C compensation, as that would put 
him in a better  position  than he would  have been  in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks Capital One misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Capital Ones statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Capital  
One failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Capital One gave Mr C, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1999 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Capital One negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr C and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Capital One had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Mr Cs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant Capital One should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  of 
the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had on the chances  of making a claim.
But Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Cs particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7962250