K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible  manner. 
background
Mr M took out four loans  with Uncle  Buck between  February 2014 and May 2014.  The 
amounts borrowed  were from £125  to £225  and they were repayable in one repayment. 
Mr M repaid loans one to three but didnt repay loan four. A summary  of Mr Ms borrowing 
with Uncle  Buck is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
113 February 2014 200 28 February 2014
21 March 2014 225 31 March 2014
319 April 2014 125 30 April 2014
43 May 2014 225
Uncle Buck  says that in September 2015,  it sold the debt to a third party.
Mr M says that Uncle Buck didnt make appropriate  affordability checks and if it had done so, 
it would  have seen  that he couldnt afford  to repay  the loans. He says that the loans made  
his position worse. Mr M wants a refund of interest  and charges, with interest  and adverse 
information removed  from his credit file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ms complaint.  He said initially  that he didnt think  that 
Uncle Buck  was wrong to lend to Mr M. The adjudicator  said hed missed some important 
information, so he looked at the matter again. He said that Uncle  Buck shouldnt have given 
Mr M loans  one to four because it saw that he was having difficulty  managing his money. 
The adjudicator said that Uncle Bucks checks showed that Mr M had at least  three 
outstanding short-term loans when he applied for loan one. So, Uncle  Buck shouldve 
realised that it was unlikely Mr M could  repay  loan one and subsequent loans in a 
sustainable way. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It responded at some length.  In summary, it 
said:
The adjudicator  had changed his view.
Its not right to remove entries  from Mr Ms credit file.
Its credit check before  loan one didnt show that Mr M was in financial difficulty. 
Applicants should give accurate and true information.
It would  still consider an application  if there was certain adverse credit information.  
Repeat lending  isnt necessarily irresponsible.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN76050392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance and later the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  defines  sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN76050393The information a prospective lender can see from a credit check  isnt in the same  format or
detail as Mr M can see from his own credit report.  Nevertheless, I think that the credit checks  
Uncle Buck  carried out before loan one showed  that Mr M already had at least  three active, 
short-term accounts. So Uncle  Buck  was aware  or ought to have been aware, that Mr M 
was already having problems managing  his money.  In these circumstances,  I think that 
Uncle Buck  ought  to have realised it was unlikely  that Mr M wouldve been able to sustainably
repay this loan  and any subsequent loans. 
In response to the points made  by Uncle Buck, the adjudicator explained why he changed 
his view and I think he was right to do so. 
I think its right in this case to remove adverse information about  loans  one to four from
Mr Ms credit file, as Uncle Buck shouldnt have given him those loans. 
I agree  that applicants  should give accurate and true information but theres  a requirement 
on the lender  to lend sustainably. I think that in this case, Uncle  Buck was on notice that 
Mr M was already having difficulty  managing  his money. I appreciate that, given the nature 
of the lending, some adverse information wouldnt necessarily preclude lending.  But I think  
the information Uncle Buck had here was that Mr M was already struggling to manage  his 
money such that it was likely that he couldnt repay further borrowing in a sustainable way. 
This decision isnt based  on Uncle Bucks  repeat  lending, so I wont  comment  further on that 
point.  
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold the complaint about loans one to four and Uncle 
Buck should  put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck should  do
To put things right, I  direct Uncle Buck Finance  LLP to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on loans one to four. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts, from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans one, 
two and three. 
Remove any adverse  information recorded on M Ms credit file in relation to loan four, 
once the capital on that loan has been  repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Mr M didnt  repay loan four and the outstanding  debt has now been sold to third party  debt 
collection companies. I dont know whether  Mr M has repaid any of the debt to the debt 
collection companies. 
Ref: DRN76050394It seems  reasonable that if Mr M still owes some of the capital he borrowed, part of the 
refund due to him should be used  to repay  that debt. But to do so, Uncle  Buck must first take 
the debt back  into its own books and reduce it to reflect just the capital that Mr M borrowed. 
Once it has recovered the capital Mr M borrowed, any remaining compensation should  be 
paid directly to Mr M. 
If Uncle Buck is unable, or unwilling, to repurchase the debt within four weeks of Mr M 
accepting my decision, it must ensure that all its interest and charges added  to loan four and 
any other interest and charges added by the debt collection companies,  are refunded  to 
Mr M, so he can choose whether to use the compensation to settle his debt directly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I now direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7605039