K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mr C bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Lloyds says the card and policy were sold during a meeting, but Mr C says he applied  by 
post. Having looked at Mr Cs credit  card application  form, on balance I think  its likely it was 
sold during a meeting, because the form includes the selling branchs sort code number.
But whether  the card and policy were sold during a meeting or by post, this doesnt affect my 
overall conclusions  about the complaint.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mr C aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I 
say this because  he did tick the box on the application form to show  that he wanted the 
cover. The PPI was included  on the application  form as an Optional feature  for the 
credit card.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Even though he says he was 
entitled to sick pay from his employer, the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to these  
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think Mr C wouldve had some  use 
for the policy, despite his existing arrangements.
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr C would have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ref: DRN73071512But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7307151