K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complaint is that Clydesdale Bank  Plc has not properly compensated him for a       
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr E complained to Clydesdale about  the sale of a PPI policy  on a credit  card account. 
Clydesdale upheld Mr Es complaint and paid him £568.42  compensation. Mr E didnt think 
Clydesdale had properly  compensated him and asked us to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought Clydesdale had fairly compensated Mr E. 
Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators findings  so the complaints  been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Clydesdale has agreed to uphold the complaint  about the mis-sale of the policy.  So I wont 
look into how the PPI policy  came to be sold to Mr E. In this decision Ive looked at whether 
Clydesdale has fairly compensated Mr E.
Mr Es representatives have not told us why they think the compensation isnt correct.         
So Ive looked  at the whole method  and calculation that Clydesdale has used to work  out 
what it owes Mr E.
Having done so I think Clydesdale has fairly compensated Mr E and Ill explain why.
I think it would be helpful to explain our approach when we find that a PPI policy  has been 
mis-sold.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Clydesdale to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated  charges caused by the PPI. Wed  also 
expect Clydesdale  to compensate the consumer for any periods where  theyd been  out of 
pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case Mr E had PPI attached to his credit card account  from 2004 to 2007. During that 
time he was charged  PPI premiums. And I can see these  have  been  refunded  by 
Clydesdale.
Mr E was charged interest  because of those premiums. And Clydesdale  has refunded  this 
too.
Clydesdale has also added compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple interest for the 
time Mr E has been out of pocket.
Ref: DRN72772892So I can see Clydesdale has calculated the compensation  in the way Id expect it to. And Im 
satisfied it puts Mr E in the financial position hed be in if the PPI hadnt been sold to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc has fairly compensated Mr E for mis-selling  
him a PPI policy. So I make no further  awards  against Clydesdale  Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7277289