K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that St Andrews Insurance Plc refused to settle their contents 
insurance claim in full. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  on 14 December 2018, which set out the 
background and forms part of this determination (copy attached). I explained  why I intended 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part, by asking St Andrews  to pay them for a single 
bed, a sofa, and £500  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. However, I 
also explained I wouldnt be asking St Andrews to pay out for the recliner  chair or the 
clothing Mr and Mrs B said was either damaged  or missing. I asked both parties to respond 
with any further  evidence or comments they wanted  me to consider. 
St Andrews  responded to say they agreed  with my decision. Mr and Mrs B responded  with 
some further  comments and points. In summary, they said some boxes of clothing definitely 
went missing,  including nine particular sets, which they valued at £150  each.  They also 
queried how much they would receive  for the sofa.
Mr and Mrs B also repeated that their local dry cleaners had concluded that all the clothing 
was damaged beyond repair, as shown  by the report Mr B sent us. They  said the dry 
cleaners retained  the clothing  on their premises, and they didnt see the clothes again.  Mr B 
explained that he valued the items at a total of £3,863 based on store prices. They asked 
that I apply  discretion in respect of the clothing because  there  is a direct contradiction 
between the insurers  agents inspections and the dry cleaners report, and that theyd 
ultimately lost all of the clothing. Mr B also said the £1,300 St Andrews offered for the 
clothing wasnt paid to them (although, with some further information, Mr B was later able to 
confirm with his bank that these payments were made). 
Overall, Mr and Mrs B said this has been  a traumatic time, involving long and tedious phone  
calls and emails, which should really not have  happened. They  asked me to consider raising  
the award for distress and inconvenience from £500  to £1,500   they believed this would be 
more emotionally comfortable, and said this has been an enormously stressful  situation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As explained in my provisional decision, 
when the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I have to make my decision based  on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
In response to my provisional findings,  Mr and Mrs B mentioned  the nine sets of missing 
clothing, and they also increased  the value of the items they believe are missing from £1,000 
to £1,350. However, given the lack of additional supporting  evidence,  I remain  satisfied its 
most likely St Andrews agents  didnt lose, or otherwise  dispose  of, any boxes of clothing for 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  So I dont propose to hold St Andrews 
responsible for them. 
Turning to the clothing Mr and Mrs B have said was damaged beyond repair;  Ive already 
accepted there is contradictory evidence from the dry cleaners and the insurers inspections  
 but Ive also explained why Im persuaded the overall payment of £1,300  is fair in these 
Ref: DRN73183852circumstances. Im therefore not recommending  St Andrews pays  any more  for the clothing. 
If the dry cleaners didnt return these items to Mr and Mrs B, they will need to speak to the 
dry cleaners about this directly.  
Mr and Mrs B also asked  what I intended to award for the sofa. However,  if they accept my 
decision, St Andrews  will arrange to settle  this item directly with Mr and Mrs B, in line with 
the terms and conditions of their policy   in the same way as the other  items that were 
settled under this claim previously. 
I appreciate the situation and damage  to Mr and Mrs Bs home and belongings has been  
very stressful for them. However, I can only take into account  the distress  and inconvenience 
that was caused directly  by St Andrews in the areas I identified in my provisional decision  
not by the flood itself, which would always have been distressing for them. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs B, but Im still satisfied £500  is reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances. In conclusion, overall, my decision remains  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint in part, and direct  St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B the following: 
(a)compensation for the loss of their sofa at the time it was disposed  of, in line with the 
terms of the policy;
(b)£200 for the single  bed; and
(c)£500 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the handling of this claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Joanna Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73183853COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc refused to settle their contents insurance claim  
in full. 
background
In late 2014 Mr and Mrs B had a water leak in their home, which  flooded their property. They made a 
claim on their contents  insurance policy  with St Andrews  for the items they believed  were damaged 
by the water. They had to leave their home and remove all their furniture and belongings  as soon as 
possible due to the extent  of the flood, but the insurers agent didnt  arrange for the removal of the 
contents until five weeks later.
St Andrews  agreed  to pay for a number  of items of furniture but declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim for 
their sofa,  a recliner armchair, and two beds because they didnt  think they had been damaged by the 
water. There were several inspections of these items, which all confirmed  there was no existing 
damage. Against  this, Mr and Mrs B said the inventory  report  from when  the items  were removed from 
their home  clearly showed they were damaged  by the water. 
St Andrews  also only partially settled Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the clothing they said was damaged  in 
the flood. They offered a total of £1,300 towards the restoration and replacement  cost of the clothes  
which they felt was fair, but Mr and Mrs B wanted £3,863. Mr and Mrs B also said St Andrews agents 
removed six boxes  of clothing but only returned three, so they want  compensation for these missing 
boxes. St Andrews investigated this, but believed all boxes of clothing  that had been  removed were  
returned. 
An investigator here looked  into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns but didnt  think their complaint should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the complaint was 
referred to me.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Because some of the evidence in this case  isnt complete or 
conclusive, I need to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities   in other words, what I 
consider is more likely than not to have  happened.
Firstly, I think  its important to set out the context around the escape of water and how this affected Mr 
and Mrs Bs home. Mr and Mrs B live in a ground floor flat. The leak came from the mains water 
supply and the loss adjusters notes from the time of the claim said it affected all rooms and contents 
on the floor [of] the property. The property had to be stripped, including the removal  of the plaster/ 
plasterboard covering the walls. The loss adjuster  also noted that the property needed to be emptied  
as a matter of urgency  as further damage could  be happening  and said we will appoint for removals 
immediately. The removal  took place  five weeks  later. 
The key issue I need to determine is whether St Andrews acted  fairly, and in line with the policy 
terms, when  declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim  for the outstanding items. Those terms say that St 
Andrews will repair or replace items that are damaged  by an escape of water, so it isnt the case that 
they will pay for each item that was damaged if those items can be restored to the condition they were  
in before the leak happened.   
The inventory report from the time the items were  removed from Mr and Mrs Bs home  confirmed the 
sofa was wet on the bottom, and the chair was noted as mouldy. While this report shows  the items 
might have been damaged  or otherwise  affected by the water initially,  this doesnt mean they 
Ref: DRN73183854remained damaged after they had naturally dried out and been cleaned by St Andrews agents.  After  
the cleaning, the sofa was inspected by the loss adjuster, the storage company, and the insurers 
furniture and restoration specialist.  All three inspections concluded that there were  no signs of 
damage from the water.  The recliner armchair wasnt inspected by the furniture and restoration 
specialist, but it was inspected  by the personal  claims  consultant who was appointed by St Andrews 
at Mr and Mrs Bs request.  So, again, there were  three  inspections of the chair, and all three 
concluded that there were no visible signs of damage by water. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that the current condition of the items was caused by the flood 
in their home, given the other items that were damaged  in the same room. But the evidence from the 
inspections doesnt  show that the escape of water contributed  to their condition. The loss adjusters 
notes said the sofa was several years old, and concluded that its present condition was down to 
general wear and tear  which isnt covered by Mr and Mrs Bs policy. The personal claims  
consultant also said she didnt think  the current condition  of the recliner chair was connected to the 
escape of water. So, taking all this into account, I dont think St Andrews acted unreasonably in 
refusing to pay out for the sofa or the recliner chair under the terms of the policy.  
I note,  however, that the storage company emailed St Andrews in December 2016 saying All items 
that we had in storage have now been disposed of as authorised by [Mr B]. But from what Ive seen 
in the claim  file, Mr B only ever authorised the disposal of items that were deemed beyond  
economical repair. The sofa was still in storage at that point. So, if it has now been disposed of by the 
storage company acting as St Andrews agent, St Andrews should compensate Mr and Mrs B for the 
loss of the sofa at the time of its disposal  in accordance with the policy terms.  
Turning to the two beds Mr and Mrs B claimed  for (one single mattress and bed base, and one double 
mattress and bed base), St Andrews has since agreed to pay for these items. They  also paid £1,300 
towards the cost of replacing or restoring the items of clothing. So I now need to decide whether the 
way St Andrews  offered  to settle these items is fair, and in line with the requirements  of the policy. 
A personal claims consultant inspected Mr and Mrs Bs double bed to determine whether  there was 
any water  damage.  While  he wasnt able to reach a firm conclusion, he recommended  that the insurer 
paid for this item. St Andrews then agreed to pay for the single bed (mattress  and base)  on the same 
basis, even though Mr and Mrs B had already disposed  of this item and so it couldnt be inspected. 
They paid £369 for the double bed and offered  £200  for the single bed. 
The terms  of Mr and Mrs Bs policy say that, in settling a claim, St Andrews will pay the amount it 
would have cost them to replace the items, rather than the amount it would cost Mr and Mrs B. From  
reviewing St Andrews claim file, it appears Mr B chose to have any items that were  damaged beyond 
repair settled in cash,  rather than replaced  by the insurer. In these  circumstances, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for St Andrews to limit the cash settlement to the amount it would have cost them to 
replace the items, and their notes show they explained this to Mr B at the time. The notes said:  
advised  we would cash settle on the discounted amount  customer  understood this.  Overall, Im 
satisfied St Andrews acted fairly in settling  the claim  for the beds.  
The policy terms are different when it comes to settling claims for clothing and linen  because an 
amount for wear  and tear will be deducted from any claim. Under the general conditions of the policy, 
the policyholder must also substantiate their claim  by providing, for example,  proof of ownership  and 
value of the items theyre claiming for, and written estimates and quotations.
The storage company  inspected  the clothing twice and concluded that the previous steps theyd  taken 
were enough to restore the items to the condition they were in before  the flood (they were placed in 
an ozone room to remove lingering odours). However,  they also felt they needed to be cleaned.  The 
loss adjuster inspected the items again  at Mr and Mrs Bs home  in March 2016. She said there were  
76 items and none were damaged by water or mould. St Andrews offered £600 for the clothing to be 
cleaned as a gesture of goodwill, but said they wouldnt replace any clothing because  they didnt think  
the items were damaged. 
Ref: DRN73183855Mr B still disagreed. He said the clothing  was smelly, mouldy, and discoloured. So the personal claims  
consultant inspected the clothing again. She found that 10 items of clothing had been damaged either  
in storage or by the water,  but concluded  that the rest of the clothing didnt smell and wasnt 
damaged, so she said these could be cleaned and ironed. Mr B still wanted them  all replaced  and 
said theyd otherwise throw  them out. 
Mr and Mrs B then provided evidence from a drycleaner  to say that cleaning wasnt  possible. He 
provided a list of 106 items of clothing. St Andrews asked for receipts  for the cleaning, but Mr B didnt 
have any because the cleaning didnt  go ahead. In light of this evidence, St Andrews final position 
was to still offer the £600 for the clothing   and to pay a further £700 following the personal  claims 
consultants inspection (a total of £1,300). 
Given the contradicting  evidence from the drycleaners and the inspections,  in my view, St Andrews  
didnt act unreasonably  in refusing to pay the full £3,863 Mr B wanted for the106 items he took to the 
drycleaners. I havent been provided with anything to support these  valuations and I note Mr B 
previously told St Andrews the clothing was worth the lesser amount of £2,400. Given  the policy  
requires proof  to substantiate these costs,  and there would also need to be a deduction  for wear  and 
tear, on balance,  I find St Andrews payment of £1,300 overall for the clothing to be fair. 
Ive also looked into what Mr and Mrs B said about the missing boxes. In April 2016 Mr B told the 
personal claims consultant that he believed Polygon had already disposed of some clothing. He later 
said they discarded  a box of clothing,  and valued this at £1,000, although the contents of the box 
were seemingly unknown. St Andrews  agent confirmed they didnt dispose  of any clothes,  there was 
no further clothing  in storage, and they said the inventory  report shows three boxes of clothes were  
removed from the home and three were returned  which the removals  company confirmed. 
Mr B now believes the inventory report shows there were six boxes and that St Andrews  agents 
disposed of the other  three. This is because the inventory report  says PK 3 clothes when  describing 
the boxes of clothing, and he believes  PK 3 means three boxes. However, both St Andrews  and 
their agent confirmed  that PK does  not relate to the number of boxes. While I appreciate there has 
been some  confusion around this, on balance Im satisfied there werent any boxes of clothes missing 
or otherwise  disposed  of, based  on the available evidence.  
Looking at St Andrews handling of this claim, the whole  matter could have been handled better in my 
opinion. So Im minded to award compensation for the distress and inconvenience that has been 
caused. I say this for the following reasons:
The loss adjuster  confirmed the contents needed to be removed immediately following  the flood, 
but this didnt happen.  St Andrews notes  confirm  the items were in water for up to 5 weeks and 
storage for 3 months and no intervention  taken on these items to keep them in a controlled  
environment. 
Mr and Mrs B were  clearly worried about their belongings during this time, given they called St 
Andrews to ask for them all to be checked in March 2015  because theyd been standing in water 
for a while  and they werent sure how damaged they were. St Andrews  refused this request  
which I dont think was reasonable, and Mr B had to argue for the items to be inspected  
unnecessarily before  St Andrews agreed. 
There was also a lot of confusion  throughout around what St Andrews had deemed as damaged  
beyond repair, what they were  going to try to restore, and what  they were refusing to pay for 
under the claim. The claim file shows St Andrews  kept changing  its position  on a number of items 
 and the costs werent clear when valuing the items. They were also unclear at times on the 
amounts theyd already  paid. 
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs B were  entitled to dispute  the items St Andrews  declined to pay for. They 
kept asking for a clear  list of all the items and their decision on each, but the position was 
confusing and unclear a lot of the time. 
Mr and Mrs B also asked for copies of the inspection reports and inventory  reports, which  they 
had to keep chasing  and St Andrews delayed in providing. They also asked for a clear itemised 
list of clothing, which it looks  like St Andrews  agreed to provide but never  did. The position would 
have been a lot clearer, sooner, if theyd done this. 
Ref: DRN73183856The inspection  reports for the items in dispute were also not comprehensive  or detailed, which  
further confused matters.  
Taking into account all of the above, and having regard  to the general level of awards  we make, I 
assess fair compensation at £500 for the inconvenience St Andrews and their agents caused to Mr 
and Mrs B at an already distressing time.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and propose to direct 
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B:
(d)Compensation for the loss of their sofa at the time it was disposed of (if this has happened);
(e)£200  for the single bed, as theyve already offered;
(f)£500  for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by their handling of this claim. 
I now invite  both parties to respond  to my provisional  decision with any further comments  or evidence  
they would like me to consider.
Joanna Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7318385