K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI).
Mrs G was sold PPI with her mortgage in 2002.  In 2003 Mrs G was sold another  policy to 
cover this mortgage. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland PLC, Halifax at the time, mis-sold her 
these policies and Ive considered the sale of both policies in this decision.
Both policies  were Total Mortgage Protection Plans (TMPP), this means  Mrs G had the 
option to include  a payment protection insurance policy, life cover and critical illness  cover  
(CIC). Mrs Gs first TMPP policy taken out in 2002 was a payment protection policy only.  
Mrs Gs second TMPP  policy taken out in 2003  included PPI and critical illness.  
Halifax has told us that it has refunded  Mrs G £1,418.76 for the period  of time that both 
policies were in force.  Mrs G says she hasnt yet received this refund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of these policies on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided neither  of the policies were  mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Mrs G has made a number of complaints about the policies and why she thinks  they were
mis-sold to her. She said she was advised  to take out PPI and she was not told she could 
hunt around for the same policies  from other  providers, so she agreed to take it out. Mrs G 
also says she felt pressured to take out the policies.  
Both policies  were taken  out a long time ago, and Mrs G hasnt given us a lot more  detail 
about what happened or what was said that made her feel pressured. So, its difficult  to rely 
on what Mrs G has said alone to conclude  that something untoward happened.
Halifax says the optional nature of the policies wouldve been made clear to Mrs G before  
the sale was concluded. And from on what weve seen  of these types of sales  in the past,  
the customer wouldve  usually had to complete some paperwork making an active  selection 
in favour  of the PPI before it was added to their account. Unfortunately,  due to the length of 
time thats  passed  not all the documents from the sale are available. But based on what we 
already know about these  types  of sales, and in the absence of any stronger evidence to the 
contrary, I think its likely Mrs G knew the policies were  optional  and chose to take them  out 
without any undue pressure. 
Both Mrs G and Halifax agree that these sales were conducted on an advised basis.  This 
means Halifax had to take reasonable steps to ensure  the policies were suitable  for her - 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that they were.  For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the TMPP cover and 
she seems to have had a need for this type of cover.
Mrs G says the TMPP policies werent  of any use to her because  she had always  been 
entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six months half sick pay from her employer. 
The polices, however, wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  in the event  Mrs G was unable  
Ref: DRN79201962to work. Mrs G was solely responsible for all the monies borrowed  against  her property and I 
think she chose to take out the cover to give her peace of mind that this significant financial 
commitment was met in the event she was too sick to work or made unemployed. And I think 
Mrs G wouldve found the policies especially useful when her sick pay reduced to half.
The policy taken out in 2003  included CIC. Mrs G says this wasnt  suitable for her as she 
was in good health. But Mrs Gs mortgage  was a significant and long-term  financial 
commitment secured against  her home. And even though she was in good health  at the time 
of sale, there  was no guarantee that things would not change in the future. The 
consequence of Mrs G not being  able make the repayments  on her mortgage  could have  
been serious. The critical illness cover was designed  to provide her with a lump sum in the 
event she became seriously ill during  the life of the policy that could pay off the mortgage  or 
it could be used to help her with her general living costs or to cover  medical  expenses  if 
necessary. This would also leave her sick pay for other expenses.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs G about the policies in 2002  and in 2003 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But its likely she chose to take out the TMPP policies - 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. But for the same  reasons I think the policies 
were suitable for her, I think they wouldve been useful for her had something gone  wrong.  It 
also looks like the policies  were  affordable.  So, I dont think better  information  about TMPP 
would have put her off taking out the cover on either occasion.
So overall, I dont  think these policies were mis-sold and so I dont think Halifax needs to 
refund all of the TMPP payments made. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs G back  
some of the cost of the policies - so I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think Mrs G was mis-sold TMPP alongside her
mortgage in 2002 or 2003.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7920196