K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Omni Capital Finance Retail Limited wont  release him from a fixed sum 
loan agreement which paid for an online educational course  for his child.
background
In July 2017 Mr G bought  an online educational course for his child using credit provided by 
Omni. Omni  says he took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over four years  to pay for this 
educational course.
In April 2018 Mr G complained to Omni. Omni said his complaint was about the course no 
longer being appropriate  for his child, that the monthly payments were  high, and he wanted 
to cancel the agreement.  Mr G also complained to the course provider and in October 2018 
the course provider  answered his complaint. Both the course provider and Omni considered 
the matter and they both said that they had not done  anything  wrong. So he complained  
here.
Our Investigator  upheld this complaint, but Omni  didnt agree. So this dispute  moved  to the 
second part of our process and I considered the matter. Earlier this month I issued a 
provisional decision allowing the parties to respond  as I saw the dispute differently to the 
Investigator. Omni has accepted my position. Mr G didnt respond  within  the timescale set 
out. So the complaint comes to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence I didnt think this complaint should be successful. I summarise my arguments  
from my full provisional decision which the parties  received below:
Omni didnt  sell Mr G the course,  but it has some responsibilities  to Mr G due to certain  
protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Mr G entered  
with Omni  is regulated  by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which provide him 
with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
Omni has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically  signed including  the 
credit agreement (we have copies  of these)  and some handwritten ones  from the sale (which 
it doesnt have  copies of). Mr G accepts  that he did complete documents  and that he 
completed forms on an electronic device.  Omni  says these documents  show  that Mr G knew 
what he was doing. Omnis position is essentially is that the documentary evidence from the 
point of sale is decisive  and is, in short, the end of the matter  as Mr G agreed to everything 
in those documents. The Investigator  didnt agree that position  was a complete appreciation 
of what happened  here. The investigator  noted that was said by the representative  is also 
important as the discussion will have  started  before the paperwork was signed. And Mr G 
would have considered what the representative  said in his decision making  during  the sale. 
And it was on this basis that the investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint.
Ive considered what Mr G has said and did very carefully, particularly his comments  
regarding the sales representative indicating that there was some possibility that he could 
(with the agreement of Omni)  opt out of the credit  agreement. Ive considered  the recording 
Ref: DRN73963802of the call Mr G had with this service where  this issue is discussed.  And Ive considered  it in 
light of what he has said in his earlier complaint  form provided  to this service  and what  he 
originally complained about. It is clear to me that the emphasis of his complaint is that the 
course wasnt sufficient for his child, who by his own admission was passing all the modules 
and assessments within the course. Mr G points to his child explaining  that they could do all 
the modules and assessments in the course  and that it wasnt  adding to their school work. 
Mr G points to his child even explaining this to the course provider.
Ive also considered that Mr G agreed to the course in July 2017 and hasnt raised  any 
concerns about  it until well into 2018 and then that was with regard to his child being able to 
do the course and that it wasnt different to what they were getting at school. Considering  Mr 
Gs comments (both written and from call recording) and how events have unfolded  it is clear  
to me that the crux of Mr Gs complaint  is that the course isnt sufficiently stretching for his 
capable child. Ive not seen persuasive evidence of Mr G complaining  to Omni or the course  
provider that he only entered into the agreement because he believed he had a right to exit it 
at no extra  cost at any time.
Furthermore I note Mr G makes very clear in his original complaint submission to this service  
he appreciated it was a big commitment as once  the credit agreement  was signed I was 
effectively financially tied into the programme for four years  paying £65 a month. 
He also makes clear that he appreciated that there was no guarantee of being  able to get 
out of the agreement and that the decision would sit with Omni as the credit  provider  when 
he said he (the selling  representative)  suggested that there may be a way to opt out in 
future by speaking to the credit company. These comments (both in the same complaint 
form) illustrate to me that Mr G was aware  he was entering into a binding  commitment with 
no guarantee of getting out early  and that he knew this when he signed the documentation.
I have also considered Mr Gs comments about  what actually happened at the point of sale.  I 
appreciate these events  were some time ago but do note his written complaint form sent to 
this service the year after the sale (which is nearly  four years  ago now).  I give more  
weighting to Mr Gs recollections  of events which were given closer to the events in question. 
But overall one clear observation I have of Mr Gs comments  about  the time is that there isnt 
any great narrative to what happened  that day. There are very few details about what 
happened or the exact nature of what was said and done when. I appreciate  that these 
events were some time ago. But as Omni argue  the paperwork  which  Mr G signed tells a 
story and to explain that consumers need  to be both plausible and persuasive  about what  
they say happened.  And although I consider Mr Gs comments plausible  I am not persuaded 
that they are sufficient  to override Omnis comments on the matter. So I currently dont think  
Mr G was materially misrepresented into entering an agreement  hed otherwise not have  
entered.
I also have to consider  whether there was any breach of contract here or what  was sold to 
Mr G was misrepresented to him. But having considered Mr Gs submissions about how his 
child was provided  with a laptop and has consistently worked through  the modules and 
assessments provided by the course provider Im not persuaded there  has been any breach. 
Ive not seen any persuasive  arguments that what Mr Gs child has been working on is 
different to what was sold to Mr G. It seems  to me that the course is as described. And it has 
been shown that the course  provider  have been  willing to amend the course to fulfil the 
needs of Mr Gs child as clearly they are demonstrating capability in these courses.  But I 
cant see Mr G has engaged fully in getting  the most out of this offer.  So Im not currently  
Ref: DRN73963803persuaded there has been any breach or misrepresentation here. And accordingly I do not 
currently see any persuasive reason to uphold this complaint against Omni.
It was for the above reasons that I felt Mr Gs complaint  shouldnt  be successful, and that 
Omni can fairly ask him to pay the agreed  payments under the agreement  until the 
agreement is completed.
On receipt of my provisional decision Omni responded to agree with my position.  Mr G has 
had the provisional decision sent to him through the details he provided and that weve  used 
throughout the lifespan of this dispute at this service. There has also been attempts to 
contact Mr G to gather  his views on the provisional decision. Im satisfied weve  issued the 
provisional decision correctly to him. He has chosen  not to respond  within  the timeline set 
out. So in the interests  of finality I now proceed  to my final decision.
As neither party has sought to argue with my position as set out in my provisional decision I 
see no need to depart from that position.  Accordingly for this reason and the reasons set out 
above and in my provisional decision I have decided this complaint is unsuccessful.
So I do not uphold  this complaint by Mr G. I appreciate he will be disappointed by this 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Omni Capital Finance 
Retail Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7396380