K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Ms Hs credit  card account  when she applied for the card by post. It provided protection  in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
Ms H mainly  complains that she wasnt made aware that she had PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
There were Yes and No tick boxes for PPI on the credit card application  form Ms H filled 
in. Next to where  it says on the form: Please  enrol me in Capital  Ones  Payment Protection 
scheme Ms H put an X in the Yes  box indicating that she wanted  the insurance.  So, even 
if understandably shes forgotten this now, I think Capital One made Ms H aware that the 
PPI was optional  and that she chose  to take it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for 
her. But it still had to make sure that Ms H had enough information to make a proper  
decision about whether PPI was right for her. And if this didn't happen, then I have to think  
about whether  this made any overall  difference to Ms H.
The policy wouldve covered  Ms Hs credit card monthly repayments  for up to 12 months if 
she couldnt work. She told us that she wasnt able to depend  on getting any sick pay from 
her employer. And it doesnt look like she had any other  way of making her credit  card 
repayments if she couldnt work. Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money 
problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. So I think Ms H couldve benefitted from the PPI. 
Its possible some of the information  Capital One gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Ms H chose to take out the policy  when she didnt have to and so it 
appears she wanted to have  this type of cover.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Ms Hs case.  So, I dont think having more  information about  things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put her off taking  it out. 
Ref: DRN74684662The policy appears to have been  affordable for Ms H when she signed up for it. She 
wouldve been able to see the monthly  premium for the PPI appearing on her credit card 
statements. As she paid for the policy each month,  she couldve cancelled  the insurance  at 
any time if she didnt want to keep paying for it.   
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Ms H wouldve  made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy. 
This means  I dont  find that Ms H has lost out as a result of anything that Capital One did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  17 October 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7468466