K821x#15complaint
Mr H says that Santander Cards UK Limited  mis-sold him a Balance  Cancelation  Cover  (BCC)   
policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2018, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr H or Santander Cards UK Limited sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject 
my decision  before 22 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a Balance Cancelation Cover (BCC) policy  sold with a credit card in 2007. Mr 
H says Santander Cards UK Limited mis-sold him the BCC.  Ill refer to the business as Santander in 
my decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive currently decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ref: DRN75729862 I think Santander made it clear  that Mr H didnt  have to take out the BCC and that he     chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he might not remember  this.
I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs credit  card application.  Underneath where Mr H has 
digitally signed (this policy was taken out online) his credit agreement, hes also digitally signed  
separately next to a statement that says; I understand that I am purchasing  this product  It 
seems reasonable to assume that if Mr H had not wanted the BCC he could  have left this section 
blank.
Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said about not being told that the cover was included at 
the time. But as Ive already  found, I think that its more  likely than not that Mr H signed to take 
the BCC understanding  that he had a choice. 
Even in a scenario  where Mr H agreed to take out BCC without  realising, I think that hed have 
reasonably questioned  why he was paying for it when it appeared on his credit card statements. 
But theres no evidence that he did question the BCC before he made  his complaint in 2012,  a 
number of years after it was taken out. 
Santander didnt recommend the BCC to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed  to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible  the information Santander gave Mr H about the BCC wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the BCC - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the BCC  cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went  
wrong, partculalry when  Ive considered Mr Hs limited existing means  of making his repayments 
if he was unwell  and unable to work or if he was made unemployed.  It also looks like the BCC 
was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the BCC  would have put him off taking out the cover and 
I dont think that Mr H has lost out because  of anything Santander may have done  wrong. 
Which means  Santander  doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the BCC to Mr H.
But Santander  will pay back some of the cost of the BCC  to Mr H because:  
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the BCC premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr H about that. Because Santander  didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the BCC premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what  hes said about the BCC not paying  out 
when he was made  unemployed.  I havent seen evidence  that Mr H tried to make  a  claim on the 
policy, but if Mr H feels he could have made a claim at any point when he was cover, this is 
something that he can speak to the business about  and the possibility of making a back dated claim  
on the policy. 
Ive also noted what Mr H has said about  having an existing medical condition at the time of sale. This 
policy didnt exclude existing medical  conditions, so this point  doesnt affect my decision.    
So these points dont  change  my decision.
what the business needs to do
Ref: DRN75729863Santander Cards UK Limited has to pay back to Mr H  if it hasnt already done so, any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the BCC premium.  Santander Cards UK Limited 
should also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest he paid because of that.
Santander Cards UK Limited should re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr H the 
difference between what Mr H owes and what he wouldve owed  if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the BCC. Santander Cards UK Limited should also pay Mr H 
8%* simple  interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
The BCC policy wasnt  mis-sold  so Santander Cards  UK Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the BCC to Mr H.
But I do intend to tell Santander Cards UK Limited to pay back to Mr H  if it hasnt already done so, 
any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the BCC premium. 
If Mr H or Santander Cards UK Limited  have anything further to add they should do so by 
18 May 2019 and Ill then reconsider all of the evidence. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7572986