K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the sale of a central  heating insurance policy by British  Gas 
Services Limited. 
background
Mr H held a boiler and central heating insurance policy  with British Gas. In 2014, his boiler 
needed to be replaced. When the policy next came  up for renewal,  Mr H says he phoned 
British Gas to cancel his policy, as he didnt  think he needed  it as the new boiler came with a 
seven year manufacturer guarantee.
 
British Gas offered  to remove  the boiler from the cover and continue with a policy which  
covered the rest of the central heating  system  and a gas fire only.  The policy renewed in 
2016 and again in 2017. However, when  Mr H received  the notice of renewal in early 2018, 
he noticed that it was for a policy that included the boiler and the premium  had gone  up 
again. He also realised this had been  changed  since 2016 and so he had been paying for 
cover he had not wanted and didnt ask for. 
Mr H called British Gas to ask for the policy to continue on the previous  basis and for a 
refund of the additional premiums hed paid for the boiler cover to be refunded. 
British Gas didnt  agree it had done anything wrong. It says it only offered the reduced cover 
for one year and had told Mr H it would  revert back to full cover after that first year, unless he 
contacted it. British Gas also says that it sent out renewal documents to Mr H each year with 
the details of cover and Mr H had never  complained until now. It didnt therefore agree to 
refund the premiums.  However, British  Gas did offer a refund of the part of the premiums   
Mr H had paid that was to cover  the annual service  of the gas fire and boiler for the previous 
two and three years respectively, as these had not taken place. It also offered  £30 for the 
delay in responding to Mr Hs complaint.  The offer was a total of £380.29.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She recommended that it be upheld,  as she 
didnt consider that British Gas had made it sufficiently clear to Mr H, at renewal  that it had 
included the boiler in the cover; and there was not enough evidence that it had made it clear 
that the reduced cover would only last for a year. 
The adjudicator therefore recommend that British gas also refund the part of the premium 
that was for the boiler cover; and that interest  at our usual rate should be added to the 
amounts that were  to be refunded. 
British Gas doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment, so the matter  has been  referred  to 
me. 
British Gas says that it doesnt normally offer a policy that covers only the central heating 
system, all its products include boiler cover. However, it offered Mr H this option  as a 
promotion to him in order to retain  his custom. This offer was for 1 year only following this 
he would  either  need  to contact us when receiving renewal  documents or carry on at the 
higher cover.  Therefore,  as we have sent renewals each year it would be Mr Hs 
responsibility to call us to downgrade or cancel his policy.
Ref: DRN76327922my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling  insurance, including  the renewal of existing policies, have a responsibility  to 
provide clear  information about what is being  provided and any other key information  to 
allow a consumer to make an informed choice about what they are buying. When  a policy  is 
being renewed, we would expect the seller  to make any significant changes  to what is being  
offered clear. 
British Gas says it doesnt usually offer the policy it offered Mr H in the year 2015/2016 and 
only did so as a promotion to retain his business on the understanding  that it would be 
upgraded again the following year. However,  it offered  it to him then and as the adjudicator  
has pointed out, there  is no documentary or other persuasive evidence  that it made  it clear  
to Mr H at the time that this would only be for one year. 
The renewal  documents  provided for the policy year 2015 to 2016  say that Mr H had central 
heating cover only but dont say anything about what will happen at the next renewal, in 
particular that boiler  cover  might be automatically added.  
The documents for the year 2016  to 2017 also say Mr H has central heating cover  on the 
front page  but its not clear from the rest of the documents whether this does  in fact include 
the boiler. Mr H suggests it did and it seems British Gas also think it did. Given the front 
page of those documents, which is the same as the previous year when both parties knew it 
didnt cover the boiler, I dont think there  was anything  that would have alerted Mr H to this 
change. 
The documents for 2017 to 2018 and 2018 to 2019 make it clearer that what is being offered 
is boiler and central  heating system  cover. However, it is not highlighted that this is a change  
to what Mr H had previously. While it is therefore clearer, I am not satisfied that this was 
enough to alert Mr H to the fact it had added on additional cover that he had not asked for. 
The burden should not have been put onto Mr H at that stage to request cover to be 
removed. 
British Gas has said that Mr H should  have contacted it on renewal to downgrade his policy 
again. It seems to me therefore  that it would have continued to provide the reduced cover, if 
Mr H had asked. Given this and that it should have highlighted such a significant change  to 
the cover  in a way that made it clearer to Mr H in 2016 and 2017, I agree that it should 
refund the boiler cover premiums for those years. 
I also agree  that it should refund the payments that were  for the boiler and fire services  
which were not carried  out. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Services Limited and require it to: 
refund  the additional premiums Mr H paid for the annual  services that were not 
carried out (i.e. £350.29) and the additional  premiums for the boiler  cover  paid for the 
policy years  2016/17 and 2017/18,  together  with interest at 8% simple  per annum 
from the date Mr H made each payment to the date of reimbursement;  and 
Ref: DRN76327923pay the £30 already  offered for the delay in responding to the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7632792