K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Vanquis Bank Limited  irresponsibly gave him a credit card. He wants  a refund of 
all interest he paid and his credit file amended.
background
Vanquis said in its final response that its a responsible lender and takes  into account an 
individuals personal circumstances  in order to establish the appropriate level of credit that 
can be granted. It uses credit scoring to do this. The information Mr R gave showed he was 
employed and had no outstanding CCJs. There was a registered default eight months before 
his application.  But everything was within the levels set as part of its lending policy.  Its a 
second chance lender and its products are for those with moderate  means  to give access to 
financial products  that may otherwise be unavailable to them.  After  assessing Mr Rs 
information it offered  an affordable and modest low initial credit limit. It later assisted him 
when his circumstances changed and he was in financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Its up to Vanquis to decide  what checks it carries out. But they should be reasonable 
and proportionate. Here the application was made in August 2014  and there  were  no 
problems until July 2015 when some early  arrears arose. The card was then well 
maintained until November 2015.
When Vanquis granted the card there  was an eight n old default on Mr Rs credit file. 
The default  was taken into account but wasnt enough to stop it issuing the card.  
Theres no rule saying  a bank  cannot lend to a customer with a default registered 
against them.
It wasnt irresponsible of Vanquis  to accept Mr Rs application not least as its a 
second chance lender helping people who may not have great  credit  scores. And he 
will not be asking it to refund any interest  to Mr R or remove  the default from his 
credit file.
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
Vanquis has confirmed  it doesnt think it did anything wrong. It says it gave Mr R a low initial 
limit and didnt increase  it. His card was well maintained for year after he was given it and his 
problems started when his financial circumstances changed. It attempted to support him 
during that time by agreeing payment arrangements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its up to Vanquis to decide  what its lending criteria  are, who it deals with and gives  credit to. 
Those are matters of it making commercial decisions which  we wouldnt normally  interfere 
with. But wed expect  it to carry  out proportionate  checks before giving a customer  a credit  
card. 
Ref: DRN73046642Here I agree  with the investigator  that Vanquis  carried out proportionate and appropriate 
checks. It took account of the information Mr R had given it and what  it knew  about  him 
including about  his credit  score, employment and salary. There was also nothing to show  
hed CCJs recorded  against him. There does appear  to have been  a default recorded  
against him about eight months  before the application. 
Even so the fact that a default had been  recorded doesnt automatically mean Vanquis 
shouldnt have given  Mr R the credit card. As its said it is a second  chance lender providing 
products for those  with moderate means  or less than perfect credit histories, to give access 
to financial products that may otherwise be unavailable to them. 
In this case Mr R satisfied  Vanquis lending criteria and it gave him the credit  card with a 
modest limit of £500. I dont think Vanquis acted irresponsibly in doing so. And it also didnt 
increase this limit over time.
It also appears that the card account was generally  well managed  for about  the first year and 
Mr Rs financial  difficulties only started when  he experienced a change in his circumstances.
Consequently I think it was reasonable for Vanquis  to decide to give Mr R a card and some 
credit as hed requested.  When  Vanquis later became aware of Mr Rs financial difficulties it 
also acted positively and sympathetically when trying to assist him.
Vanquis also has an obligation to ensure the information recorded on Mr Rs credit  file 
accurately reflects  the conduct of his account.
Taking everything into account  I think Vanquis  has acted fairly throughout and I dont think 
its done anything  wrong or irresponsibly. As a result I dont think I can reasonably ask it to 
refund any interest  or amend Mr Rs credit file as hed like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7304664