K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with how Santander UK Plc has treated them  whilst  theyve  been  
in financial difficulties. 
background
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage  with Santander which  they took out in April 2006. It was for 
just under £490,000 and was taken out on an interest-only basis with a 14-year term. The 
interest rate was fixed  at 4.54% until 3 July 2008 and thereafter the account would run on 
Santanders standard variable rate (SVR) for the remainder of the mortgage term. 
The account  went into arrears in January 2009 and the situation worsened over the years. 
In 2010 Mr and Mrs C both entered into IVAs and those ran until March 2015. In that time 
the arrears peaked in October 2014 at a little over £11,200.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs C put their house on the market.  A potential sale fell through in 2017 
and they turned down an offer in January 2018.  I understand they removed their property 
from the market in 2018.
Over the years Mr and Mrs C asked for help, such as for their arrears to be capitalised. 
Santander turned down  their request in 2016 as it said they didnt have a repayment vehicle 
for the interest-only  mortgage. It went on to agree to the capitalisation in 2017 and on 
3 August 2017  arrears of around  £9,500  were capitalised.
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs C moved  their mortgage onto a new product; a variable rate 
which is 2.24% above the Bank  of England  base  rate for 24 months. As Mr and Mrs C had 
less than 24 months left of their overall mortgage  term,  Santander extended the term to 
match; so Mr and Mrs C must now repay  the full mortgage balance at the end of that 
24 month period.
Mr and Mrs C have raised a few complaints over the years,  but for ease weve dealt  with 
them here as one as the matters are interlinked.
Our investigator said Santander  should have capitalised the arrears in February  2016.  He 
said Santander should pay £300  compensation and amend Mr and Mrs Cs credit  files to 
reflect an earlier  capitalisation  date. He initially thought Mr and Mrs C would have applied for 
a new preferential rate in February 2017 but on reflection he decided that they wouldnt have 
proceeded with that. Thats because the monthly  cost saving would have been small when 
set against the potential  £15,000 early repayment charge (ERC) they would incur if a house  
sale had completed.  He also said he thought the information Santander had reported to the 
credit reference agencies was correct (aside  from an admitted error that Santander put right 
in December 2017 relating to the capitalisation).
Santander agreed with everything  apart  from the proposed amendment to the credit file 
information. It said there was no guarantee a capitalisation would have definitely  gone ahead 
in February 2016,  so it thought Mr and Mrs Cs credit files shouldnt  be amended to reflect 
that.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with various aspects. They dont agree with the potential cost 
savings put forward,  or that they wouldnt have  gone ahead with a new product in 2016. 
Ref: DRN72309192They said they removed  their house  from the market in 2018, so it was clear that if 
Santander had offered  a lower rate in February 2017 that would have improved their 
financial position and they would have  removed their house from the market sooner. They 
also dont agree that Santander had historically  reported their payment arrangements  
correctly on their credit files.
As the parties couldnt  reach an agreement its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome.
Our investigator said that the arrears  should have been capitalised  in February 2016. Whilst 
Santander seemed  to agree in theory,  when asked  to then amend Mr and Mrs Cs credit files 
to reflect  that it said there  was no guarantee it would definitely gone ahead. Ive considered 
that point carefully  but Im not persuaded by it. Santander has told us generally its criteria 
would have been that the IVA was finished  and Mr and Mrs C were maintaining a payment 
arrangement. It agrees  they met those two points.  Santander turned  the request down as it 
said Mr and Mrs C didnt have a repayment vehicle in place for the interest-only mortgage.  
But the following  year Santander agreed  to capitalise the arrears with the same  scenario; the 
only repayment vehicle  is the sale of the property at the end of the mortgage term. 
Santander said Mr and Mrs C didnt expressly say that was their repayment vehicle in 
February 2016. Having  looked at everything  I dont think Santander treated Mr and Mrs C 
fairly there. There had been a conversation already about the house being put on the 
market, and Mr and Mrs C had confirmed  an estate agent had been appointed. So it was 
clear they intended  to sell the property, and as this was a secured debt it automatically  
follows that the mortgage would be cleared  when  the property was sold. Santander didnt 
need Mr and Mrs C to expressly say the sale of the property was their repayment vehicle; 
common sense should have prevailed.
Having considered everything  Im satisifed the arrears  should have been capitalised in 
February 2016, and I agee with our investigator that a payment of £300 is due for this 
ommission. I also agree that it follows that Mr and Mrs Cs credit  files should be updated to 
reflect the position their account would be in if the capitalisation had taken effect in 
February 2016, rather than August 2017.
Where a mortgage has an initial interest rate  whether fixed  or tracker  for a limited  period, 
it reverts to the SVR at the end of that period. Thats set out in the mortgage offer, and it is 
how the mortgage is supposed  to work.  Based purely on the terms of the mortgage offer, 
nothing has gone  wrong if the mortgage reverts to the SVR at the end of the product period.
However, most lenders will consider applications  for a new interest  rate product when an old 
one expires. A new interest rate, at any particular level or at all, isnt a contractual right. The 
borrower isnt entitled to one. But where a lender  makes rates  available,  it must treat its 
Ref: DRN72309193customers fairly in deciding whether they can or cant have  a new interest rate. Treating  
customers fairly doesnt necessarily mean treating them the same though. All lenders have 
criteria to decide if a customer  is eligible for a particular interest rate  and Santander  is no 
exception.
Santander uses various factors to decide what rates its willing to offer a borrower. These  
include factors about the loan  such as loan-to-value  and the length of the remaining term. 
And they include factors about  the borrower   such as how the borrower is managing other  
credit as well as the mortgage. In essence, what Santander is doing is deciding  how risky a 
mortgage and its borrower are, and setting  the price its willing to offer based on the 
perceived level of risk. It has a range of rates  and  broadly  the lowest  rates  are available 
to customers with the lowest level of risk.
Santander applied  these criteria to Mr and Mrs C and, based on that, it determined  what 
products they were  eligible  for. Ive looked at what Santander took into account, and I think it 
treated Mr and Mrs C fairly in assessing what rates it was willing to offer them.  Santander 
has looked at what would  have happened if the arrears had been capitalised in 
February 2016 and this shows:
Santanders policy would have prevented any new rate being applied to the account  
before February 2017, and
in February 2017 the only products available to Mr and Mrs C would have been;
oa two-year fixed rate of 3.99%,  which had an ERC for that period.
oa tracker rate which was exactly the same  rate as the SVR and had no ERC.
This means  that even if Santander  had capitalised Mr and Mrs Cs arrears in February 2016 
they would  have had to remain  on the SVR until February 2017, and from then the lowest  
rate available to them  was fixed at 3.99% (against  an SVR that was at that time 4.49%).
Ive looked at what this would have  meant  for Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage payments and can 
see a rate of 3.99% rather  than 4.49% would  have saved them about £200 a month. But 
thats not all I need  to consider. That product came with an ERC that would have equated to 
just under £15,000 if Mr and Mrs C had come out of it early.
Mr and Mrs C had their property on the market at that time, and were clearly  actively  trying  
to sell it (a potential sale fell through in 2017). They say if Santander had agreed  a new rate 
they would  have chosen to not sell their house  at that time but Im not persuaded by that. 
There was a lot more going  on in the background than Ive set out in this decision (to protect 
Mr and Mrs Cs privacy)  and Im satisfied the sale of their house wasnt something they 
simply chose to do. It seems it was action they needed to take to try to not lose their home 
and their separate business. The Santander  call notes show  Mr and Mrs C were still actively  
trying to sell their house in 2017, and one note says they intended to move into the flat that 
was attached to the business  premises when their house was sold.
It seems  this only changed when they closed the business  in early 2018 and lost possession 
of the business premises  (albeit  there  were  ongoing  legal disputes  about that) as that 
broadly coincides  with when Mr and Mrs C told us they took their house off the market.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied a new preferential rate with an ERC wouldnt 
have been appropriate for Mr and Mrs C in February  2017  and so I dont uphold this element 
of their complaint.
Ref: DRN72309194Finally, Mr and Mrs C say Santander historically  provided incorrect  information to the credit  
reference agencies  so their mortgage  didnt correctly reflect  the arrangement to pay theyd 
agreed. Ive looked at the credit file that has been  provided by Mr and Mrs C, and the 
information Santander provided  to the credit  reference agencies. Having done  so Im 
satisfied Santander  provided correct information  about the arrangement  and so I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint. 
my decision
For all of the reasons  Ive set out I uphold  this complaint in part and order Santander UK Plc 
to:
amend Mr and Mrs Cs account so it reflects  an arrears capitalisation  taking place in 
February 2016 rather than August 2017, including  updating the information reported to 
the credit reference agencies  in this respect,  and
pay £300 compensation to Mr and Mrs C.
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7230919