K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains, as a director of QB Clothing Ltd, about the time taken by Advanced  
Payment Solutions Limited, trading as CashPlus to return an international payment.
background
Mr S says a customer of his made a payment of £5,000 to him from Nigeria. He says the 
money didnt appear in his CashPlus account and contacted  it to find out what had 
happened. He says CashPlus said it would send  the money back  to the account in Nigeria 
but didnt. Mr S says he made a number of calls to CashPlus and was misled  by it and lied 
to. He says he was promised proof that the payment had been returned  but didnt receive it. 
Mr S says his customer cancelled the contract worth  nearly £3,000,000  and would like at 
least £1,200,000 compensation.
CashPlus says it couldnt process the payment as the money was sent from a county  that it 
doesnt accept  payments  from and that information is made clear to its customers. It says it 
received the money but couldnt accept it and told Mr S that. CashPlus accepts it didnt start 
the process to return the money when  it shouldve which meant  there was delay of about a 
month in returning  the money. Its offered £250 compensation but says its not responsible 
for the lost contract.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  overall the offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. He thought CashPlus  had told Mr S the money had 
been returned when in fact it hadnt  but thought  this was likely to have been a mistake rather 
than a deliberate  attempt  to mislead Mr S. The investigator accepted Mr S had been 
promised proof that the payment had been  returned  but that wasnt  sent.  He looked at 
CashPluss account  terms and conditions and thought its responsibility for loss was limited to 
the amount in an account and that it wasnt foreseeable that Mr Ss customer would cancel 
the contract.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says he was misled and it doesnt matter  if this was 
deliberately or not. He also says his customer cancelled the contract as he thought he was 
being defrauded by him.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
conclusion that CashPlus  has made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. I realise  Mr 
S will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no doubt here that CashPlus  made a mistake by not returning  the money to the 
account in Nigeria  when  it shouldve and that it told Mr S it had done  so when it hadnt. Ive 
no doubt Mr S wouldve  been frustrated in his attempts to find out what was going on and 
can see that it took an extra month for this money  to be returned.  Im sure Mr Ss customer 
would also have been concerned. But Im satisfied CashPlus has now apologised  for what  
happened and made what I think is a fair and reasonable offer of compensation.
I also think that Mr S ought to have known that CashPlus didnt accept payments from 
Nigeria as Im satisfied  that information is prominently displayed within the account terms 
and conditions and product information.  And I think as a result  of using CashPlus there 
would have been a delay  of about a month in any event for the money  to be returned.  
Ref: DRN78714252I appreciate Mr S says as a result of what happened his customer cancelled the contract. 
But Ive not seen any evidence about  that cancellation or the reasons for doing  so. And I 
have to consider  that the customer  may have cancelled the contract  before the delay in any 
event. Overall Im satisfied that those issues and any consequential  loss are not matters  I 
can fairly decide upon or are appropriate  to be dealt with by this service.
Overall Im satisfied CashPlus has made  a fair and reasonable offer of compensation and I 
cant fairly ask it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as CashPlus has 
made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. QB Clothing Ltd acceptance of that offer 
would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7871425