K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that after she called  on British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI)  under her 
home emergency insurance policy, its agents provided poor service in respect  of a water 
stop tap culminating in its leaking and flooding her kitchen.
background
Since 2013, Mrs G has had a number  of problems with her water  stop tap in her kitchen. She 
called on BGI under  her policy with it. Its agents attended and dealt with the various  issues.  
It appears that Mrs G used the stop tap as an on/off tap to control the water supply to her 
outside garden tap. In December 2016,  BGIs  agents replaced the stop tap with a lever  type 
stop tap to make this easier.
In April 2018, the stop tap leaked, causing  flooding in her kitchen. This took Mrs G, who is 
elderly, some time to clear up and caused  both her and her infant grandson  distress. BGIs 
agents attended again. They stopped the leak; their worksheet reads:
leak on iso in kitchen tightened  tested  OK.
Mrs G complained to BGI. She said its agents workmanship had been poor and asked BGI 
to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she had suffered.
BGI didnt  accept her complaint. It said a stop tap wasnt designed to be used in the way  
Mrs G was using it  as an on/off tap to control the water supply to her outside  tap. This 
would cause excessive  wear for which it wasnt responsible. It said the leak in April 2018 
wasnt caused by any work carried out by its agents.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said the leak in 
April 2018 seemed to be caused by her misuse  of the stop tap rather  than poor workmanship 
by BGIs agents. So he couldnt hold BGI responsible for the flooding that resulted.
Mrs G responded to say, in summary, that:
she hadnt misused the stop tap. BGIs  agents knew  how she was using the stop tap 
before they fitted the new stop tap in December 2016;
it was bad workmanship  by BGIs  agents that caused it to fail, not the way she was 
using it; and
since April 2018 she hadnt  had any problems with the stop tap, which  was working 
well controlling the supply of water  to her garden  tap.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from BGIs records that Mrs G had problems with her stop tap for a number of 
years, certainly from 2013 onwards. BGIs  agents attended and repaired the stop tap a 
number of times. In December 2016 they fitted  a new lever  type stop tap. I accept Mrs Gs 
evidence that they knew the way she was using her stop tap, and this replacement  was fitted 
to make such use easier.
Ref: DRN71031332After that, Mrs G doesnt seem to have had any further problems for some 18 months  until 
the stop tap leaked in April 2018.  BGIs agents  attended and stopped the leak.  From their job 
sheet I have quoted above,  it doesnt seem  any repair or replacement  of the stop tap was 
needed. It simply needed to be tightened. After testing, it worked properly, and has 
continued to work since then.
I understand that Mrs G was upset at the flooding caused in April 2018. However given that 
the stop tap had worked without problems for 18 months after being fitted, and has worked 
properly since then,  I cant say theres sufficient evidence of poor workmanship by BGIs 
agents. So I cant say BGI should compensate Mrs G for the flooding  that occurred.
BGIs agents  have  confirmed to us that they didnt tell Mrs G that she was using the tap 
incorrectly. So it seems that BGI was mistaken  in telling  Mrs G that this was the case.
It isnt clear why the stop tap should  have loosened in April 2018 after 18 months trouble free 
use. Its most unfortunate  that it resulted in Mrs Gs kitchen  being flooded.  But I dont think it 
would be reasonable to require BGI to compensate  her for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2018.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7103133