K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that the vehicle she acquired through  finance  supplied by Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT  Financial  Services  (VWFS) was not of 
satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background 
Miss R tells us she acquired  the vehicle, as new, in April 2018  from a dealer Ill refer to as 
M. She informs us that she started to experience  problems with the vehicle shortly 
afterwards. In particular,  Miss R refers to a suspension issue and the windscreen wipers  not 
working. She said she asked to reject the vehicle  in May 2018 but this wasnt accepted by 
VWFS or M. And when the USB port failed, some  months later,  she says she again 
requested to reject the vehicle.
VWFS told us that it did not become aware  of the issues with the windscreen wiper  and 
suspension faults until after Miss R had given  permission for the faults to be repaired. It felt 
that having authorised repairs - which had been  successfully  carried out - she couldnt reject  
the vehicle. It said the USB fault had occurred outside of the six months following supply and 
was repaired under warranty. VWFS said it had previously made offers  - accepted by Miss R 
- to repay one monthly payment and an extra £125 in respect of the earlier  issues.  But it said 
it was prepared to make a further  offer - of one monthly payment plus £100  - totalling 
£350.95 to recognise the inconvenience  resulting from the vehicle issues.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She found  the vehicle 
had experienced faults but thought that rejection  of the vehicle due to the wiper problem 
might be considered disproportionate. She said VWFS hadnt become aware of the fault with 
the suspension until after it had been  repaired. And that the USB fault had been reported  
more than six months after supply - so wouldnt usually  be the responsibility of VWFS. She 
thought the various offers of compensation made by VWFS were fair.
Miss R didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss R has experienced some  problems with this vehicle. Im sure when she 
acquired a new vehicle she was hoping for an extended period of trouble free motoring. So I 
can see why she will have been disappointed  that these issues have arisen.
In reaching my decision I dont apply  the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And 
relevant legislation here includes  the Consumer Rights Act, 2015 (CRA). As the supplier  of 
both the vehicle and finance  under  a hire purchase  agreement VWFS is responsible for the 
vehicle being  of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And as this was a new vehicle it 
should have been free from even minor defects. 
Ref: DRN78863282In summary,  the CRA gives the consumer - in certain circumstances  - the right to reject an 
item or have it repaired if faults arise which show the item was not of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied. Its presumed that a fault which arises within six months  of supply is present 
at the point of supply  - unless its proved otherwise. But if a consumer accepts a repair - and 
that is successful - they cannot then exercise the right to reject  about the same fault.
I agree  with our investigator that recommending  the vehicle be rejected  - based  on the 
windscreen wiper failure alone - would probably  be disproportionate. And whilst Miss R did 
at first ask to reject the vehicle, I can see from notes  recorded on 15 May 2018 that she then 
appears to have accepted to have a monthly  payment refunded. I think that was a fair 
resolution of this issue.
Notes indicate that Miss R contacted VWFS on 31 October  to report the fault with the USB.
At this time she also mentioned the issue with the suspension  and the earlier fault with the 
windscreen wipers and repeated her wish to reject  the vehicle.
Ive been supplied with details of a repair to the suspension carried  out in September 2018 - 
although I accept  this issue may have been raised  with M before this stage. And it appears 
the repair itself was not carried  out by M but by a different authorised  SEAT  garage.
But as the vehicle suspension  had already  been  repaired  when the USB fault was reported - 
which was more than six months after supply - I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of 
me to find that VWFS did anything wrong in not accepting rejection of the vehicle at this 
stage . And the USB port was later repaired, in November, under  warranty.
In summary,  I find there have been faults  with the vehicle  and I understand  Miss R found  
herself in a difficult position in having to choose  between trying to reject the vehicle (with the 
potential inconvenience  of being  without a vehicle whilst the agreement  was unwound) or 
accepting repairs and compensation. But as VWFS only became aware of the repairs  after 
they had been completed  it would not be fair and reasonable to say it had done anything  
wrong in not accepting rejection of the vehicle. 
As far as Im aware the various  repairs have proved successful and I think the level of 
compensation offered by VWFS  is fair and reasonable  to reflect  the inconvenience 
experienced by Miss R.
So Im not asking VWFS to do anything additional to that which  its already  offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint but only in part.
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as SEAT Financial Services has made 
an offer to pay £350.95 compensation  (in addition to compensation previously  paid) for 
inconvenience caused to Miss R. I think  this is a fair and reasonable resolution of this 
complaint.
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT 
Financial Services should pay £350.95 to Miss R for distress  and inconvenience caused by   
the loss of use and taking  the vehicle for repairs.
Ref: DRN78863283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7886328