K820x#14The complaint
Mr and Mrs C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out the policy with a loan in 2000 which was secured against their home.  
They paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C and Halifax agree that the policy was sold during a meeting. During that 
meeting, Halifax shouldve taken reasonable steps  to make Mr and Mrs C aware they had a 
choice about buying the policy.  Mr and Mrs C say they werent aware  of the policy. 
I dont know what was said about the PPI in any discussions Mr and Mrs C had with Halifax.  
But Halifax  has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs loan agreement. On the agreement there is 
a section about the PPI. Here it asks if applicants  want Personal Loan  Repayments 
Insurance (which was Halifaxs name for PPI)  and there is an option to select yes or no. 
Yes has been selected on Mr and Mrs Cs form and Mr C signed  the section in agreement.  
If Mr and Mrs C didnt want the policy, he could  have selected the no box. 
So, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs C aware  they had a choice about  buying 
the policy. And they chose to take it. 
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to make sure the policy 
was right for them  especially Mr C as the policy was in his sole name.  I think  it was right for     
Mr and Mrs C  based on his circumstances. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy
There was nothing  to stop Mr C claiming the full benefit of the policy  if he needed  too - 
such as any known  health issues or unusual  employment arrangements.  
Mr C says he would  have got six months full sick pay benefits from his employer. The 
PPI would  have  covered  his loan repayments  for up to 12 months if he was made 
redundant. And for up to 60 months  if he was too unwell  to work. This is more  than he 
would have  received from his employer and it wouldve  allowed him to use any employer 
benefits to cover  other everyday  living  expenses. 
Ref: DRN79468882It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs C had any other means to make the loan repayments  
such as savings   so I think the policy  couldve been useful  to them.  
They were  taking  on a significant  and long-term financial commitment, which  was secured  
on their home. So, the effects of not keeping up with the repayments could have been 
serious for them.   And I think having  the security that the loan repayments  could  have 
been made  if Mr C was unable to work  would have been important to Mr and Mrs C. 
The cost of the policy was shown  on the loan agreement. So, I think Mr and Mrs C 
would have  understood how much  they would need to pay for it. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs C couldnt  afford the monthly  payments. And they 
could have  cancelled  the PPI at any time,  without  further cost, if their situation changed 
or they no longer wanted it. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs C, Halifax  shouldve  also taken steps 
to give them clear information about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted it. I dont 
know what steps Halifax took to do this and its possible some  things  werent explained as 
clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer  information would have changed            
Mr and Mrs Cs decision. I think they would still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I 
think the PPI was suitable for Mr C.  
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs C have  lost out from anything Halifax might have done 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7946888