K821x#15Complaint
Mrs T, represented  by a third party, complains  that the hire purchase  agreement (HPA) she 
entered into with Black  Horse Limited  was unaffordable.
Background
Mrs T entered into a HPA with Black Horse  in May 2016 to acquire a caravan. She says that 
she only agreed to acquire the new caravan as she was put under pressure from the broker  
in regard to the situation  with her previous caravan which she part exchanged as part of the 
transaction. She says that after viewing  the caravan and being  told the price she said that 
they wouldnt be able to get finance  for the amount but the broker said he would  sort it. He 
then said that he had the finance and Mrs T says she wasnt  given time to review the 
documents. She says she didnt realise  until after signing  the HPA that it was just in her 
name.
Mrs T says that before acquiring the caravan she wasnt  asked for any information  about her 
income and expenditure and that and that she could  not afford the repayments.  She says 
that she made the payments for a number  of months  because  she was worried  about what 
would happen  if these werent  made, but that this wasnt  sustainable. She provided evidence 
to show that her income was less than the amount provided to Black Horse.
Black Horse  says that Mrs T approached  it at end of April 2016 for finance.  At this time, it 
was told Mrs T had been retired for three  years  and was a homeowner. It says it was told 
she had an annual income of £20,000 and after looking at her credit  search  she had monthly  
credit commitments  of £253  and living costs of £295. It says that the broker had confirmed 
that the information provided was given  by Mrs T. It says based  on the information provided 
Mrs T met its lending criteria.
Black Horse  says Mrs T signed  the HPA on 7 May 2016, a few days  after the application,  
which meant that she had had a chance to review the agreement. It says it has been told 
Mrs T has had full use of the goods. It noted  that Mrs T had maintained her payments up to 
the date of her complaint and didnt  accept it had lent irresponsibly.  It did say that a cheque  
for £50 would be sent to Mrs Ts account  in recognition of any distress she had been 
caused.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. They thought that Black Horse  had carried  out 
proportionate checks and that based  on these it was reasonable that the finance was 
provided.
Mrs T didnt  accept our investigators view.  She reiterated that she hadnt  provided 
information about her income and expenditure and that the numbers provided by the broker  
didnt come from her. She said our investigator  had said that the broker had lost the records 
relevant for her transaction which she didnt accept should be the case as back  ups should  
have been available. She also said that the broker had provided other factually incorrect  
information.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN78263622Mrs T signed  the HPA and agreed to its terms and conditions.  The HPA clearly  shows  
that it is in Mrs Ts name and the repayments and other financial details were clearly set 
out.
Had Mrs T felt pressured into signing and then realised that the HPA wasnt as she had 
expected she had the right to withdraw from the agreement. This didnt happen  and it 
wasnt until 2018 that Mrs T raised her concerns. Given  this I didnt find that I had 
enough evidence  to say a misrepresentation has occurred.
The second part of Mrs Ts complaint  was that the lending  was unaffordable. Mrs Ts 
HPA application  was automatically accepted and so further  checks werent carried out. I 
accepted that the credit check may not have raised concerns and that based on the 
information provided by the broker the disposable  income  was enough to cover the 
monthly repayment costs  of £445, although  I noted additional costs of caravan  
ownership such as site fees werent included.
The HPA was for a ten-year period  and the total amount payable  was over £50,000 (after  
the deposit payment). The monthly repayments  accounted for over 30% of Mrs Ts 
monthly income put forward  to Black Horse.  Given Mrs Ts circumstances along with the 
size and term of the loan I would have expected Black Horse to have carried  out further 
verification of the income and expenses  to ensure  that the HPA was sustainably 
affordable over the term.
Had this happened, Black Horse would have realised that Mrs Ts income was much 
lower than had been  presented. Mrs T was receiving pension income of around £310  
into her sole account  and a weekly payment of around £100 a week  into her joint 
account. This totalled a monthly income  amount of around £750 rather than the £1,391  
Black Horse had recorded. Deducting  the expenses from this would have shown  the 
HPA wasnt affordable. Given Mrs T was retired I didnt find there  would be an 
expectation of her income significantly increasing  over the ten-year  term. Therefore, I 
found that had proportionate checks taken place, specifically  to verify Mrs Ts income 
and expenses, Black Horse would have realised that the HPA repayments werent 
affordable.
I found it reasonable that the HPA was cancelled with nothing  further  owing and said Mrs 
Ts deposit payment  of £10,700  should  be refunded along  with interest. I noted Mrs T 
had use of the caravan and also that she contacted Black Horse  in June 2018 about the 
HPA not being affordable. 
Given the circumstances of this complaint I found it fair that Mrs T was liable for her 
payments up to December 2018 only. Any payments  made from that date should be 
refunded. I also found it reasonable  that Black Horse covered the consequential costs of the 
caravan from December 2018 onwards  (subject to details being  provided). This meant that it 
should refund any payments Mrs T made for consequential  costs such  as site fees from 
December 2018  onwards  or acted to settle  any outstanding liabilities regarding these costs.
This situation caused Mrs T a lot of stress.  As I found the lending wasnt affordable I thought 
this stress could have  been avoided had appropriate  checks taken place. Because  of this I 
thought it fair that Black Horse paid Mrs T £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Neither party had any further evidence to add following my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN78263623My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I thought that given the term of the HPA and the 
amount Mrs T was paying  that further  checks should  have been  carried out to establish 
whether the repayments were sustainably affordable.  Had these happened Black Horse  
would have realised  that this wasnt the case and that the HPA was unaffordable.
Because no further evidence has been provided, my decision hasnt changed, and I find that 
Black Horse  should take the actions set out below to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Black Horse  Limited  should:
1.cancel Mrs Ts HPA with nothing further owing;
2.ensure Mrs T is no longer liable for any site fees or other cost associated with the 
caravan;
3.refund  Mrs T her deposit of £10,700;
4.refund  Mrs T any payments she has made  from December 2018;
5.refund  any consequential costs of the caravan from December 2018  onwards (subject  to 
details being provided). This means  that it refunds any payments Mrs T has made  for 
consequential costs  from December  2018 such as site fees or acts to settle  any 
outstanding liabilities regarding  these  costs;
6.pay Mrs T £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she has been caused; 
and
7.remove any adverse information  regard the HPA from Mrs Ts credit file.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Black Horse  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN78263624Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826362