K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that EQUIFAX  LIMITED  recorded details of a family members accounts  on 
his credit file.
background
Mr B says that he signed up to Equifax to see his credit file and noticed  that another  family 
members details were showing on his file. He says he told the family  member who was also 
unaware of this and that this led to a family  dispute.  
Mr B says the information relating to the family member was affecting  his credit rating and 
that this issue has affected his mental  and physical  health.  He is concerned  about  how 
another person had access to his personal information and says he was going  to contact the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) about this.
Equifax says that Mr B contacted it on 1 August about a family members  data appearing on 
his credit file. It says it spoke to him on 2 August  and confirmed that a Notice  of 
Disassociation needed to be actioned between Mr B and the family  member. In its final 
response letter dated 3 August, Equifax said that the required action  had been  taken.  It also 
acknowledged Mr Bs comments  about the distress and inconvenience he had been caused 
and offered to pay him £500  compensation because  of this.
Our adjudicator said that given how quickly Equifax acted she did not think  that the 
compensation offer needed  to be increased.
Mr B did not accept our adjudicators view. He reiterated that the issue had caused a family  
dispute and said that he had suffered depression for along time and the view made this 
worse. He said the wrong details had been  on his credit file for over ten years which  affected  
his ability  to get credit. He did not accept that £500 was enough given all the upset he had 
been caused.
Equifax accepted our adjudicators view and added further information. It said that following 
the correction  of Mr Bs credit file his credit  score was fair. It said he had recently opened  
two accounts  but it didnt  believe  these  were opened  due to the family members  details 
being removed  as credit checks  were  not carried out on his file by the credit providers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B noticed  that a family  members information was recorded  on his credit file and raised 
this with Equifax.  Equifax contacted Mr B the next day to set out what  needed to happen to 
remove the incorrect information from both Mr Bs credit file and also Mr Bs information from 
the family  members credit file. This was actioned on that day and the information  was 
removed following the 24 hour processing period.
Equifax sent its final response upholding Mr Bs complaint  and offering him £500 
compensation. I understand the compensation was paid to Mr B in December 2018.
Ref: DRN75461572Equifax acted quickly to correct the issue once it was made  aware of it. By correcting Mr Bs 
credit file and removing his data from the family members credit file, Equifax has put Mr B 
back in the position he would have  been  had the issue not arisen. The outstanding issue  is 
whether the £500 compensation is reasonable given the trouble an upset Mr B was caused.
Mr B has said that he has struggled to get credit  over the years  which  he says is due to the 
issues with his credit file. I understand why Mr B is upset that the family  members 
information was on his credit file and his concerns about the impact this could have had on 
his ability  to gain credit. However based  on the credit report provided from July 2018  it 
shows that Mr B has a historic defaulted account.  I also note that the accounts associated  
with the family member  are all shown as being  up to date.  
Mr B hasnt provided any further details to shows that he has suffered a financial loss due to 
the incorrect information and based  on what I have seen I do not find that I can say the 
incorrect information would be the only reason why Mt B may have struggled to access  
credit.
I appreciate that when  the issue was identified it caused  a family dispute. However, Equifax 
acted quickly to resolve the issue once it was made aware of it. I sympathise with Mr B in 
regard to the family issues  he is experiencing and understand that these have caused him 
health issues. However I think that the compensation  paid by Equifax of £500 is reasonable. 
I say this because  I do not have any evidence  to show that the issue caused Mr B any 
financial loss and while it did cause him trouble and upset I think Equifax has offered enough 
given its role in this and the actions it took.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7546157