K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Mrs W says Canada Square  Operations  Limited  mis-sold  her the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg, but Canada Square  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Canada  Square in my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs W applied  for her credit card and PPI online  she says she didnt know  that the PPI 
was optional, and she didnt know she had purchased the policy.  She says it mustve been  
added to her account automatically. 
Canada Square  provided information about  its online  sales  process, which  has shown that 
Mrs W wouldve  been presented with two options - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were 
equally prominent, and Mrs W wouldve had to select an option before she could complete 
her application.  Neither option was presented in a way that would suggest that taking or not 
taking PPI would influence being approved for the credit card,  and I havent seen anything  to 
show that Canada  Square did anything differently with Mrs W. 
So with this in mind, I think its likely Canada Square  made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she doesnt 
remember this as it was so long ago.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it could have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Canada  Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W 
about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN78308852To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said including what shes  said about having sick 
pay from her employer  that she couldve used to make her repayments, and that the cost of 
the policy was high compared to the benefit she couldve gained from it.
But the PPI couldve  paid out on top of and for longer than Mrs W has told us she had cover 
for. And the cost for the policy was around average for PPI, and linked to the amount Mrs W 
had spent on her card  and couldve paid out 10% of her balance  for up to 12 months per 
claim if shed needed  to make one. So these  points dont change  my decision, and for the 
reasons set out above, I dont uphold  think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7830885