K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system meant he had limited  access  to 
his bank account. He believes he lost out as a result  of this.
background
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  (copied  below). I explained I had carefully 
considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments from the outset,  in order to decide 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken into account relevant 
regulatory rules as well as the law and good  industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint and to issue  instructions  to 
TSB to put things  right in terms of the call costs Mr A said he had incurred, and in terms of 
the overall trouble and upset he had experienced. However, I explained I wasnt  minded to 
make any award for the loss Mr A said hed incurred in his stock-broking activity or time 
away from his self-employed role.
Mr A has responded to my provisional  decision. He has noted that my provisional decision 
states that information provided by TSB suggests he hadnt  used  the account in question to 
finance his trading account for a long period of time prior to the IT system issues.  As such, it 
appeared unlikely there  was a direct  link between  access  issues to this account and losses 
relating to Mr As stock-broking activity.
In response to this point,  Mr A has said that he transfers money between accounts via his 
current account. I accept  this would be necessary in order  to use his savings account to 
finance his trading account. But the transaction history on Mr As current  account from late 
2016 to April 2018 (when TSB first experienced system issues) doesnt show  this activity  - 
hence my findings  in my provisional decision.
Mr A has also provided a current account statement  showing  two transactions of £1,000 
(one incoming from his savings account, and one outgoing to pay a credit card bill) that took 
place on the same day in October 2018.  He says this shows  that he uses his current account 
in the manner he has described.  But this is some months after the IT system issues in 
question.
In any case, Mr As pattern of using  his accounts  was only one reason given in my 
provisional decision for not finding  TSB responsible  for any financial loss relating to his 
stock-broking activity.  As I set out, I also think Mr A couldve  done more to mitigate  any loss, 
and it wouldve been reasonable to expect him to do so. And this is sufficient reason not to 
uphold this element  of Mr As complaint, regardless of his pattern of using his accounts.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, along with the new evidence that has 
been submitted,  I have  reached the same decision as before, and for the same reasons.
Neither party has provided any further  evidence  to consider. The deadline  for further  
submissions has now passed. So I am upholding this complaint, and instructing TSB to put 
things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN73907712my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr A £200 for the trouble and 
inconvenience he has experienced,  as well as £100  in respect of call charges he says hes 
incurred. TSB can deduct any payment already made to Mr A from this sum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73907713copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A is unhappy  that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system meant he had limited access  to his bank 
account. He believes  he lost out as a result of this.
background
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. As a result,  I understand Mr A was 
unable to access his online  account  for some weeks.
Mr A has told us that prior to the problems with his account  he was involved in stock-broking  activity 
and had open  positions when the IT problem  occurred. He says that, as a result of being unable to 
access his online account, he was unable to transfer funds of £5,000 to his trading account to cover  
the margins  on his open positions. He says that his broker therefore  liquidated his positions, resulting 
in a loss of approximately £2,850.  Mr A believes  TSB should cover this £2,850. 
Mr A has also told us he lost out on income  that wouldve been generated from his self-employed role, 
due to taking time away from work  to make calls to TSB, as well as calls made  after work hours. He 
has also told us he incurred call charges for these calls of approximately  £100 - £150.
 
Mr A has also highlighted the trouble and upset the account  problems caused him, in terms of 
concern about his financial  position and the inconvenience of not having access to funds, which he 
says were needed to fund living expenses for him and his family. He has also told us that he was 
unable to transfer  money  to family members  living  abroad, forcing  them  to borrow money elsewhere.
In addition, Mr A has explained that he spent a significant amount of time trying to contact TSB via 
telephone and email, but that he was kept on hold for lengthy periods before the calls were terminated 
with no answer.  Mr A has said the overall experience led to worry  and unhappiness, as well as 
causing him to suffer from insomnia due to stress, and he has requested compensation for all these  
issues too.
Our investigator reviewed Mr As case and agreed that he had been inconvenienced as a result  of 
TSBs IT system issues. In recognition of the difficulties Mr A had experienced, our investigator 
initially recommended that TSB pay Mr A £400 compensation.
Mr A didnt think this was enough compensation. TSB also provided some further information  relating 
to Mr As account that showed there was no history in the previous two years of using his TSB 
account to finance his trading account.  Our investigator then revised her recommendation and asked 
TSB to pay £200 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset Mr A had experienced due to being 
unable to access his account and other  associated inconvenience. Our investigator didnt hold TSB 
responsible for any losses arising from Mr As stock-broking activity or make an award for any other 
direct financial loss.
TSB accepted  this recommendation but Mr A didnt  and instead  asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. As such, the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by considering Mr As financial  loss. Mr A believes he is entitled  to compensation  for losses 
related to his stock-broking activity, but Im not persuaded  there is a direct chain of causation between 
Mr As limited  online access to his TSB account and the loss he says hes incurred due to the 
liquidation of his positions. 
Ref: DRN73907714Firstly, I think  Mr A couldve done more  to mitigate any loss. As our investigator has pointed  out, Mr A 
appears to have had an opportunity to transfers the funds earlier in the day  before  the access  
problems occurred  had he wished to do so. This seems relevant given  the rapidly changing 
investment environment  that Mr A has described, and the time-sensitive nature of the request from his 
broker. However, it doesnt  appear  that Mr A attempted  to do this.
Alternatively, once the access problems occurred, Mr A couldve  visited a branch to make a transfer. I 
accept that Mr A has said this wouldve been difficult because of his working hours, but given the 
sums of money  involved,  I think this wouldve  been a reasonable step to take.
Secondly, its not clear  that Mr A wouldve used  his TSB account to credit his trading account  in any 
case, regardless of the access problems. I do sympathise with Mr As position  as I accept it is very 
difficult to prove this kind of intention. But I can only make decisions  based on the evidence that is 
presented to me. And Mr As TSB account doesnt  show any evidence of transactions  of this nature in 
previous years, so I cant  say this wouldve  been  typical usage  for him.
As such, Im not making an award for financial loss related to Mr As stock-broking  activity. I know Mr 
A will be disappointed by this, but I hope my explanation has helped  him understand why Ive reached 
this decision.
Ive also thought  about  other financial  loss that Mr A may have  incurred. Our investigator made  no 
award for this, but Mr A has recently provided further details. Ive discussed this below.
Mr A has told us he spent between £100-£150 on pay-as-you-go top ups for his mobile  phone  in order 
to make calls to TSB. Hes calculated this sum based on a standard £0.30  per minute call charge for 
all UK mobiles and landlines as set out in his telephone providers terms and conditions.  Hes also 
told us he has no evidence of this, as he no longer uses pay-as-you-go, and he no longer has any of 
his previous top-up cards. 
Given the absence of evidence, in fairness to the business, Ive relied  on the lower of the two figures  
that Mr A has provided  - £100.  Using this figure and the call charge per minute, I can see this equates 
to just over five and a half hours of calls, which seem to me to be a reasonable estimate based on 
what else I know of this case. So Im minded to ask TSB to refund Mr A £100 to reflect  his call 
charges.
Mr A has told us he lost out on income  that wouldve been  generated from his self-employed role, due 
to taking time away from work to make calls to TSB, which he approximates at £300,  based on an 
hourly rate of £13-£15 per hour. He has also told us he values his time lost to making  calls after work  
at roughly £100, based  on an hourly  rate of £10 per hour. However, Im not intending to make an 
award for financial loss in relation to this. Firstly,  I note that these  calculations  equate to overall time 
spent on calls of 30 hours or more, which  doesnt tally with Mr As call charges  estimate of five and a 
half hours, as discussed above. Nor does 30 hours seem  like a likely  estimation of time spent, based 
on the evidence Ive seen  in this case. 
Also, given the five and a half hours of calls Ive said Im minded to accept, it seems this couldve 
been done out of work time  as Mr A has told us he believes it wouldve  been possible for him to 
spend up to ten hours of his free time making  calls. So Im not minded to make any award for missed 
work time. And any time Mr A spent making calls in his spare time after work  isnt linked to a direct 
financial loss. As such, Ive incorporated compensation for this into the overall award Im making  for 
trouble and upset, as discussed below.
All parties acknowledge that Mr A was unable  to access his account  online for a significant  period of 
time, which wouldve been  inconvenient for him. And, as previously discussed, I do think  Mr A spent  a 
notable amount of time attempting to contact  TSB to resolve the issue. Hes reported difficulties 
getting through by telephone, and this tallies with what we know was happening to customers  trying to 
contact TSB at that time. He also contacted TSB with a number of written communications, and 
Ref: DRN73907715received very little response. And I accept what Mr A has told us about the general worry  and 
frustration he experienced  as a result.
So I agree Mr A is due some  compensation as a result of all these  issues. Having reviewed all the 
evidence available, I agree with our investigator that £200 is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation in this case. 
For clarity, Mr A has also told us that he was unable to transfer money to family members  living 
abroad, forcing them to borrow money  elsewhere.  He says this was humiliating for his family 
members, and he has requested £100 compensation for this point specifically. However,  whilst I 
sympathise with Mr As family members, I cant make  an award for distress  or inconvenience 
experienced by a third party. And Mr As personal  distress arising  from watching  his family members  
experience is included in the £200 award mentioned above.
I know Mr A believes he is entitled to considerably more compensation, but this decision has been 
reached having carefully considered all available  evidence in this specific case, and in the context of a 
wider understanding of the amount of compensation we would typically  award in cases of a similar 
nature. However, if Mr A disagrees with this finding, he is entitled to reject my decision and to pursue  
the matter through other channels, should he wish to do so.
my provisional  decision
I intend  uphold this complaint and ask TSB Bank plc to pay Mr A £200 for the trouble  and 
inconvenience he has experienced,  as well as £100  in respect  of call charges he says hes incurred.  
TSB can deduct any payment already  made to Mr A from this sum.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390771