K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2005 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs V if they couldnt work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs V disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Vs case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended  the policy  to 
Mr and Mrs V, so the key question I need  to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs V information  that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put them  in a position where they could make an informed choice about the 
insurance they were  buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs V are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have  done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs V say they dont remember PPI being  discussed during the mortgage application 
process, and they didnt  realise it had been added to their account. The difficulty I have is 
that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs V and Nationwide when the 
policy was taken out. 
But Ive reviewed the paperwork from the time of Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage application. I can 
see that they were  given  a quote for the PPI, and that their mortgage offer included a section 
headed Optional Insurance . The PPI was listed as one of the insurances  that Mr and Mrs V 
had chosen to buy.
So without anything  else to support  what Mr and Mrs V have told me, I havent been  able to 
safely conclude that Nationwide didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN79964012The policy cost was set out in the quote  that Nationwide sent to Mr and Mrs V, and their 
mortgage offer. So I think they wouldve known how much they would be paying for the 
cover and found it acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely they would  have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Mr and Mrs V satisfied  the eligibility  requirements of the policy  when taking it out. 
Mrs V has told us she had a number of medical conditions when she took out the PPI, so 
she might  not have been able to make a successful disability claim on the policy  in 
connection with those conditions. 
But the policys exclusion for existing medical  conditions only applied during the first twelve  
months that the policy was in place. So Mrs V couldve  still claimed  in connection with her 
medical conditions  after the first twelve months.  Given the long-term  nature of the mortgage, 
I dont think Mr and Mrs V wouldve  made a different decision about the policy  if theyd had 
better information about how the exclusion for pre-existing  medical  conditions  worked. 
Mr and Mrs V say they were entitled to sick pay if they couldnt work because of sickness  or 
accident, and that they had some savings.
But as Ive already said,  I dont  think Nationwide  advised Mr and Mrs V on whether or not to 
take the PPI. So it wouldnt  have had to check whether their existing arrangements meant 
the policy was suitable for them. Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Vs 
sick pay and savings  means the PPI policy was mis-sold.
In summary,  I think Mr and Mrs V agreed  to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given  it provided  broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would  have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V
 to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7996401