K821x#15Complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly  continued 
applying increasing  amounts  of charges to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought Halifax  should have realised 
that Mr Hs overdraft had become  unsustainable  for him in May 2014  and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Hs overdraft from this point. Halifax 
disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
increased Mr Hs overdraft  in May 2014.  By this point, it ought to have  been  clear that Mr H 
was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay what he owed  and the extra Halifax  was 
agreeing to advance within a reasonable period of time. 
By this stage Mr H was making his fourth request  for increased  borrowing in a matter  of 
weeks. And his statements during this period also showed increased amounts of money  
being gambled. In these  circumstances,  it ought to have been apparent Mr H was unlikely to 
be able to repay what he already owed within a reasonable period let alone additional 
borrowing with overdraft  interest, fees and associated charges continuously being added. 
Ive thought about the credits Halifax has referred to and what it has said about regulations 
being applied  retrospectively. Halifax hasnt said what regulations it thinks  weve  applied 
retrospectively. But for the avoidance  of doubt and sake of completeness,  Id like to make  it 
clear that all of the various banking and lending codes in place since  the early  2000s refer to 
regular requests for increased borrowing as a potential  indicator of financial difficulty. 
Equally Halifax has referred to it being  Mr Hs choice to gamble. I find this particular lack of 
care and empathy  shown  by Halifax astonishing. And it somewhat misses the point  when   
Mr H was spending the banks money in a way which suggested he was unlikely to repay  
what he owed in a sustainable manner, rather than,  as Halifax appears to be suggesting, 
choosing to spend his own money.  And the need  to take account  of a prospective  borrowers  
ability to repay credit  (and not lend irresponsibly)  was a requirement for lenders many  years 
prior to 2014. So I simply dont agree rules have been applied retrospectively and I dont find 
Halifaxs arguments persuasive.
Having carefully thought  about everything, Im satisfied Halifax should have stopped 
providing the overdraft  on the same terms in May 2014, stopped adding fees and charges 
and instead treated Mr H with forbearance. All of this means Halifax  should have realised  
Mr H was experiencing difficulty,  wasnt  using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt  have 
Ref: DRN78238832continued offering  it on the same terms. As Halifax didnt react to Mr Hs overdraft  usage  and 
instead continued charging  in the same  way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr H ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating his difficulties  going forward. So I think that Mr H lost out because of what 
Halifax did wrong and that it should  put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr H.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it from May 2014 onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr H to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to May 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr Hs complaint. Bank  of Scotland  plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7823883