K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  (trading as Halifax) wont  refund payments he made to 
a third party in relation  to a concierge  service (holiday timeshare). 
Background
Mr J made  three payments in relation to holiday timeshares that he asked Halifax to refund. 
Mr J paid £1,493.70  by debit card on 25 March  2013 to one business and made two 
payments totalling  £11,650 to another business by bank transfer on 17 April 2013.  
Last year Mr J tried to claim  the above  payments back via a chargeback  claim. But Halifax 
declined his request.  Halifax  said only payments made via a Visa debit card could be subject 
to a chargeback.  And Halifax also said that the maximum time limit of 540 days from the 
date of the debit  card payment had expired in relation to the 25 March  2013 payment. As a 
result, none  of the payments Mr J raised  were  refunded to him. 
Mr J complained and Halifax responded on 26 February 2019  but didnt agree any errors 
had been made. Halifax  said there was no basis to refund  Mr Js payments. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked  at what had happened. 
He didnt uphold  the complaint and agreed  with Halifax that the payments Mr J made  
couldnt be reclaimed  under a chargeback  claim.  Mr J asked  to appeal so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr J has asked  Halifax to retrieve a substantial amount of money from 
businesses that he says failed to provide the promised services. I can understand why Mr J 
is so upset and why hes asked Halifax to help.  But there is no provision for Halifax  to refund 
the payments  Mr J made. Let me explain why. 
Consumers can raise  a chargeback claim if theyve paid via a debit card. Here, Mr J paid 
£1,493.70 via a Visa debit card supplied by Halifax  on 25 March 2013. But Halifax  doesnt  
run the chargeback scheme or set the rules. Visa operates the chargeback scheme and sets 
time limits for making a claim. 
I wont repeat the specific section in full as the investigator has already included  it in their 
view. But the time limits  Visa sets are strict and Halifax has no power to act outside  them.  
The latest point  Mr J could have raised  a chargeback claim was within  540 days of the date 
of the transaction. But Mr J asked Halifax to complete a chargeback in 2018 which is well 
outside that time limit. That means theres no provision under the Visa chargeback scheme 
for Halifax to arrange a refund. Im sorry to disappoint Mr J as I can see he has genuine and 
reasonable concerns about  the money hes paid,  but the chargeback  claim against his debit 
card payment made  on 25 March 2013 was raised too late. 
As Ive said above,  Visa operates the chargeback scheme but the payments made  on 
17 April 2013 werent made via a Visa debit card. They  were  made  by bank transfer  and 
theres no provision for payments of that nature to be reclaimed in the same  way as a debit 
Ref: DRN76704842card payment. Theres no provision for Halifax to raise a chargeback claim on the bank 
transfers Mr J made on 17 April 2013.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J as I can see he has raised genuine  concerns  about the services 
he paid for. But I havent  found any evidence of a mistake by Halifax  as, for the reasons Ive 
given above, it wasnt able to raise chargeback claims for any of the payments Mr J made. 
As Im satisfied Halifax  has dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7670484