K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from August 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was considering  partly  upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr R responded to say that he agreed with my provisional  
decision. Nationwide made some  further  comments that I will address  below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide says that Mr R requested  £1,050  of cover and would have been provided with 
the cost of the policy during the initial application, so he would have been aware of how 
much it cost.  Nationwide  also says that Mr R wasnt over-insured as the underwriter would 
have paid out the full £1,050 a month  in the event of a claim.
Even if I accept that Mr R wanted cover of £1,050 per month and would have received this 
amount if he had made a successful claim, I am still not persuaded that Nationwide  provided 
Mr R with sufficient information for him to make  an informed  choice about whether or not the 
policy was right for him.
Although Nationwide has said that Mr R would have  been provided  with the correct premium  
information during  the initial phone application, it hasnt provided any evidence  of this. The 
documentation sent to Mr R following the phone call quoted the premium as being  £34.91  
per month. And I havent seen any evidence that Nationwide subsequently alerted Mr R that 
it had misquoted him and that the premium was in fact going to be £52.37 per month.
Nationwide refers to the quote in the mortgage  offer as just an administrative error.  I 
consider it to be a pivotal  error as this is what Mr R based his decision to buy the PPI on. 
The cost of a policy is a significant feature that Nationwide had to highlight  to Mr R, but Im 
not persuaded that it did this  because there  is no evidence that Nationwide ever advised 
him of the actual  higher  cost that hed be paying.
Ive thought carefully about the submissions that Nationwide have made  in response to my 
provisional decision, but for the reasons  Ive explained, they havent changed my view. It 
follows that I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint. Nationwide Building Society should 
pay compensation as set out in my provisional  decision  below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Ref: DRN76851612Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76851613COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr R has complained that Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr R arranged  the mortgage and PPI over the phone in 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  to partly uphold  Mr Rs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr R says that he took out the policy  during  a meeting  and has described  the conversation that he 
had with the sales adviser.  However,  as already  mentioned above, the sale took place over the 
phone. So Im not persuaded that Mr R has any real recollection of the sale, which  is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place.
Nationwide says that the mortgage application form would have been  completed over the phone, 
based on the answers that Mr R provided,  and it then would have been sent to Mr R to confirm  the 
details and to sign.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. There is a separate  section for PPI and Mr R has 
ticked a box to confirm that he wished to be covered by the policy. He has also then signed for the 
PPI, in addition to signing for the mortgage itself. Mr R also completed and signed a separate PPI 
application form. From  the wording and layout of the forms  I think  Mr R would have known that the 
policy wasnt a condition of the mortgage. It seems to me that Mr R decided to take out the policy, 
knowing that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer remembers  doing so.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr R to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure  that it met his needs.  But it 
did need to provide Mr R with enough information for him to be able to make an informed choice  
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr R wouldnt have received any sick pay from his job. Hes said he had some savings, but having the 
policy would have allowed  him to retain any savings  or use them  to cover other outgoings. Mr R has 
mentioned having some  health problems, but he has confirmed that he wasnt seeing  his GP or taking 
any medication for these conditions in 1999.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences  of defaulting on a mortgage 
can be very serious, so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr R had an interest in protecting  his repayments. 
Overall I think  that Mr R had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted  from it at what would 
have been a difficult time.
The mortgage  application form has recorded that Mr R required cover of £700 per month for his 
mortgage repayments plus an additional £350 per month (under the policy  terms a policyholder could 
have a maximum benefit of their monthly mortgage repayment plus an additional  amount up to 50% of 
their monthly  mortgage repayment). There is no information  about  the cost of the policy on the 
mortgage application form.
Ref: DRN76851614On the PPI application  form that Mr R has completed, the sections asking for details about the type 
and amount of cover required have been left blank.
Following this, Mr R was then sent a mortgage offer, which is the first time that I can see that the 
monthly premium  for the PPI was mentioned.  This is quoted  as being £34.91 per month.
However, when the policy was set up, it was at a monthly cost of £52.37 per month.  I dont think that 
Mr R would have been aware that he was paying this higher amount, especially  as the premium was 
taken together  with his mortgage repayments rather than by separate direct debit.
Furthermore there seem to be a number  of other problems. The policy was actually set up to cover a 
mortgage repayment of £1,050, without any additional cover (in contrast  to what was requested on 
the mortgage application). But Mr Rs basic mortgage repayments, according to his first mortgage 
statement, were £438.63 per month. So it seems  that Mr R was over-insured. Even with the option for 
up to 50% of additional  cover,  Mr R would only have been entitled to a benefit  amount of around £657  
per month.
We asked  Nationwide  if it could explain  the discrepancies  above. It says that the mortgage cover of 
£700 requested on the mortgage application is probably  because Mr R was thinking about  taking out 
a repayment mortgage at that time and that the repayments  on that would have been approximately  
£648.71 per month. Mr R ended up taking  an interest only mortgage with a much lower monthly 
repayment amount.
Nationwide hasnt commented  on the uncompleted sections on the PPI application form, beyond 
saying that it was simply an oversight and doesnt prove that Mr R didnt want the cover.
With regard to Mr R being quoted £34.91 for the monthly premium, and then actually being  charged 
£52.37, Nationwide says that the lower  quote  appears to be the price  for mortgage cover of £700, 
without the additional  £350  of cover requested originally  (although actually  the premiums  were 
calculated at £5.45 per £100 of cover,  so the premium is more akin to £640 of cover). It has said that 
this is likely to have  been  an administrative error which was corrected before the policy went  into 
force. But it hasnt provided any evidence of Mr R subsequently being told that the premiums would 
actually be £52.37. And as Ive said, the higher premium was providing  a level of cover that Mr R 
would ultimately have  been  unable to benefit from anyway,  because  the underwriter would  only have 
paid out to the maximum allowable  under the policy terms.
Also, the quote of £34.91 is much closer to what the premium would have been if Mr R had asked for 
cover for his monthly  interest only repayment of £438.63 plus an additional 50% of cover. Overall, I 
find it likely that this is the level of cover that Mr R wanted and that he was quoted for.
Therefore I dont think that Nationwide mis-sold the policy to Mr R. But I do consider  that there was an 
error when setting up the policy  because it was mistakenly set up for the original level of £1,050 and 
set against the mortgage repayment rather than the mortgage repayment and an additional amount.  It 
should actually  have been set up for a benefit amount of approximately £657 per month (£438 
mortgage repayment plus an additional amount of 50%).
putting things  right
Mr R paid more each month for the PPI than he should have. So Mr R needs to get back  the 
overpayment that he made.
So, Nationwide should:
- Pay Mr R the difference between what he paid each month (£52.37)  and what he should have  
paid if the policy  had been set up correctly (£34.91).
Ref: DRN76851615Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr R paid each month from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint because  although  I dont consider that 
the policy  was mis-sold,  I do consider that there was an administrative  error when the policy was set 
up. I therefore require Nationwide Building Society to pay compensation as detailed above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7685161