K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Ms D a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Ms D took out a loan in 1997, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms D disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 The PPI was taken  out several  years ago and because of this theres little information 
available from the time.  So I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any 
discussions. But, on balance, I think its likely  that Lloyds Bank, at least  in the 
documents it was likely to have used, made  Ms D aware  the PPI was optional and 
probably advised that PPI would be a good  idea for someone  in her circumstances. 
Ms D says she experienced  hard selling from Lloyds and she couldnt have the loan 
without the PPI. Given that this all happened more than 21 years ago, I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything  that happened  and for the same reason it 
wouldnt be fair for me to rely on such recollections without some supporting evidence. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that Lloyds  acted wrongly in this way.
 It seems  that Lloyds Bank advised Ms D to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based  on what Ive seen of Ms Ds circumstances  at the time. The policy 
offered a benefit if Ms D was made redundant. And, although Ms D would have 
received employer sick pay, the accident and sickness benefit provided  by the policy  
could still have been  useful. This is because it would pay out on top of employer sick 
pay and potentially would continue to pay out after sick pay ended.  It would also pay 
out on top of any redundancy  payment Ms D received. It would have enabled  Ms D to 
put off using any savings or other  means  of support. Ms D appeared to have  been  
eligible for the policy; and it seems  also wouldnt have  been affected  by any significant 
exclusions within the policy.
 Ms D would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if the policy  had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Ms D.
Ref: DRN77506142 I think its likely the costs of the policy could have been made clearer  based on what 
we know of Lloyds  documents  at the time,  the interest on the premiums probably 
wasnt made as clear as it could  have been.  But I dont think  the actual interest on the 
PPI would have  been so much  that it would  have put Ms D off taking  it. Also the policy 
seems to have been affordable for Ms D.
 Its possible that Lloyds Bank  didnt clearly point out what  the PPI wouldnt cover  but I 
cant see that Ms D would have been  significantly affected by this. 
On balance, I think Ms D wasnt mis-sold  PPI by Lloyds Bank.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7750614