K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mr S complains  about the way that FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as 
MotoNovo Finance, has dealt with a hire purchase agreement under which a car had been  
supplied to him. The complaint is being made by a representative on behalf of the estate.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in April 2016.  The agreement  was for five years  and Mr S had 
agreed to make 59 monthly payments of £122.37  and a final payment of £281.37  for the car. 
He passed away  in February 2019  and MotoNovo Finance was contacted by Mr Ss son-in-
law about the car. 
It listed his son-in-law as an executor and wrote  to him to set out the options  that were  
available. The estate  then complained  to MotoNovo  Finance. It described the actions that it 
had taken and the reasons for them but upheld the complaint due to its error  in listing the 
son-in-law as an executor. The estates representative wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
MotoNovo Finance had accepted that an error was made in listing  the late Mr Ss son-in-law 
as an executor and apologised for any inconvenience caused. She explained why she 
couldnt award any compensation for distress and inconvenience in these  circumstances. 
She said that MotoNovo Finance had given the options that were available  to the estate and 
she didnt agree that the debt should be written-off.
The estates representative has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. The representative says that its appalling that the complaint was upheld - and 
MotoNovo Finance has caused nothing but distress - but no compensation has been offered. 
She also says that MotoNovo Finance has told her that it wrote to this service in December 
2019 with a reduced settlement figure of £1,287.77 but she wasnt  informed of that and shes  
asked whether MotoNovo Finance is allowed to add extra charges to the settlement figure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I offer my condolences to the estate for 
the loss of Mr S and I sympathise  with them for the issues  that theyre having to deal with.
MotoNovo Finance accepts that it made an error when it recorded the late Mr Ss son-in-law 
as an executor. Its apologised for that and, although  I can understand that it has caused 
distress and inconvenience, the investigator  has explained why an award  of compensation 
for that cant be made in these circumstances. I agree with what  the investigator  has said 
about compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
MotoNovo Finance clearly set out the options  that were available  to the estate and its 
representative says that the car will be returned  and a payment will be made to settle the 
agreement. Ive not seen  any information  from December 2019  about a reduced settlement 
figure that was sent to this service   but any lower settlement that its prepared  to accept will 
be a commercial decision for MotoNovo Finance  and this service  doesnt normally interfere 
with a business legitimate commercial  decisions.  
Ref: DRN71374372The amount  of the settlement figure will be determined by the hire purchase agreement and 
applicable legislation and MotoNovo  Finance  will be required to comply with them  when 
calculating the payment  due from the estate.
Other than the error  for which its apologised, Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that MotoNovo Finance has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with the estate 
about the car and the hire purchase  agreement. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require it to write-off any payment required to 
settle the agreement, to pay any compensation or to take any other action in response to this 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold the estates  complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estates 
representative to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137437