K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about advice he received from BlackStar Wealth  Management Ltd in 
2014. He was advised to transfer his personal pension to a self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP) and invest in unregulated investments.
background
Mr W was originally contacted by an unregulated introducer who offered him a pension 
review and then, following  a partial fact find, introduced him to Blackstar. The introducer 
discussed the transfer of Mr Ws personal  pension with into a SIPP to facilitate the 
investments below. His original pension had Guaranteed Annuity Rates  (GARs) built into it.
Blackstar recommended  that Mr W transfer his personal pension  to a SIPP  with the purpose 
of investing into Colonial  Capital Bonds, Dolphin Capital and a General Investment  Account.
The total amount  transferred was just over £40,000,  £25,000 of which was invested  in the 
unregulated investments above. A fee of £1,250  was paid to Blackstar for providing the 
advice and a suitability report was issued by Blackstar.
Mr W was in his early  fifties at the time,  unemployed and in receipt  of benefits. His annual 
income was £5,400. Mr Ws intention was to retire at age 65 and he had a medium attitude  
to risk (ATR).
On discovering that Colonial Capital had gone  into administration  and was not 
communicating with the SIPP provider, Mr W complained to Blackstar  that the advice 
provided to him in 2014 was unsuitable.
Blackstar didnt uphold  the complaint and said that the additional  risks involved had been 
fully explained  throughout the advice process.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and gave  his view that the advice was 
unsuitable and not in Mr Ws best interest.  He said the complaint should be upheld. 
The business did not agree with the adjudicators view and drew attention to a number of 
points including:
That Mr W was expecting an inheritance
That Mr W wanted to take tax free cash
He wanted  to be more in control of his pension investments
He wanted  control  over the payments that could be passed to his beneficiaries
That Mr W was concerned about the performance of his original pension
That the adjudicator had presented the GAR  to be more  valuable than it was
The adjudicator did not change his view after considering these  points. As no agreement has 
been reached the case has been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the adjudicators findings and 
I uphold this complaint  for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN72441372I note that contact with Mr W was through the introducer. The introducer  also completed the 
required paperwork, before submitting it to Blackstar to produce the suitability report.  It 
seems that Blackstar had one telephone call with Mr W prior to producing  its report.
Blackstar had recognised the value of Mr Ws original pension  when  commenting  that:
There are Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GARS) associated  with this plan. This means that the 
pension fund when  converted  to an income at retirement through the purchase  of an annuity 
would be likely to be at rates that are better than those available on the open market at that 
time. If you transferred out of this plan you would lose those guaranteed rates.
I think Mr Ws existing  retirement plans  were in line with his attitude to risk and cheaper to 
administer than the SIPP.  The SIPP charges for the first year amounted to almost  £1,000  on 
top of the advice fee of £1,250. This amounts to 5.5 per cent of the original pension pot. 
Mr W was in receipt of benefits  and his existing pension was invested  in low risk funds and 
funds with guarantees built in. Mr W didnt have investment experience and I dont think he 
would be seen to fit the typical profile  of a SIPP investor. Also,  his pension pot was relatively 
modest, and not of a size which could justify  the initial  fees involved, in my view.
And, on top of that, it was recommended that he invest  over half of his pension  pot into 
unregulated investments.
Mr W was in a vulnerable position  financially   being dependent on benefits - and these 
were his only pension  funds. Not only had a pension portfolio been recommended  which was 
beyond Mr Ws appetite  and capacity for risk, but in making this recommendation, he has 
also been advised to give up GARs which had provided a degree of security  to his retirement 
planning.
Blackstar had a responsibility, as the regulated adviser, to ensure that that the underlying 
investments that had been promoted to Mr W were  suitable for his individual  circumstances. 
It could not recommend a SIPP in abstract.
Blackstar had also said the following:
If you were requesting our guidance  on a suitable  investment portfolio for your pension  
without placing any restrictions or requirements  on the assets  chosen  then our 
recommended portfolio  designed to match your attitude towards risk would look would look
like this:
Blackstar then outlined  a portfolio with 29% in fixed interest securities, 11% in property and 
the rest invested  in a range of globally diversified equities. If Mr Ws need to access  his 
pension lump sum was so compelling, and a transfer deemed necessary on this factor alone,  
then a portfolio  like this would  have  been more in line with his balanced attitude to risk. But 
he would  still have  been giving up the guarantees from the GARs.
But in any event, Blackstar advised investment like this:
£13,000 Colonial  Capital  Corporate Bonds
£12,000 into Dolphin  Capital  GmbH
~ £11,000 into a range of collective funds
Ref: DRN72441373Colonial Capital was a new start-up with no track record. It invested in distressed residential 
property (which had been  foreclosed)  in the USA.  I understand that Colonial Capital Group  
went into administration in March  2017.  Dolphin Capital was German-based company which 
invested in the conversion  and refurbishment  of listed  buildings  (in Germany)  for residential 
use. Both were high risk unregulated investments. 
 Overall, Im satisfied that the recommended portfolio was beyond Mr Ws capacity and 
appetite for risk. Whilst there  may be some argument that the existing pension was 
performing poorly,  that does not justify the actual recommendations that were made. The 
recommended strategy was unsuitable  for him.
I dont consider that it was suitable  advice  to recommend that he give up the GARs in the 
original pension. He should not have been advised to transfer and expose his investment to 
the costs of transfer and the higher future SIPP charges so that he could invest  into 
unregulated investments. These unregulated investments were too risky for Mr W given his 
circumstances and his capacity for loss. 
So, I uphold  the complaint  and Blackstar must  calculate and pay redress  as described 
below. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is that Mr W should be put as closely  
as possible into the position he would probably  now be in if he had been  given suitable 
advice.
I think Mr W would have remained in his existing  pension  plan, up to his intended retirement  
age of 65, because of the GARs built into his plan. I am satisfied that what  I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances  and objectives when he invested.
what should  Blackstar  do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Blackstar must  compare the actual  value of the investment with 
the fair value. If there is a loss, this must  be paid to Mr W. It must also calculate  and pay any 
loss associated with the loss of the GARs.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the date of this decision. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Blackstar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Blackstar is unable to purchase the investment,  the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Blackstar may require that Mr W provides an undertaking 
to pay Blackstar any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Blackstar  will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Ref: DRN72441374fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the date of this decision if it had not 
been transferred.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Blackstar totals  all those payments and deducts that figure  
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
If there is a loss this should be paid into Mr Ws SIPP.
GAR loss
Blackstar must also compensate for the loss of the GARs. It should  make a calculation  of the 
notional value of Mr Ws personal pension as it would be now (assuming that he had not 
transferred it) and the annuity that would have been  attained at age 65 from that pension 
with the GARs. It should be assumed that he would have remained with the same  provider in 
the same  fund but made no further  contributions (as he had already stopped paying in prior 
to transfer).
This should be compared with the notional value  of an annuity using the same  values and on 
the same  basis (also assuming an age of 65), but based on a competitive standard  annuity 
at the same  point.
Blackstar should then capitalise  the amount required to provide the difference between  the 
annuities and should then pay the capitalised sum to Mr Ws pension.
If there is a loss, Blackstar should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Blackstar is unable to pay the total amount  into Mr W's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Ref: DRN72441375Had Blackstar done what it ought to have done  then there would not be a SIPP.  So it would 
not be fair if Mr W continued to have  to pay annual SIPP fees.  If its not possible to pay the 
redress into the existing  SIPP,  then a sum equivalent to five years of SIPP  fees (calculated 
using the previous years fees) should be paid to W (in addition  to the other redress amount). 
This gives a reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed, should he wish to do 
so.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Blackstar deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Blackstar  should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
It is reasonable to assume that if you had not transferred his pension,  that Mr W 
would have remained in his personal pension  because  of the benefits offered by the 
GARs.
final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Blackstar Wealth Management Ltd should  pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Blackstar Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr W in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7244137