K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that Premium Choice Ltd (PCL) delayed  in asking her to pay 
additional instalments for her motor insurance policy after it made a mistake on her account.  
background
PCL sold Miss W a motor insurance  policy  in March 2017. Miss W wanted to pay in 
instalments and PCL arranged for her to do that. After taking a deposit  it set up an 
agreement with a credit provider for Miss W to pay instalments of roughly £75 a month.
About a month  later PCL made a mistake  and credited Miss Ws account with a 
reimbursement of about £450. And it reduced Miss Ws instalments to around £34 a month, 
which rose to about £48 a month  some months  later after she changed her car on the policy. 
In January 2018 PCL spotted  its mistake  in crediting £450 to Miss Ws account and noted  
shed underpaid by that sum. But, as it was its mistake, it agreed to waive  £90 of admin fees 
it had charged and it asked Miss W to pay it the balance of roughly £356. It arranged with 
Miss W for her to pay this in two instalments starting  at the end of February 2018. Although 
Miss W initially agreed to pay the outstanding amount she later changed her mind and 
complained about it to us.
Our adjudicator thought PCL had dealt with the matter reasonably. Miss W didn't agree so 
the complaint's been passed to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I can understand that Miss W is upset that it took PCL roughly nine months to identify its 
mistake in crediting  her account.  And after such a long period of time, she doesn't think its 
fair that its asked her to pay the amounts  owed,  especially as shed been in contact with it 
about other matters,  such as changing the car on her policy.  PCL has accepted it was its 
mistake that caused it to undercharge Miss W by roughly £450. So it waved  its fees of £90 
and reduced the sum owing to roughly £356.  I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
I haven't seen  any evidence  that Miss W asked PCL why her repayments  had almost  halved 
in April 2017. And if shed done so its possible that PCL would have spotted its mistake 
sooner. But it was clearly  PCLs responsibility to administer the account efficiently. That said, 
its only asked Miss W to pay the premium for her policy that shed  always agreed to pay. So 
its mistake hasnt put her into a worse position. So I think its reasonable for PCL to ask her 
to pay the sum outstanding now, as its only asking  her to pay for the insurance  cover shes  
had the benefit of and had agreed to pay for.
I understand that Miss Ws financial situation  has changed since she took out her policy.  But 
PCL hasnt insisted on her paying the outstanding sum in one go. And if her circumstances 
are such  that she cant now pay the outstanding balance in the two instalments she 
previously agreed to, I would encourage her to discuss the matter  with PCL so that they can 
agree a satisfactory payment  plan. But, for the reasons set out above I think  its reasonable 
that PCL asks Miss W to pay the amount she owes.
Ref: DRN79298882my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7929888