K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading at the time as Halifax) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI) when  they took out their mortgage in 1997.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage in joint names in 1997. At the same  time PPI was 
added to their account. 
The policy covered Mr C only (not Mrs C) if he lost his job, or couldnt  work because of an 
accident or if he was ill. It cost £22.77  per month  and it would have paid out £450 for up to 
12 months per successful claim.
The heart of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs C dispute agreeing to take out the policy.  They  
say they never requested it, never discussed  it and werent advised of it. And Mrs C says 
because of her job she was familiar with reading  contracts and documents so she wouldnt 
have missed any reference to PPI on the paperwork.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this matter should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with this 
view and asked that their complaint be referred  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs C have said about not agreeing to take out the 
policy. After so many years, Halifax isnt able to provide  all the paperwork.  Mr and Mrs C 
also havent got any of the documents from the time. This is understandable and not unusual  
 businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely and buying insurance isnt always 
so memorable. But where the evidence is incomplete I have to make  my decision  based on 
the balance of probabilities; that is, whats more likely to have happened taking into account 
the evidence we do have, what both parties have said and also taking into account what  we 
do know about these  types of sales from that time.
Halifax has provided some screenshots to show that the policy was taken out in a branch 
and a number  of questions were likely asked about  Mr Cs age, his employment  situation 
and his health. So I think its more likely that the PPI was discussed  at the time even if
Mr and Mrs C can no longer remember  this now. I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs C 
at the time as there  are no records of the meeting where PPI was discussed  but in order  to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about this Id have to think  that Halifax added the PPI 
without their consent and I dont  think  thats  likely. I also think  its more likely that the PPI 
would have appeared separately on any statements they received so if they were unsure 
about it they could have  questioned it with Halifax at the time. And the PPI was in Mr Cs 
name only. Mr and Mrs C dont think  they would have chosen  the PPI in Mr Cs sole name-  
they have told me this point to illustrate  that this demonstrates that they wouldnt have 
agreed to take out the PPI in Mr Cs name  only as the mortgage  was jointly held. But I dont 
Ref: DRN79800212agree. There are a number of reasons that Mr and Mrs C might  have wanted to cover  Mr C 
only for example  Mr C has told us he had no employee benefits. I think its more likely that 
they chose to cover Mr C only after having  a discussion with the Halifax representative. To 
me it seems as if Mr and Mrs C made a choice about who they wanted  cover for. Overall,  I 
think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the policy in Mr Cs name only 
knowing they could  refuse it if they didnt want it. So I dont uphold their complaint about this 
point.
Ive next gone on to check whether there are any other reasons to uphold this complaint.
I think Mr and Mrs C took out the policy in a branch and that this was an advised sale. This 
put more responsibility  on Halifax for how it sold the policy. It meant that Halifax  had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. It also had 
to give them clear enough information so that they could  decide for themselves whether or 
not they wanted to take it out.
Looking at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, and the policy document from the time, I think  the 
PPI was suitable for them.
I say this because  Mr C (the person covered) was eligible for the PPI. And taking into 
account his circumstances I dont think he would have been precluded from making a 
successful claim  as he has told us he was in good  health and didnt have any unusual  
employment circumstances. So I dont think hed have been affected by any of the main  
limitations or exclusions which might have  make it more difficult  to make  a successful claim. 
Mr C says he wouldnt have received any benefits  from work but he says his wife could have 
helped as she worked full time. Hes also told us about some  savings he had. But this policy  
would have meant if he lost his job or couldnt  work  he could have left his savings in tact or 
used them for other important living expenses.  And it would have meant his mortgage 
repayments were covered. The consequences  of not being able to meet his repayments 
were serious. Having a PPI policy would have also meant that he didnt need  to rely solely 
on his wifes salary or family  to repay  the mortgage. The policy paid out for 12 months so I 
think it would  have  given  peace of mind  and I think it was suitable.
Theres nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable and at the time I think it 
offered a reasonable benefit  for the cost of the policy.
Halifax also had to give enough clear information so Mr and Mrs C could make an informed 
decision about buying the cover. I havent got all the evidence so its possible that not all the 
information was as clear  as it could have been. But thats not enough for me to uphold  this 
complaint. I next need to think whether Mr and Mrs C would have changed their mind about  
buying the insurance if theyd been  given better or clearer  information. But as Ive already 
explained I think its more  likely they chose cover in Mr Cs name only  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover  even if its understandable  that they dont remember this now 
after so many years. And for the reasons Ive set out above as to why I think  the PPI was 
suitable for Mr C I think the PPI could have been  useful  if things  went  wrong. So I dont think 
theyd have been put off buying the PPI even with better  or clearer information.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have told me including whether have said about 
not likely  wanting  it in Mr Cs sole name  as this was a joint mortgage.  But this doesnt make 
a difference to my decision.  I can see Mr C had no benefits from his employer. So that might 
be a reason why only Mr C wanted to protect his mortgage repayments.  And the cost of the 
Ref: DRN79800213cover would have  been  the same regardless of whether Mr and Mrs C were covered or only 
Mr C and the benefit would have been  likely split between  them.  And as no claim has been 
made I dont think they lost out.
Overall I think  the policy was likely suitable and could have been useful if things went wrong. 
So I dont  think they lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong.  Im sorry to disappoint  
Mr and Mrs C but I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7980021