K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund two cash  withdrawals he says he didnt  
make from his account.
background
The cash  withdrawals were for £300  - each from the same cash machine. One was made at 
23:55 on 4 April 2018 and the next at 00:01  on 5 April 2018. Metro Bank then sent Mr B a 
text message asking  him to get in touch about this.
When Mr B spoke  to Metro Bank he said he didnt make these withdrawals. Hed attempted  
a contactless  payment  for £20 with his card on 1 April 2018. And he now realised hed lost 
his card.  He said hed not written his PIN down  anywhere, or told anyone  what it was. His 
card was cancelled.
Metro Bank  said it wouldnt refund the money. A credit of £1,500 had been received into    
Mr Bs account on 2 April 2018.  The cash withdrawals had been made when the genuine 
chip on his card was read and the correct PIN entered. Thered been  no balance  enquiries or 
failed attempts to enter  the PIN. Metro  Bank  said it thought that the withdrawals had been 
carried out by someone  known  to Mr B and recommended he contact the police.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He didnt think it most likely 
that an unknown  third party had been  able to obtain both Mr Bs card and his PIN. Mr B said 
he thought that his PIN had been  seen when he entered it before. But there was no 
explanation of how and when his card had also been obtained. He said he thought Mr B had 
made the withdrawals.
Mr B did not agree.  He said that hed made  credits  into his account before like this one. And 
he would  get evidence to show this. He said that his calls with Metro  Bank  demonstrated he 
was genuine.  And he thought that the CCTV footage shouldve  been obtained by Metro 
Bank. The loss of this money has caused him stress and illness and significant financial 
difficulty. He has provided extracts of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 indicating that 
he didnt think wed taken  account of this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be taking  into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017. The particular area I 
need to think about is whether Mr B authorised these transactions.  Because he wouldnt 
generally be responsible for them if he hadnt.
were the payments authorised?
There are two parts when  considering this. The first is whether the disputed payments were  
authenticated. These were two cash withdrawals from a cash machine. Im satisfied that they 
were made from Mr Bs account when the chip on the genuine card was read and the PIN 
entered. But that doesnt address the second part which is whether he consented to these 
payments.
Ref: DRN71343262I have listened  to the call recordings of his conversations  with Metro  Bank.  And looked at the 
information it has provided about  his account and the withdrawals.  Mr B hasnt provided 
further evidence  to show he made  large credits into his account before.  I dont have a reason 
to doubt that this couldve been the case.  But Ill explain why I dont think  that makes a 
difference here.
There is no explanation  for how someone else found out Mr Bs PIN. Hes consistently said 
he didnt write it down or tell anyone this. I know Mr B thinks  that there couldve been a 
camera on a cash machine recording him entering  his PIN. And that his card was 
swallowed by a device  on the machine. I accept that this is something that fraudsters can 
do. But the difficulty with that explanation  here is that Mr B told Metro Bank he used his card 
for a contactless payment on 1 April 2018. And he didnt make  a cash withdrawal after that. 
He has no recollection  of his card being taken and only found  about this after the text 
message from Metro Bank.
I know he wanted Metro  Bank to look at CCTV. But even if available  that wouldnt 
necessarily have helped  in determining whether the person withdrawing the money was 
acting with Mr Bs consent or not. 
To find that someone  acting without Mr Bs consent  made these withdrawals Id need  to think 
all of the following  were  most likely:
-Someone was able to take Mr Bs card after 1 April 2018 without him realising until 
the disputed withdrawals had been made.
-That same  person was also able to find out the PIN. Ive looked at his explanation for 
how this happened.
-No cash withdrawals were attempted until the payment was in the account.  That 
couldve been a coincidence but it suggests  that the person withdrawing the money 
knew about this and made two withdrawals within  minutes.
-That person  didnt try and take any more money  from the account.  Metro Bank says 
that there were  no attempted  withdrawals with the card after it was blocked.
Im afraid that these  are not all findings  Im able to make on the available  evidence. So I 
consider that the most likely explanation is that Mr B consented  to these payments and I find 
they were authorised by him.
I know Mr B has said he is in financial  difficulty and has health problems. So I fully 
appreciate that my decision will be a great disappointment to him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7134326