K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that a car she financed  through an agreement with Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS),  trading as Audi Financial Services,  was not of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Ms F took receipt of a used car in December 2015.  She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. The car was first registered in February  2014  and had 
completed 13,856  miles when Ms F took receipt of it.
In June 2017, when Ms F says the car had completed 35,049 miles, the airbag warning light 
illuminated and she needed roadside  assistance. The engineer identified  the fault code as:
B10821B passenger side roll over bar solenoid switch high resistance
The dealership said the warranty didnt cover  such issues and wouldnt fix the problem for 
Ms F without charge.
But Ms F thought this unfair. She noted that thered been a technical  bulletin issued  by the 
manufacturer ten months before she took receipt of the car and she thought  this 
demonstrated there was a known fault that she should have been  told about, before she 
agreed to finance  the deal, and that VWFS should accept was a reason to resolve the issue 
for her. She explained,  in March 2018, that the car wouldnt pass  an MOT as a result  of the 
fault and was therefore no longer driveable. And she complained to VWFS, saying they 
should fix the fault for her. She was also disappointed that VWFS were refusing to freeze  
payments on her finance agreement until the resolution of her complaint. 
VWFS didnt  agree. They said that as such a long time had passed they didnt think it was 
likely the fault had been there when Ms F took receipt of the car. And as they were  only 
responsible for faults with the vehicle at that point: they didnt accept responsibility.
So Ms F referred  her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
noted that the technical service bulletin,  Ms F had identified,  referred  to an airbag warning 
light illuminating under fault code B1027-15  and not under B10821B. He didnt think  hed 
been provided with evidence  that the two fault codes were connected so he didnt think  there 
was evidence that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply and he therefore didnt 
think VWFS needed to take any further  action. 
He considered Ms Fs concerns that VWFS  were still pursuing her for payments on the 
finance agreement  despite the problems Ms F was experiencing. But he explained  that he 
couldnt insist  VWFS froze payments until the resolution of the complaint.
Ms F was disappointed  with the investigators  opinion. She explained that a report  from the 
dealerships customer  care manager  had explained  that, the fault codes in the technical 
bulletin and the one shed experienced, were part of the same  system. She said this report 
had explained  that further tests would need  to be done to ascertain where in the system the 
fault lies. And she said this was evidence the two faults were linked and the car was 
therefore faulty when she received it. She said the dealership should have informed her 
about the technical bulletin  before she took receipt  of the car and that they should have 
Ref: DRN71182832identified this in their pre-sale 145 point  check. She was still disappointed that the finance 
instalments hadnt  been frozen.  So she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Ms F acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Wed usually assume that if a car developed a fault in the first six months it was likely to 
have been there from the point of supply  but if it happened after that wed usually  look to the 
consumer to prove this was the case. 
The technical bulletin  Ms F refers to gives garages some direction on how to repair  a 
problem that will be identified by the airbag warning light illuminating and fault code B1027-
15 showing. These technical bulletins appear to be written by manufacturers or professionals 
to highlight the approach  to be taken for commonly occurring faults. They appear distinct 
from recalls as there seems  to be no obligation for a dealer  to take the car back and provide 
a proactive resolution. 
The fault code  Ms F refers to is a different one from the one in the technical bulletin and it 
didnt present itself until about a year and a half had passed and Ms F had covered an 
additional 21,000 miles.
Im not persuaded there is evidence that the fault Ms F is now experiencing with the car was 
there, or developing, at the point of supply. I say that because:
Ive not seen evidence that the specific fault code referred to in the technical bulletin  
has ever been experienced by Ms Fs car 
I understand the codes both refer to airbag  system  but I dont think  the fact that a 
different fault code  (B10821B) has been displayed on the same system can 
reasonably be used to demonstrate  another fault (B1027-15)  was present.
I think its most likely  that, if the fault was present or developing at the point of supply, 
it would  have presented itself within  the first few months of driving. I think its more  
Ref: DRN71182833likely that after such a long time and mileage, the fault thats now present has 
developed since  inception of the finance  deal
Ms F says that the comments by a customer care manager at the dealership, that were  
made in June 2017, support her view. The report says:
although this code  is related to the same system it requires further tests  in order  to 
ascertain where  within the system the fault lies
Having read that report more fully I can see that the customer  care manager was 
considering whether Ms Fs warranty would  cover the repair.  The manager explained that if 
the fault was sensor related the warranty would cover the work but if it was related to the 
wiring, Ms F wouldnt be covered. Further tests would be required to ascertain whether it 
was sensor or wiring related. But I dont think its fair to suggest the manager is considering 
whether there is evidence  of a fault at the point  of supply here: she is merely considering the 
warranty. Im not persuaded by these comments that theres  any evidence that there was a 
fault at the point of supply or that a fault was developing. I therefore dont think  VWFS need 
to take any further  action.
was the car misrepresented to Ms F?
Ms F has said that if she had been aware  of the technical bulletin before she took receipt of 
the car there  might  have  been a different outcome and she may not have decided to 
proceed. 
If she wasnt told about something that was important and this would have led her not to 
proceed with the deal Id think it right to ask VWFS to do something about it.
But I dont think thats been shown to be the case here. If Ms F was told about the technical 
service bulletin the dealership wouldnt  have  been telling her there was anything  wrong  with 
her car. They would have  perhaps been  highlighting that the fault was a common problem 
with the vehicle. But Ms F wouldve noted  that the warning light wasnt  illuminated on her car 
and I think its reasonable to suggest shed therefore not have considered  it to be affected. I 
think its reasonable to suggest she wouldve understood  that there are common  faults on 
many cars but this doesnt  mean those common faults will happen.  So I dont think  it would 
be reasonable to suggest theres evidence  here that Ms F wouldnt have proceeded with the 
car deal and I dont  think VWFS need  to take any action.
the refusal to freeze payments
Whilst its true that many organisations will agree to freeze repayments until a complaint is 
concluded, thats not something we can insist the business do. They are entitled  to receive 
payments against  the finance  agreement they have formed with their customer.  So Im afraid  
I dont think VWFS have done  anything  wrong  in continuing to press for payment.
Ms F wrote to me in November  and Ive been  able to review that letter  today. I was sorry to 
hear that her circumstances  had changed.  I understand  that she believes she should be 
allowed to reject her vehicle but as Ive set out above I dont believe that would be 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN71182834my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118283