K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation)  cancelled  his direct  debit 
for a finance  agreement  and reported  missed  payments on his credit file.  
background
In 2016 Mr L bought  a sofa and opted  to pay for it through a finance  agreement with 
Creation.
Towards the end of 2018 Mr Ls direct  debit was cancelled. Creation says it sent letters out 
to Mr L to let him know about the cancelled  direct debit and notify him of the arrears  on the 
account. It also sent texts  and made  numerous  calls, none of which  connected. No 
payments were received for three  months, and Creation didnt hear from Mr L.
After realising his direct  debit had been cancelled, Mr L complained to Creation in     
February 2019. He hadnt received Creations letters, as hed changed his address. Creation 
also held the wrong  contact number for him.
When Mr L contacted  Creation  earlier  this year hed recently been turned down for a 
mortgage  and said the lender told him it was due to adverse data on his credit file. Mr L 
disputed the missed payments recorded by Creation, saying he wasnt responsible for 
cancelling the monthly payment instruction. Hed spoken to his bank,  who said it was 
Creation that had cancelled it.
Creations response said it had received a request to cancel the direct debit from Mr Ls 
bank. The reason code given was instruction  cancelled by payer,  so it didnt think it was at 
fault for the cancellation. Creation also said it was required to report  Mr Ls account conduct 
accurately to the credit reference agencies   and so wouldnt be amending his credit  file. 
Mr L, unhappy with the response, referred his complaint to our service  for review. 
An investigator here looked at everything  and thought Creation should remove  the adverse  
data on Mr Ls credit file. He relied on evidence provided by Mr Ls bank that Creation had 
set up two direct debits (one active, one dormant).  The investigator believed  Mr L had 
deleted the dormant one, which generated a request for Creation to cancel that instruction  
but instead Creation had cancelled the live direct  debit.  
The investigator didnt  consider any further compensation was due as Mr L hadnt updated 
his contact details  with Creation. If this had happened, then Mr L wouldve been  alerted to 
the situation and been able to put things right before incurring any adverse effects on his 
credit file. He also commented that Mr L hadnt been able to demonstrate the mortgage 
application had been declined solely because of the missed payment entries.
Mr L accepted  the investigators view, but Creation  didnt. In summary it said:
It believes the inactive  direct debit instruction Mr L saw on his online banking  was the 
original instruction set up at the start of the agreement  when  he was with a different 
bank.
It doesnt know why a mandate referencing a previous direct debit instruction with a 
different bank was showing  up on his online banking with his current  bank.  
Ref: DRN75457252The report received  from Mr Ls bank in 2018,  which contained the request to cancel 
the instruction,  provided his current sort code and account number.
There wasnt a mandate number or other reference on the report  that would have 
enabled Creation to distinguish that request related to the original direct debit 
instruction (now inactive). Creation only had one on its system, so cancelled that.
Why did Mr Ls bank send through  a cancellation request for an inactive direct debit 
instruction?
It speculated that the reason there were two direct debit instructions (one active,  one 
inactive) could have something  to do with the switch from his old bank, and the way 
his current bank  processed it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve asked lots of questions of both Creation and Mr Ls bank in order  to determine what 
went wrong here. Having  reviewed the submissions from both businesses  its still unclear if 
either made an error,  or whether limitations in the systems through  which  they communicate 
are to blame. 
Now that both businesses  are aware of the issue, I hope they will work together to find a 
solution. But I dont  think the question of whether  Creation or his bank is at fault matters  for 
the outcome of Mr Ls complaint as its clear Mr L wasnt at fault. So I need to decide if 
Creation has treated  Mr L fairly in recording  missed  payments on his credit file  and I dont  
think it has. 
From everything Ive seen, I dont  think Mr L did anything  wrong  when he deleted an inactive 
direct debit instruction  on his online banking. He hadnt intended to stop paying towards his 
finance agreement  with Creation. And he made up the missing  amounts as soon as he 
realised what had happened. It was likely  a mis-communication of some kind between 
Creation and Mr Ls bank  that resulted in the live direct debit instruction being  cancelled. 
So I dont  think the missing payment entries are a fair reflection of how Mr L has managed 
the account or his ability and willingness to repay the borrowing. For this reason, I think its 
fair and reasonable that any adverse data in relation to those missed payments should  be 
removed from his credit file.
Mr L complained that this adverse data on his credit file resulted in him being declined  for a 
better rate on his mortgage  and so wanted  to be compensated for the resulting loss. 
But I dont think Mr L updated  Creation  with his new address until it was too late. If the 
address had been updated, he wouldve likely received the letters  Creation sent  and 
wouldve been able to reinstate his direct debit  before his credit file was affected. Ive also 
considered that I dont  think  Creation  could  have known there was a problem with 
communication between  it and Mr Ls bank until Mr L raised his concerns. It had acted in 
good faith on instructions it received from the bank. So for all those reasons I dont think  it 
would be fair for Creation  to compensate  for any additional costs  or inconvenience Mr L 
might have incurred  as a result of the mix-up with the direct debit.
Ref: DRN75457253my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I uphold this complaint,  and direct Creation Financial Services  
Limited to remove the missed payments recorded on Mr Ls credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7545725