K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Lloyds  Bank  General  Insurance Limited wont  pay a home 
insurance claim for accidental damage to their sofa,
background
In October  2018 Mrs T contacted Lloyds to make a claim as her sofa had a rip in it. She 
advised that it had likely  been  caused  by her son climbing on it. She believed he had caught 
it by the buckle on his shoe. Lloyds  sent out a technician who inspected  the damage and 
said that it was due to wear and tear and not a one off incident. He said the sofa wasnt very 
well maintained and also that possibly Mrs Ts dogs had use of the sofa.
Mrs T said the sofa wasnt that old and that her dogs werent allowed in the room. She 
pointed out that the tear had got worse  before the technician came  and that the sofa wasnt 
otherwise damaged, She wanted  another technician to visit. She was also unhappy that the 
technician had failed  to make the first appointment because he went  to the wrong address 
for which she was blamed. She was also upset  with the way the claims adviser at Lloyds 
spoke to her.
Lloyds declined the claim. It confirmed that it believed the damage to be due to wear  and 
tear, which is excluded by the policy. it acknowledged the difficulty caused by the missed 
appointment and said its claims  adviser acted professionally but shouldnt  have refused to 
tell her his job title. It agreed to pay £50.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Lloyds had acted reasonably.  The 
technician had found the damage to be most likely caused by wear  and tear and our 
adjudicator thought that was reasonable after considering  the technical report  and photos.
Mrs T didnt  agree and repeated that she thought  a further inspection was necessary.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T's claim has been  made under the accidental damage section  of her policy. This is 
defined as:
An accident that causes  physical damage, which is caused suddenly  by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
It is for the policyholder to show to the insurer that there is a claim that is covered under the 
policy. Mrs T has surmised that her son caused the damage by his shoe  buckle although 
agrees that she has no evidence  to show it was caused by him. Nevertheless if the damage 
was likely to have been caused  in the way described by Mrs T it would in my view have 
come within the above definition.
The technician who inspected the sofa said there is a rip about 20cm  long, about the width  of 
an A4 page.  He also noted a smaller tear. He said:
Ref: DRN74103982 The rip is consistent with wear and tear over time and not a one off incident, and not using  
the sofa correctly,  possibly  dogs have used the furniture.
Whilst Mrs T has confirmed her dogs arent  allowed in the room. I have to say that from the 
photos the rip doesnt look consistent with a tear caused by a childs  shoe buckle. Im not an 
expert but we do take account  of expert  evidence. And from that evidence  the cause has 
been found to most  likely due to wear and tear. Ive noted that there  is a smaller tear above  
the main tear. Also the technician found  the sofa not to be well maintained.  There is a 
general exclusion in the policy for damage  caused  by wear and tear. Also if the damage has 
been caused over a period of time that is not something which  occurs suddenly  so wouldn't 
be accidental damage.
I appreciate that Mrs T has told us the tear became larger between reporting  it and the 
technician visiting. But I think it reasonable to accept  the expert conclusion of the technician.  
I conclude that Lloyds acted reasonably in declining the claim.
I note Mrs T was caused some difficulty when  the technician failed to attend the first 
appointment. She was also upset at the way she was spoken to over the telephone.  Ive 
considered Lloyds response  to this and I think its payment of £50 in respect  of this was 
reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7410398