K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim on their home 
insurance policy for subsidence.
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs E contacted their insurer as they had noticed cracks in an 
extension to their property. The extension had been built in 1988.
Aviva arranged for the damage to be assessed and investigations into the construction of the 
extension and the ground conditions were undertaken. Avivas experts found that the 
extension was built on shrinkable clay and the main cause of the problem was a tree in 
Mr and Mrs Es garden dehydrating the clay, causing it to shrink  under the foundations.  It 
was also established  that the foundations  were  550mm deep. 
The claim was declined  as Aviva said the foundations  were  not built to the standard that was 
required at the time  they were too shallow. This was because they should have been  
designed to take into account  the influence the nearby tree would have on moisture  levels in 
the ground. As such, it considered the primary cause of the damage  was poor design of the 
extension foundations. The terms and conditions of the insurance  policy  excluded  claims 
where it could be shown the damage had occurred because of poor design.
Mr and Mrs E complained, but Aviva didnt change its decision so they referred the matter to 
us to consider.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and upheld it. She pointed out that the 
industry guidelines Aviva had relied  on hadnt been  proven to be relevant  at the time 
Mr and Mrs Es extension  had been built. In addition, she noted that the guidance was just 
that, guidance. There was no evidence building regulations  required this guidance to be 
followed and the guidance was designed  for the construction of whole builds, rather  than 
additions to an existing  building. Given the extension had remained sound for thirty years 
after it was constructed,  she couldnt accept the designed  had been  defective or poor. As 
such, the exclusion Aviva had used to defeat the claim should not be applied  and it should 
deal with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions.
Aviva didnt accept the view. It asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration. When doing so it referenced several decisions that have been issued by this 
service over recent years.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said the depth of the foundations on Mr and Mrs Es extension  was inadequate.  
To show this it has applied current building regulations and current industry guidance.  
However, the extension  was built over thirty  years  ago. Both building  regulations  and 
industry guidance have evolved  over those thirty years. Indeed,  building  regulations  alone  
have been revised  numerous times  during that period, including  being completely 
overhauled in 2010. As Aviva will be aware, it is not appropriate for modern standards to be 
applied retrospectively.  That would be unfair  to consumers.  
Ref: DRN70776582The government issues approved documents  which provide detail and further  guidance on 
how to comply with building regulations. It is from this document that Aviva has referenced, 
in its declinature letter, the requirement  to have  foundations of 900mm for medium plasticity 
clay soils and the need to make them deeper if required by site conditions. However, this is a 
recent version of the document. If Aviva wants  to rely on the content of approved 
documents, it needs to rely on those  in use at the time the build  in question was designed.
Aviva hasnt provided any evidence of the requirements in place at the time the extension to 
Mr and Mrs Es home was designed and built. As such, I cant  find that it has evidenced the 
foundations would have been considered  inadequate based on the requirements and 
standards in 1988. 
In addition, as our investigator  said, the property had been standing undamaged  for around 
30 years  at the time of the claim.  Those 30 years spanned years where there  were  
significant numbers  of subsidence  claims,  but it didnt subside. This leads  me to conclude 
that the extreme weather in the summer  of 2018 was the dominant cause of the subsidence 
of Mr and Mrs Es property, not poor or faulty design of the foundations. 
In light of the above, I find that Aviva cannot apply the exclusion it has to defeat the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement  of the complaint  I require  Aviva  
Insurance Limited to deal with Mr and Mrs Es claim.   Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject  my decision 
before 29 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077658