K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about NewDay Ltd (Aqua) following his application for a credit card account.  
He says it was agreed he would  have  two interest  free balance  transfers,  one for 6 months 
and one for 9 months, but despite this he complains hes been  charged two lots of interest.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr K and Aqua so I wont  repeat  it in any great  detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Mr K opened  a credit card account with Aqua  on the 31 January 2018. On the 
2 January 2019 he took a 0% 6 month balance transfer, and then on the 6 February 2019 he 
took 0% 9 month  balance transfer.  
Mr K states that during  two calls in January  2019  he was told by Aqua that if he took 
advantage of the balance  transfers he would not be charged any interest on purchases 
either. He accepts the terms  and conditions to the account provide explicitly for interest to be 
charged but says he has a separate contract based upon the phone  calls he had in January.
Aqua said they had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions on the account and 
also that during  a call to their offices  on 6 February 2019 Mr K confirmed he was aware  that 
he would  accrue  interest on any purchases made.  In addition  they said that the credit  card 
statements showed how interest would be accrued. As such, they rejected the complaint  but 
did accept that their service had not been  good and for that removing £20.69  of interest.
Mr K was unhappy with Aquas response  and so the investigator looked into the complaint 
but didnt think  Aqua had acted unfairly.  As Mr K didnt  agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate. Im 
not the industry regulator, and I dont  have power to make rules  for financial businesses, 
direct that they change  their processes, or punish them. That is for the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
I will consider  whether Aqua acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K. I aim to 
address all relevant  points  with a view to reaching  a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides  views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come  to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
So, I think we have  an unfortunate situation here complicated by the fact that Aqua dont 
have a copy of the January call recordings.  But they do have a copy of the 6 February call. 
Ref: DRN72689882I have to work with the evidence I do have and that starts with the credit  agreement.  Section 
3.2 states, Interest is charged  at the standard purchase rate and is calculated on the 
monthly outstanding  balance  from the date of the Purchase and added  to the balance each 
month.
Section 3.5 states We will not charge interest on Purchases shown on your current 
statement, if you pay the total balance shown on that statement by the Payment date (and 
have also paid the total balance on the previous statement by the Payment date).  On all 
Transactions where we do charge interest,  we charge it from the date we first charge the 
amount to your account.
I think Mr K accepts  this is the correct  position if his account is governed  by the credit  
agreement. His argument though is that there is a separate agreement superseding it. But 
his account statements also state clearly in the section headed your interest rates how the 
balance has been  accrued and how interest  will not be paid if the balance is paid in full.  
I have also considered the call Mr K had on the 6 February, which  was when Mr K made the 
second balance  transfer. When asked if he knew all about retail  purchases and that if he 
was to make  any purchases that he knew he would be charged  interest  on them,  Mr K 
confirmed he did. He said he understood what the promotional deal was and that he knew  
that the only interest free period was on the balance transfers. 
So I think all of this shows, on a balance  of probabilities, that Mr K was aware  of how interest 
would accrue on his account, and that his account was governed by the terms and 
conditions agreed  to when he opened it.
I know Mr K thinks that the refund of interest  on his account is in some way an 
acknowledgement or acceptance from Aqua of his argument, but I dont agree. Im satisfied 
the refund  of interest  was for a different issue, that being poor service. Although Mr K will 
probably be disappointed with my decision,  I have come to the same conclusion  as the 
investigator. So I cant say Aqua has acted unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay Ltd. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my 
decision before  16 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268988