K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.                   
Mrs and Mr H say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them MPPI. 
background 
Mrs and Mr H took out a mortgage in March 1997  and alongside it a MPPI policy. They were 
equally covered  under the policy. The policy cost £19.92 per month and it wouldve  paid out 
£200 per month for up to 12 months  for each successful  claim.  
Mrs and Mr H said they were  told they had to have MPPI and thats why they took out the 
policy. They  said, in summary, they didnt need it because they had other means  of paying 
their mortgage repayments if one of them wasnt working. They  said they wouldnt have 
taken PPI if given  a choice. Mrs and Mr H said we should be considering whether PPI was 
necessary, rather than whether it wouldve been  useful .
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their complaint. As agreement couldnt be reached their 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
The paperwork from the time of sale is no longer available. Banks often only keep  records 
for six years. So, this it isnt surprising, given how long ago the sale was. We dont hold it 
against the bank in circumstances like this. In situations like this, we have to consider  what  
more likely than not happened,  based on whats available and looking at the wider  
circumstances.
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that PPI was optional. To uphold  Mrs and Mr Hs 
complaint, Id have  to find that more likely than not they werent told that the policy  was 
optional. I cant know what was discussed  when they took out PPI on the phone. They  said 
they were told they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. Given  the limited information  now 
available, I dont have  enough to persuade me that Mrs and Mr H were more  likely than not 
pressured into taking  PPI and wouldnt have taken  it otherwise. I think it just as likely they 
were told that PPI was an optional extra  and agreed to take it out. So, I cant fairly uphold 
their complaint on this ground. It wasnt a condition of the mortgage that they take PPI, so 
taking PPI wasnt necessary. 
Bank of Scotland recommended they take MPPI.  This placed more  responsibility on the 
bank, because it had to take reasonable steps to check that the policy was right for 
Mrs and Mr H, and that it was suitable.  That involves me looking at whether  it wouldve  been 
useful to them in their individual circumstances.  
The bank also had to give them  enough clear information so they could make an informed  
choice about whether  they wanted MPPI.  
I cant see that the policy was unsuitable for Mrs and Mr H. Ill explain  why: 
Ref: DRN71200952Mrs and Mr H appeared eligible to take out the policy;
Mrs and Mr H said they both wouldve got sick pay from their employers. The MPPI  
wouldve paid out on top of their work  benefits and possibly for longer. It wouldve 
allowed them to use their work benefits  to meet other household expenditure if one or 
both of them couldnt work.  It wouldve  also paid out if one or both of them  lost their 
job. They  couldve made  repeated claims on the policy giving them long term 
protection over their mortgage  repayments.  Given that the policy  covered their home,  
I think MPPI  couldve  been useful to them.   
Mr H had around £5,000 in savings. He was also getting a pension. His pension 
wouldve still been paid irrespective of whether he was working. So, Ive thought 
carefully about whether these other resources meant that the policy  was unsuitable  
for them. Mr Hs salary  was considerably more than he got from his pension. So, I 
think it mightve been difficult for them financially  to maintain their standard  of living if 
he lost his income. And his savings wouldve covered his salary  for much less than 
the 12 months that they were covered  for under the policy,  for each  successful claim. 
So, I cant see that Mrs and Mr Hs other resources made the policy unsuitable for 
them.
I cant see that Mrs and Mr H were  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the MPPI  cover. So, I dont think having  better  information about the things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve  affected their decision to take out the policy.   
The policy appeared affordable. It was a monthly paid policy  so they couldve 
cancelled it at any time without losing out financially.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs and Mr H about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, I cant see that they have lost out because  of anything  that 
Bank of Scotland mightve done  wrong. MPPI  appeared suitable,  affordable  and I cant  see 
that they wouldve made a different decision with more or better  information.   
Ive thought about everything Mrs and Mr H have said, but for the same reasons as already  
explained by our adjudicator, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  4 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7120095