K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2007 and 
added to Mr Cs existing  credit card account during  a telephone call. Mr C says Capital One 
(Europe) Plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr C applied for his credit  card by completing a postal application form in 2003.  Capital  One 
has provided a copy  of this form and I can see on there  he ticked no to having  PPI added. 
But the PPI was added to Mr Cs account  during  a telephone call to activate a new card a 
few years later. 
Capital One needed to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional. It no longer has a 
recording of the telephone  call which isnt surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. 
But it has given us the script it expected  its representatives to follow during these  types of 
calls. The script prompted  the advisor to explain the PPI was optional and asked for 
agreement for the policy to be added to the card.
Based on what we know about  how Capital  One sold PPI at the time,  I think  its likely the 
script wouldve been followed during the call. Nothing from what Mr C has said makes  me 
think Capital One didnt follow the script. And I think its unlikely Capital One would have 
added the PPI without Mr C indicating he wanted it. So I think  its most likely  Mr C choose to 
take out the PPI although I can understand why he cant remember this. 
Taking into account everything  Ive seen, I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to 
Mr C so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr C got 
the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But from what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr C says he would have  received any sick pay benefits from his employer. The policy 
would have paid out alongside his sick pay and would have also covered him if he lost his 
job. 
Ive noted Mr Cs comments about savings he had available at the time. But having the PPI 
meant he would  have had those savings  available for other essential costs  if he found 
himself too unwell to work or unemployed. 
Taking all of this into account,   I think it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ref: DRN75466092So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7546609