K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has declined  a claim, made under her contents 
policy, for stolen jewellery from her parents property.  
background
A number  of years back Miss M suffered a head  injury. Because of this and a burglary, she 
decided to keep  her sentimental jewellery at her parents home  (from 2014). In July 2018 
they were moving  and Miss M helped  them  with this. And because of the move  Miss M 
decided she was going to move her jewellery  to a safety deposit box. 
Whilst in the process  of moving, Miss Ms parents were burgled and Miss Ms jewellery  
stolen. So she submitted a claim to Allianz.  Allianz rejected the claim as it didnt think       
Miss Ms jewellery was covered as the keeping of it at her parents wasnt temporary. Miss M 
complained as there was no definition of temporary in the policy.  But Allianz stood by its 
decision. 
So Miss M asked us to look into this matter. Our investigator concluded Allianz  hadnt  
unfairly declined  the claim, as although temporary wasnt defined, he didnt  think four years 
could reasonably be considered temporary.  Miss M disagreed and asked for the matter  to be 
reviewed. She has said shes  not happy  the contents policy isnt suitable  for the disabled  or 
someone in a vulnerable situation. And that she was the keeper of the jewellery and it was 
only to be kept at her parents until they moved.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Miss Ms policy does cover contents  temporarily  removed. The policy  says:
What is covered
Section E
Contents temporarily  removed
Loss of or damage to Contents temporarily taken from your Home , but still in the British  
Isles, caused  by the following:
Circumstances set out in Section A the basic cover but not including  theft.
Theft of Contents:
while being carried directly between a bank safety deposit and your Home
from any building other than your Home
Up to £300 resulting from a hold up while the property is being carried or worn by 
you or your  family  or an authorised  person
Miss M is correct the policy doesnt  define temporary.  But that doesnt automatically mean 
her claim should be covered. Where a word  isnt defined its given its ordinary everyday 
meaning in the context  for which its being used  in this case, a contents  insurance policy. 
The other scenarios  covered under this theft section refer to contents being  carried between  
places or worn. I think its clear  temporary means  a limited period of time  carrying or 
Ref: DRN78856132wearing something would be hours, days perhaps weeks at most. I dont think  this could be 
reasonably interpreted as years.
Im also mindful the reason Miss M decided to keep  her jewellery at her parents was due to 
her head  injury. This is perfectly understandable.   But it doesnt appear  that this decision 
was temporary or that Miss Ms situation was. It seems  Miss M only decided to move  her 
jewellery as her parents were moving.  So although I accept Miss M was the owner of the 
jewellery, Im satisfied leaving those belongings with her parents for that duration wasnt 
temporary.  As  such, there  is no cover  under the policy  for what happened.   
It is unfortunate Miss M has found  herself the victim  of theft. But I dont find Allianz  has 
declined the claim  unfairly. 
Finally, I note Miss M feels  the policy might not be suitable for vulnerable  or disabled  people. 
I understand why she makes this argument, given  her circumstances, but not being  covered 
for a particular eventuality  doesnt necessarily mean a policy is unsuitable.  In the event, its 
for Miss M to decide whether a policy fits her needs and circumstances and if not to shop 
around for something  else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7885613