K820x#14Complaint
Miss M says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Miss M applied for a credit card account  with Lloyds in 1994. Her first available statements, 
in 2000, show  her having PPI. So the PPI was sold at some point between  1994 and 2000. It 
covered Miss M in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was around two decades or longer ago, so understandably  neither side have the 
original documents  from the time. Indeed,  under data protection  rules  Lloyds  were  required 
to dispose of Miss Ms data rather than hold onto it for too long.  But from what Ive seen of 
Lloyds sales process during  the period of Miss Ms sale, it looks like she wouldve only got 
PPI if she actively chose  it. And Ive not seen any evidence which  shows that Lloyds added 
the policy without  Miss Ms permission  or misled  her into taking it. So I think  its most likely 
that Lloyds gave Miss M a choice and she chose  PPI at the time  though  I can understand if 
she no longer remembers  doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss M, or not. The requirements 
were stricter  on Lloyds  if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Miss M, Ive assumed they 
did. That means Lloyds  had to check the policy was right for her  and based on what  Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time,  it looks  like it was. For example, it looks  like Miss M 
was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
While Miss M said she had good benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
those, and it offered  her more comprehensive  cover. I also understand she may have had 
some savings, though  understandably  she wasnt able to give us any evidence of them.  In 
any case, the PPI meant Miss M could effectively protect her savings and use them  for other 
things, as she wouldnt have to sacrifice them to pay her credit card if she was off sick or lost 
her job. Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Miss M.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Miss M about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the policys main exclusions or limitations,  and it could have been useful for Miss M in case 
something went wrong. And the policy was paid on a rolling  monthly basis, so Miss M could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty.  So taking everything together,  I dont  think  better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Ref: DRN73393352My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7339335