K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied unfair charges 
when he voluntarily terminated his hire purchase  agreement. He wants the charges waived.
background 
Mr Y tells us that he decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) his hire purchase agreement. He 
said when the vehicle was inspected he was told by the collection agent  that it was in 
fabulous condition.  He says he then received an invoice for charges  from VWFS  listing 
numerous items of damage to the vehicle and charges for excess  mileage. Mr Y says he 
wasnt given the option to repair the vehicle himself. And that it was sold almost immediately 
after inspection.
VWFS told us the vehicle  had been  inspected by a company Ill refer to as B. It said the 
inspection had been carried out in accordance  with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guide. VWFS explained  it had removed two charges 
(£174 +VAT) as the photographs werent  enough  to justify them.
Our investigator thought VWFS had acted fairly.  He said it had agreed to waive the excess  
mileage charge. He found that the damage  fell outside BVRLA guidelines  and that VWFS 
was entitled to apply these charges.
Mr Y wasnt  satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS has agreed to waive the charges for excess mileage. So Im not making any further 
findings in this respect. Ill confine my decision to the damage charges which were applied.
I understand Mr Y would be disappointed to receive  these charges  as he hadnt  budgeted for 
them when he decided to end the agreement early.
The agreement which Mr Y signed  contained  the following clause:
You will be responsible for any damage  to or deterioration of the vehicle which  is in excess  
of fair wear  and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle.
Ive seen good quality colour photographs of the vehicle which accompanied Bs inspection  
report. In my opinion,  theres no doubt that the original inspection  photographs identified 
several aspects of damage that fell outside  BVRLA guidelines.
Our investigator, in his view letter, gave a detailed description of the damage.  I neednt 
repeat it here as the parties have seen it. Enough to say that it included  visible  damage  to 
bumpers which showed the paint surface broken and primer/bare metal exposed. To justify 
the description of the vehicle as fabulous  would be challenging.
Ref: DRN78835222Whilst Mr Y has said he didnt have the chance to repair the vehicle Im unable  to agree with 
this assertion. Ive seen  information which shows a VT pack was sent to him. The VT form 
was returned by Mr Y on 27 June  2018. Included in the VT pack is guidance on what  will 
happen regarding  collection  and inspection of the vehicle:
Once an appointment has been agreed, a vehicle inspection will be carried  out by a BCA 
appointed Inspector, who will evaluate the vehicle using the minimum return  standards  set 
out by the British Vehicle  Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
The inspection was completed on 2 August 2018. This meant Mr Y had at least  four weeks,  
if not longer, to arrange for repairs prior to the inspection.
Im satisfied the charges applied by VWFS  are the result of damage to the vehicle which fell 
outside BVRLA guidelines  for fair wear and tear. Its agreed to waive charges for excess  
mileage. As such I shant  asking VWFS to do anything  else in relation to the charges 
applied. 
my final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) has agreed  to waive  charges  for excess mileage. I 
consider that to be a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint.
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should remove  charges  
for excess mileage from its invoice. It is entitled  to apply the charges in respect of damage in 
the sum of £426.60. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7883522