K822xComplaint
Mr Js complaint is that Interactive Investor Services Limited  (IISL) unreasonably delayed  
notification of a proposed  merger that affected his holding in the JPM Emerging Europe 
Equity fund (the EE fund). He says IISL is responsible for the loss he incurred when he 
subsequently sold his holding at a lower price. 
background 
Available evidence  presents  the following chronology:
The EE fund notified IISL on 26 February  2018  about the proposed  merger.  IISL 
notified Mr J about it on 10 March. On 11 March he confirmed  to IISL that he had 
elected the option to switch his holding to the Fidelity Asia Pacific Opportunities  fund 
 besides a switch of funds, the only other two options available  to him were  to do 
nothing and have  his holding transferred unto the new merged fund if the merger 
happened or to sell his holding by a specific deadline and before any agreed  merger 
became effective. The prospect of the merger was dependent  on the outcome of an 
Extraordinary General  Meeting  (EGM) to be held on 13 April.
Between 15 and 16 March Mr J chased  IISL for action on his switch instruction  of 
11 March. He describes  a number of telephone calls in this respect and asserts  that 
he could not get meaningful assistance (or explanation) from IISL in terms of why his 
switch instruction had not been  actioned. On 16 March he says he was  obliged to 
place a sell order  for his holding.  He also complained on the same  date.
On 18 March Mr J emailed IISL to elaborate on his complaint, highlighting the key 
issues as IISLs failure to send him information about the proposed  merger;  IISLs  
failure to action his switch  instruction;  and the poor service he received from IISL 
(including during  his pursuits on 15 and 16 March). He also noted that his sell order  
had yet to be executed   as of 18 March.
On 19 March Mr Js holding  was sold  his sell order was executed.
On 13 April the EGM for the EE fund decided not to proceed  with the proposed  
merger.
IISL upheld only the service related aspect of Mr Js complaint but it offered no 
compensation. The matter was referred to this service and has been  the subject of cross 
correspondence between  one of our investigators  and both parties. The crux of the 
complaint is presently Mr Js assertion that notice of the proposed  merger  on 26 February  
would have given  him the opportunity to sell his holding  at a better price than it was sold on 
19 March. He calculates that the difference in sale value, based on the relevant price on 26 
February in contrast  to the price  on 19 March, is around £850 and he argues  that this is the 
financial loss that has resulted from IISL depriving  him of notice on 26 February.
The investigator was not persuaded that IISL is responsible for the alleged loss. She 
concluded that the execution only service in Mr Js account did not include a duty on IISL to 
forward him the notice  on 26 February  in this respect IISL also argues that whilst its 
service would have  included the provision  of merger information, that would have happened 
only after the proposed merger  was confirmed, not before then and not whilst it remained  a 
proposal.
The investigator and Mr J also considered and took different views on the terms that applied  
to his account following its transfer, in late 2017, from a previous provider to IISL. Mr J 
maintains that he never agreed  to IISLs terms in the course of the transfer and he notes that 
Ref: DRN71865122evidence that the terms support the notion that IISL was not obliged  to share the notice  of 
26 February is conflicting and is of less value than evidence he discovered from its website 
which suggests the opposite. The investigator considered that Mr Js consent to IISLs  terms 
was implicit in his continuing use of its service  and of the account with IISL. She also 
concluded, on balance,  that the terms were clear enough to support IISLs argument that it 
was not obliged to share  the notice  on 26 February.
In terms of the service  related aspect of the complaint, the investigator concluded that IISL 
should pay Mr J £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the level of customer  
service he received. IISL did not agree  with the award but accepted the investigators view 
as a means to conclude  the complaint.
Mr J did not accept the investigators  view and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I endorse  the investigators proposal that IISL pay Mr J £100  for the trouble and upset  
caused to him by the level of service  he received, especially during his pursuit for 
explanation and assistance  between  15 and 16 March. I consider that IISL could have saved 
him the repeated calls he had to make over those two days if it had accurately and 
comprehensively informed him about the state  of affairs concerning  his switch instruction 
during the first call. £100 is a reasonable sum of compensation for the trouble and upset his 
experience in this respect caused  him.
With regards to the overall  application  of IISLs terms, I too am satisfied that Mr J implicitly 
agreed with them by continuing  to use its service and the account after the account transfer 
in late 2017.
I note Mr Js concern about the legitimacy  and application of the terms on which  IISL says it 
was not obliged to share  the information  on 26 February. However, I am not persuaded that 
this issue is as much in dispute as he might consider.
IISL appears to accept that the provision of holding related information, in the context  
relevant to the facts of this complaint, to investors  is within its service. However, its position 
is that such provision is not triggered until and unless the proposed merger becomes a 
confirmed merger. It is not uncommon for execution only accounts  such  as Mr Js to include 
such a service on the basis of such a trigger. Whether (or not) IISL would  have provided  said 
information if or when  the proposed merger was confirmed is arguably  irrelevant.  Firstly 
because Mr J sold his holding on 19 March before  the EGM on 13 April and secondly 
because the EGM  voted against  the merger.
It is not clear  that there is direct evidence  of account terms applicable specifically between 
February and March 2018. The term Mr J found  in support of his position postdate this 
period and the same appears  to apply for the term presented by IISL in support of its 
position. The suggestion is that the terms for the relevant period were not materially  
different. I note Mr Js perception of a conflict between the terms but I am not persuaded that 
the conflict is to the extent  that he asserts, is to an extent that causes confusion  or that his 
interpretation of the term he cites supports his position as he considers it does.
Ref: DRN71865123The term Mr J cites refers to an information provision service (covering matters  such  as 
accounts, annual  reports and voting events)  that takes place upon an investors request.  It is 
not clear whether (or not) the settings for his account included  such  a request.  In any case, 
this term does not necessarily conflict with IISLs  acceptance that it would have provided the 
merger related information  once the merger  was confirmed. I have not seen  a term that says 
it was obliged to do so prior to such confirmation  and I consider that this is the key point that 
does not appear  to have been  established in Mr Js complaint.
It is also worth noting that Mr Js case for notice on 26 February could arguably be defeated 
by the facts. He says the financial loss he wishes to be compensated for is based  on the 
sale price he could  have  achieved on this date as opposed to the lower sale price  he 
achieved on 19 March   and on lack of notice  from IISL on 26 February  causing  him to lose 
the opportunity  to sell the holding around that date. However, it is also his evidence  that he 
did not want to sell his holding, upon  news about the proposed  merger  on 10 March. He did 
not elect the option for sale but instead opted for a switch of funds  and continued  to pursue 
a switch of funds up to 16 March. A reasonable conclusion that might be drawn is that, on 
balance, he would not have sold his holding on 26 February even if he received notice of the 
proposed merger on that date.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that it would  be fair and reasonable to ask IISL 
to cover the financial loss that Mr J asserts.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Js complaint only in relation to its service  related 
aspect. I order Interactive Investor Services Limited  to pay him £100  for the trouble and 
upset caused  to him in this respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7186512