K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (BPF) took money  from his debit card account without his permission. He wants the 
money refunded.
background
Mr K tells us he contacted  BPF in June 2018  to enquire about a settlement figure  for his 
finance agreement. He says he only wanted to pay £1,000  but BPF took the full amount of 
over £4,100. He feels BPF acted fraudulently in taking the extra money. He says that BPF 
later promised to refund  the money but it hasnt  done so.
BPF told us that Mr K contacted it on 8 June 2018 and was provided  with a settlement  figure.  
It said he was transferred to the Interactive Voice  Response system (IVR) and that he used 
this to make  a payment of the full amount by debit card. It said it was satisfied the payment 
had been taken correctly.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said hed listened to 
the relevant phone call - and that it was clear Mr K had wanted to settle the full amount. 
Mr K didnt agree and said there  were  other  phone calls and he felt the case  hadnt  been 
looked at properly. As its not been  possible  to resolve the complaint an ombudsman  has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr K is upset  about whats happened and Im sorry hes not happy with the way 
things have turned out. Im aware of other complaints hes had in relation to this agreement.  
But Im only dealing with the specific issue of whether BPF took more money from his 
account than hed authorised.
We are an evidence-based service  and if evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - 
as some of it is here - Im required  to make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities. Put 
another way, I decide what I think is the most likely explanation to account for whats  
happened.
Mr K took out a conditional sale agreement in January 2015 for a term of five years. In May 
2018 he was quoted  an early settlement figure  which was valid until 27 June 2018. On 8 
June Mr K contacted  BPF - initially about one of his other complaints.
Ive listened to that phone call and the contents are clear. Mr K makes reference to previous 
complaints and is disputing the way the settlement  figure was calculated.  That was a matter 
which has been dealt  with by another ombudsmans decision so I shant comment upon that. 
But at several points in the call Mr K says he wishes to pay off the full settlement amount. 
And at one point  he says he wants to pay the full amount - but that he then intends  to sue 
BPF. He then asks to be transferred  to the automated  system  so he can make the payment.
Ref: DRN79638532So not only did Mr K indicate his intention  to pay the full amount, he used the automated IVR 
system to do so. This meant  he authorised the debit of the full settlement  amount. And in 
taking that amount BPF did no more than follow Mr Ks instructions.  
Although Mr K has not said he made  an error in making the full payment - he still thinks  BPF 
did not have authority to take the whole sum - I have considered  what  the effect  of this would 
have been. But Ive reached  the conclusion that BPF would still have been entitled  to treat 
the agreement  as fully settled. As it had made no error it would not be under any obligation 
to refund the difference  and reinstate the agreement. Ive also not seen  any evidence to say 
BPF ever made any promise to do so.
So whilst I know it will come as disappointment to Mr K, Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7963853