K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  
by The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op).
background
In 2008 Mrs S took out a mortgage with a different business to The Co-op.  At or around the 
same time she was sold a regular  premium PPI policy  to cover her repayments  if she was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she thought the way the 
policy was presented suggested  Mrs S had a choice  in taking  the policy and that it provided  
a suitable benefit.  
Mrs S disagrees, so the complaint  has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. 
The policy was sold during a meeting with an advisor. The advisor  had to make it clear to 
Mrs S she had a choice in taking  the policy and that it wasnt a condition  of the mortgage. 
The policy was standalone and sold separately  to the mortgage  (Mrs Ss mortgage  being  
with a different  business).The Co-op have given  us a copy of the advisors recommendation 
letter sent to Mrs S following the meeting.  I can see from this that although the advisor 
recommended full cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment Mrs S chose to take 
cover for accident and sickness only because of the cost and her main concern was being 
covered for accident and sickness. 
I can see this choice  was confirmed on the PPI application form Mrs S signed. On it Mrs S 
was given the choice to take unemployment cover  as well as accident and sickness cover.  
Again, I can see that she has selected to take accident and sickness cover only.
So I think Mrs S wouldve understood PPI was optional because it was entirely separate  
from her mortgage and Mrs S was able to choose to take a different level of cover to that 
recommended.  
The Co-op advised Mrs S to take the policy. What this means is that The Co-op not only had 
to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs S could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to Mrs Ss needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if The Co-op did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs S for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN73304312Mrs S was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
Mrs S says the policy was surplus  to her needs.  I can see in the letter  of 
recommendation that Mrs S had told the advisor  she was entitled  to three months  sick 
pay. But the policy wouldve covered her for up to 12 months  if she couldnt work due to 
accident or sickness and paid out on top of any sick pay. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mrs S in her circumstances 
especially considering  she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think  
she wouldve been interested  in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs S at the time. And 
if she decided she no longer wanted  the policy she could cancel it - which  I can see she 
did after a year of having  the policy in place.
I also need to consider  whether The Co-op  gave Mrs S information  in a way which  was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take the policy  out.
I dont know if The Co-op did give all the information as it shouldve.  But for the same 
reasons that the policy was suitable  and based on what Mrs S has told us about her 
circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if shed been  
given all the proper  information.
Which means I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint  against The Co-operative  
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7330431