K820x#14complaint
Mr U1 and Mr U2 are unhappy with the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) they had to pay 
when they redeemed their mortgage  early with Santander UK Plc. They believe the ERC 
didnt represent  a reasonable pre-estimate of costs to Santander.  
background
Mr U1 and Mr U2 took out a mortgage on a two year fixed  rate in 2016. Their  mortgage offer 
explained that if the mortgage was to be redeemed  before the two years  had expired Mr U1 
and Mr U2 would have  to pay an ERC  amounting to 3% of the mortgage balance that was 
repaid or transferred.  Mr U1 and Mr U2 were charged £9,839.73.
Mr U1 and Mr U2 have  made it clear that they were  aware of the ERC  from the outset and 
that they dont  deny  having agreed  to the terms of conditions  of the mortgage. However, they 
are challenging whether  the ERC  represented a reasonable pre-estimate  of costs to 
Santander as a result of them paying the mortgage off early.  
They wanted  Santander to demonstrate to them this was the case and if they couldnt do 
that they felt Santander should refund the ERC.  They  also say Santander has avoided 
addressing the matter  and have asked for additional  compensation for the trouble and upset 
this caused them.
Our investigator thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She felt the information given to 
this service by Santander showed the ERC was calculated in a reasonable manner  and 
wasnt charged unfairly.
Mr U1 and Mr U2 disagreed and so the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much  the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
For an ERC to be fair it should be set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. I can 
see Santander met these  requirements here and Mr U1 and Mr U2 have confirmed that they 
were fully aware of the ERC and the maximum amount  that could be charged before they 
entered their mortgage contract. So, other than finding that Santander set out the ERC fairly 
and reasonably, Im not going  to address  this in any more detail.
The regulator set out their rules and guidance  around  ERCs  in The Mortgages and Home 
Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook (MCOB). MCOB says lenders are only allowed to 
charge an ERC if its a reasonable pre-estimate of costs as a result of customers redeeming 
their mortgage before  their contract  has finished.  Mr U1 and Mr U2 dont believe the ERC 
they had to pay fulfils this requirement.
MCOB applies to regulated mortgages . Mr U1 and Mr U2s mortgage was a buy-to-let 
mortgage which isnt regulated and so MCOB doesnt apply here. However, Santander  have 
told us that they estimate ERCs in the same  way for residential and buy-to-let mortgages.
Ref: DRN77329902So Ive looked  at whether  the ERC Mr U1 and Mr U2 had to pay was a reasonable 
pre-estimate of costs  to Santander. If it was, it would  be difficult for me to say the ERC was 
unfair as this requirement comes from MCOB and goes further than would usually be 
required for a buy-to-let mortgage.  
Santander have  shown us what cost factors they consider when setting the ERC and they 
provided specific calculations for each  element.  They demonstrated how they calculated 
their total estimated costs if a two year fixed rate mortgage is redeemed early.  
This is commercially sensitive information  and weve accepted this in confidence.  The rules 
we operate under allow us to do this. So Im afraid Im not able to give any more detail about 
the actual calculations given to us. However,  Ive carefully considered the evidence provided 
and based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that the factors considered by Santander are 
reasonable and that the 3% ERC  they charged doesnt exceed their reasonable 
pre-estimate of costs  for when a two year fixed rate mortgage is redeemed  early.
Mr U1 and Mr U2 questioned whether we considered what actual loss Santander suffered 
when their mortgage was redeemed  early.  That isnt relevant here.  The ERC isnt a penalty  
applied on breach of contract. Rather, it is a term of the contract that allowed Mr U1 and 
Mr U2 to leave their fixed rate product early. So the ERC doesnt have to reflect any actual 
loss suffered by Santander.
Also, MCOB would only require a lender  to carry out a reasonable pre-estimate across a 
specific product or portfolio of products  and apply the same charge to each  borrower. They 
only have to make reasonable estimates what those  losses would be. And as I said above, I 
think their estimated calculations in this regards are reasonable. So, again, Santanders 
actual loss would not be relevant.
I understand Mr U1 and Mr U2 also want to know  whether Santanders ERC was in line with 
what other lenders  were  charging for a similar  product in the same  time period. I dont know  
what other lenders  were  charging at the time. However, this doesnt affect my decision. I say 
this because Santander can choose  to-but isnt obliged- to take their competitors charges 
into account as a factor when setting their ERC.  Its worth pointing out that lenders can 
choose the method of how they calculate their estimated  costs.  And Santander provided 
enough information for me to be satisfied  that their pre-estimate of costs was reasonable 
and that the ERC of 3% is in line with these calculations.
For these reasons I dont  think  it was unfair  or unreasonable for Santander to charge the 
ERC they did and so I wont ask them to refund it.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr U1 and Mr U2s complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U1 and Mr U2 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7732990