K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the MPPI.  
The mortgage and MPPI were sold by Abbey National. But Santander took over from Abbey 
and has responsibility  for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Santander  in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs H case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, so 
Ill explain  my reasons why. 
I should start by saying  that Mr and Mrs H have responded  to our adjudicators view saying 
that they took out MPPI  with their original  mortgage in 1983  (the building  society  involved 
was bought out by Abbey  National prior to Santander  taking  over at a later date).  They say 
that they were  told MPPI was essential at this time. But theres  no records available  
regarding this original  mortgage, or any MPPI  premiums  and the information Ive seen 
shows that Mr and Mrs H were  sold MPPI  in 2003. So my decision will focus on this sale.
Mr and Mrs H have said that they dont remember much from the sale in 2003,  but they were 
unaware the MPPI had been  added  on  and they didnt need it. Santander has been able to 
provide some, but not all, of the paperwork from the time. I dont  find this unusual  for a sale 
that took place  so long ago  I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs H to remember in detail what  
happened, and businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely.
I can see from the mortgage application Santander  has provided that the MPPI is presented 
as an optional product.  This section has been left blank  so I think  that there is a separate  
application from which is missing from the paperwork, but as Ive explained above I dont find 
this unusual. And I still think its likely that Santander  made  Mr and Mrs H aware they had a 
choice in taking  the policy, and that they chose  to do so.
I say this because  Santander has supplied a copy of the welcome letter  that was sent to 
Mr and Mrs Hs address  which confirms  the price  and benefit of the MPPI,  along with 
information from the underwriter that shows the MPPI policy was cancelled in 2004 at the 
request of Mr and Mrs H. 
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check  that the MPPI  was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take it out  it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Ref: DRN77840582It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium   and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr and Mrs H has said  but the points raised dont 
change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Santander  should also pay back to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander 
should also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784058