K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that her motor insurer esure  Insurance Limited  unfairly accepted full liability  
for a claim following her accident, based  on an incorrect reading of a witness statement. 
background
Mrs B had an accident driving a relatives  car. Mrs B was covered under the driving other 
cars extension of her own motor insurance policy  which provides her with third party cover. 
Both parties  said the other was to blame  but esure has accepted liability  on Mrs Bs behalf.    
Mrs B said esure initially told her it would accept  a 50/50 split of liability so she can get half 
the cost of the car's repairs back, but this hasn't happened,  and she is out of pocket. Mrs B 
said esure shouldn't  have  accepted liability based on a witness statement as the witness  
said they didn't  see the actual collision. She said the witness statement shows she wasn't at 
fault and esure had agreed to this, but said it couldnt change the decision on liability.  
esure said Mrs B wasnt convincing in her explanation of the accident and an independent  
witness saw her running away from the scene. Mrs B said she left with her family  as the 
other driver was becoming aggressive.  esure  said Mrs B didnt call the police first and the 
police had to recover the car. It said hers wasnt a typical reaction and given that shes  been 
summoned to court for fleeing the scene, it was in a difficult position to defend  liability. esure  
said the policy entitles  it to make decisions on liability:
'We have  full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which  may 
arise and we may take over, defend or settle  the claim in your name for our own benefit".
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said esure  accepted that 
the witness hadnt seen the accident  but didnt think it had a strong enough case  to defend 
liability in court. She said esure told Mrs B that she may be able to recover costs  if it agreed 
a 50/50 split of liability  with the other insurer, but it was made clear to her that liability  hadnt  
been decided  at that point.
Mrs B disagreed saying  shes been totally let down by esure as it said it would split liability  
which meant she would get half the cost of the repairs and could repay the owner of the car, 
but now is left with nothing. She requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is to consider whether the insurer handled the claim and made  decisions in a fair 
and reasonable manner.  It isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident.
If an insurer has assessed the evidence of a claim to conclude that it doesnt have 
reasonable prospects of success in court and so doesnt think  it had a strong enough case  to 
defend, it may take over its defence and settle it. esure has a term in Mrs Bs policy  that 
allows it to take over (see above) and settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt  need the 
agreement or consent of Mrs B to do this. We think  insurers can rely on this term as long as 
its fair and reasonable to do so in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN78691372I have looked  at how and why esure reached its decision. From its records I have seen that 
esure has looked at both versions of the events and the damage to both cars, and it has 
considered the witness statement from the independent witness.  Mrs B pointed out that the 
witness said they hadnt seen the actual moment of the collision, and esure conceded  that it 
had initially  given undue weight to the statement  as it hadnt picked up on this point. This is 
correct but the witness also said Mrs B was on the wrong side of the road and not driving 
with due caution, and ran away  from the scene of the accident.
Notwithstanding its incorrect  reading of the witness statement, esure  didnt think it could 
have successfully pursued the claim to court or defended liability. I think that esure  has given 
detailed consideration to the evidence and in reaching its position  on the liability  for the 
claim. More  recently  esure has said it wouldnt be able to settle the claim on a without 
prejudice basis as the third party  has issued  legal proceedings concerning an injury  claim, 
and based on the circumstances, and the evidence provided so far it intends to accept 
liability. This decision will be subject to any proceedings that may follow. 
Mrs B said esure told her it would agree to split liability with the other insurer.  In a call with 
Mrs B, esure explained that she wasnt covered for damage to the car as she only had third 
party cover under the 'driving other  cars - third party only' aspect of her policy, and Mrs B 
said she understood. esure said to Mrs B that if a 50/50 split of liability  could be agreed  in 
future she may be able to recover  half the repair costs from the other  insurer. At no point in 
the call did esure say that there would be a split liability for the claim. In the circumstances I 
dont think Mrs B has been adversely affected  by esures handling of her claim.
From what  Ive seen I am satisfied that esure has considered all the evidence and 
arguments in its considerations  about the liability for the claim. I think that esure was justified  
on the evidence  to take the approach it has taken on the claim so far, and has treated Mrs B 
fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7869137