K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) reduced  his 
monthly benefit after hed made a claim under his group income protection insurance policy.
background
In 2016 Mr B made a successful claim on an income protection  policy  (the policy)  he has 
through his employer and underwritten by L&G. After the deferral period L&G began to pay 
Mr B 75% of his monthly salary each  month  - in accordance with the terms of the policy  
which says: 
the definition of incapacity which will apply for a claim will be our "own occupation"
definition for the first 12 months of payment  and after this period 50% of the benefit  
will be assessed on this "own occupation"  definition and 50% of the benefit will be 
assessed on our "suited occupation"  definition.
Relying on this term, L&G reduced  the monthly benefit a year later as it concluded  that Mr B 
was well enough to carry out other suitable  work. L&G doesnt dispute  that Mr B still cant do 
the job he was doing immediately before he stopped working.
Mr B disagreed and appealed that decision - but L&G didnt reinstate cover. So he 
complained to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagrees. His 
complaint has now been  passed  to me to look at everything afresh  and make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Before  I 
explain why, I want to assure Mr B that I dont doubt  hes been through a very difficult time, 
and my decision is in no way intended to be dismissive of the issues  hes had with his 
health. But for the reasons below,  I dont think L&G has unfairly reduced the monthly benefit 
hes receiving under the policy.
Subject to the other  terms of the policy, the benefit  is paid if a member is incapacitated 
because of illness that prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation 
immediately before the start of the deferred  period.  L&G accepted that Mr B met this 
definition and he received the full monthly  benefit for 12 months.  
But that definition  only lasts for the first 12 months  of the benefit being paid. After that time, 
for a member to carry on receiving the same  level of benefit, the policy  says they must be 
incapacitated by an illness which prevents them from being able to undertake any 
occupation appropriate to their experience, training or education. Such occupation  isnt 
deemed inappropriate if its lower paid than the job they were  doing before (or lower than the 
monthly benefit)  - or lacks  the status  or seniority  of their own role. Im satisfied L&G was right 
to consider this as an applicable term when reassessing Mr Bs claim under the policy. 
So the crux of this complaint is whether L&Gs decision to reduce the benefit on the basis 
that Mr B was well enough to perform a suited occupation - as at the end of January 2018  
was reasonable.  Im not a medical expert but Ive relied on the evidence available  to me 
when considering this issue. And having  done  so, I think  L&Gs decision to reduce  the 
monthly benefit when  it did was fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN74576492Mr B was absent from work since July 2016 and from the claim form he submitted to L&G 
dated November  2016 it looks like he was unable to work due to the effects of tinnitus which  
hed developed a couple of years before. He also says he was suffering with depression and 
anxiety caused  by him needing to wear  hearing  aids to do his job; thereby aggravating his 
tinnitus. 
In December 2016, his GP reported  that prolonged use of hearing aids drastically  affected  
Mr Bs stress levels and, as a result, it was no longer safe for Mr B to do his job. His GP also 
said Mr B had suffered  with a period of depression which had developed  after a period of 
stress at work and the subsequent onset of tinnitus but this had been successfully treated - 
although his tinnitus had affected his mood.  So, at that time, Im satisfied L&G has 
reasonably concluded that the barrier  preventing  Mr B returning to work was tinnitus  and 
the wearing of  hearing aids aggravated that condition. The medical evidence  doesnt  
support that at that time Mr B was depressed.   
In September  2017, so around  four months before the policy  definition  of incapacity 
changed, a rehabilitation  consultation took place with Mr B. The report says Mr B felt hed 
made a full recovery from depression but he was still struggling with his tinnitus especially 
when he wore hearing aids. Its also reported  that Mr B didnt require any psychological 
support and that he may be able to work  in another role  such  as a research role with his 
employer where he could work from home  and use his computer. And this was being looked  
into as a possibility  by Mr Bs employer  at that time. I note that this isnt much different to 
what Mr Bs GP said back in December 2016 (before the benefit became payable): that it 
was possible that Mr B could undertake work of a lighter nature and that his skills would 
potentially be useful  in other areas (e.g training). 
The report  concludes that Mr B was fit to undertake  another role provided he didnt need to 
keep his hearing aids in, communicate  with other people too often and he was working  within 
a quiet environment.  
A transferrable skills report dated December 2017  identified that Mr B had a range of 
transferrable skills and specified a role he would be able to do. However, it was felt at that 
time that Mr B wasnt yet job ready as he needed  to improve  his mental  and physical health  
in order to improve his tolerances to work.  It also concluded that he would benefit  from 
talking therapy and a review from an ear, nose and throat consultant to advise on other 
coping techniques to manage  tinnitus and hearing  loss.
But a second rehabilitation assessment took place a month later,  in early January 2018.  Its 
reflected that Mr B had mild depression and anxiety and as such, it wasnt felt at that time 
that a referral for psychological  treatment was needed. The report  reflects that Mr B was 
medically fit to undertake  an alternative  role and the alternative role with his employer was 
mentioned. It acknowledged that Mr B struggled  with basic  communication when he wasnt  
wearing hearing aids, and when he did wear them it interfered with his tinnitus, but 
concluded hed be able to work independently  on a computer, communicating  by email. 
So in all the circumstances,  and taking into account  the evidence L&G had at that time, Im 
satisfied it reasonably concluded  that Mr B was able to carry out a suited  occupation at the 
time it took the decision to reduce his benefit under the policy. 
Ive also taken into account the information  thats  been obtained  since the decision was 
taken by L&G to reduce  the benefit, and in particular documents which  suggest  that Mr B is 
Ref: DRN74576493not well enough  to work. But Im persuaded by all the evidence Ive seen  that the reason 
preventing Mr B from working since the benefit  reduced, isnt his tinnitus or hearing loss. 
A further  rehabilitation assessment took place in May 2018 (the further assessment) and 
says Mr B had developed  moderate depression and severe anxiety caused by issues  with 
his employer, the benefit reduction under the policy and having to find another role whilst 
suffering with tinnitus.  The assessor  concludes Mr B wasnt  medically fit to undertake an 
alternative role at that stage on the basis that hed struggle to communicate  in another role 
without it having  a detrimental effect  on his deteriorating health, and she suggested a referral 
for cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). 
But thats different  to what was reported four months previously in January 2018,  shortly 
before the monthly benefit was reduced, when it was concluded Mr B was fit to return  to a 
suited occupation  and was only displaying signs of mild depression  and anxiety. 
I dont think its unreasonable for L&G to confirm the most likely reason  for the deterioration 
in Mr Bs depression and anxiety was having his benefit reduced and the fear of returning to 
the workplace.  Thats  supported by Mr Bs GP letter dated March  2018  which  reports over 
the past year Mr B has been quite happy  with no significant  problems  and that hed come 
to terms with having to give up his profession which did initially  struggle psychologically  
with. Since being  notified that L&G was reducing  the benefit, the GP reported that Mr B had 
been in a very low mood, very irritable  and not sleeping as a consequence of the stress and 
resurgence of doubt in his life. He said prior to receiving this information hed felt fine but the 
thought of returning to work  and having to use hearing aids regularly would  be intolerable. 
He concluded  Mr B might be suffering with post-traumatic stress.
Mr Bs GP referred him to a consultant psychologist and in early April 2018  she reported the 
prospect of going  out into the world of work again is a very different arena  for Mr B to cope 
with and the last few months hed been  dealt a heavy blow which meant  he had to face 
himself and what the future may have  in store; hed not really accepted his tinnitus, hearing 
loss, or his loss of identity. Whilst she considered he wasnt  able to return  to work at that 
time  not until hed had the benefit  from psychological therapy and met with the audiology  
department  this is a different reason to the one that Mr B was off work for initially, and prior 
to the benefit reducing. For the reasons already set out above, Im satisfied the illness that 
prevented Mr B from doing  his own occupation  under  the policy  and the reason why the full 
monthly benefit was initially paid - was his hearing  loss and tinnitus; not depression.
In this respect the further assessment says Mr Bs hearing aids aggravate  his tinnitus so he 
wears them  as little as possible and that Mr B struggles  to hear anything  anyone is 
sayinghe cannot  hear for the constant  tinnitus.  But thats not consistent  with Mr B and the 
assessor being able to converse easily sitting face to face in a quiet room or Mr B being 
able to manage the contractors renovating his home, which  he reported doing around  that 
time. Nor is it consistent with an audiology  report dated October 2016. Although that report 
says Mr B would struggle  to hear when more than one person was talking in an environment  
with lots of background noise, it concludes that in a quiet environment, and without his 
hearing aids, Mr B was able to recognise  90% of words at conversational level. With his 
hearing aids, he was able to recognise 96% at whispering level.
Whilst its of course possible that Mr Bs condition has got considerably worse over time, I 
havent got anything from an audiologist  confirming that. All I have  is an audiology report  
dated March 2018 and that doesnt comment on this. The report  suggests Mr Bs hearing  
device doesnt  increase  noise to uncomfortably high levels. And he was advised to gradually 
Ref: DRN74576494build up the use of the hearing aids and that its known that it takes  at least three months of 
constant use for the brain to adapt to new sounds but for people prone to auditory fatigue 
(perhaps like Mr B) it takes longer. Its said they generally manage  better  in quieter 
environments. The report concludes that in the longer term the hearing aids will improve  
hearing and reduce tinnitus. 
So, in conclusion, I dont  think  L&G has unreasonably refused to reinstate the monthly 
benefit to the level Mr B was receiving prior to January 2018. In light of the further  
assessment, it did offer Mr B CBT to support him returning to employment, as I wouldve 
expected in the circumstances  of this case. It doesnt need  to do anything  more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision before 20 October  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7457649