K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Rooftop Mortgages  Limited isnt properly processing the 
overpayments they have been  making towards  their mortgage account  leading to the 
account going into arrears. Mr and Mrs R would like compensation  of £750.
background 
Mr and Mrs R began  this mortgage with another lender and the account transferred to 
Rooftop. Mr and Mrs R regularly make  overpayments on the account  and they say that 
they had no issues  until the account was taken over by Rooftop. The issue was that 
Rooftop held the money  in a sub-account and when  £1,000 had accumulated it used that 
to reduce the capital balance. But its system didnt anticipate  that there would have to be 
an interest payment  in the month of June last year.  This meant that although the capital 
was reduced,  the interest payment wasnt made so that the account  showed as being  in 
arrears for that month  
Rooftop after an amount of correspondence accepted that it should  have dealt  with the 
overpayments differently and offered to make  a payment of £100 for the distress caused.  
Our adjudicator felt that this was fair. But Mr and Mrs R asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R make payments of £413 per month towards a mortgage  where  the 
payments were only £35.42 per month.  They wanted the rest to go to overpayments 
which it did. But it seems that the system that Rooftop operated  could lead to putting  the 
account in arrears by not leaving enough in the account to pay off the monthly interest 
payment. This appears to have happened in June 2018 and caused  this issue.  The 
arrears problem has now been sorted. But Mr and Mrs R believe that the matter  
shouldnt have got this far and that Rooftop  should  put similar procedures  in place to 
avoid this problem  for every other  customer. Mr and Mrs R also feel that £100 
underestimates their efforts to sort this out.
In coming to a decision on the level of compensation I have to weigh up a number of 
factors and in particular  the effect the error had on Mr and Mrs R. This error had 
potentially serious  consequences for Mr and Mrs R as it could have affected their credit  
record. But it didnt. According to Rooftop the account was put in arrears  for 24 days  and 
incurred £0.03  of additional  interest. Rooftop  says it wasnt credit reported.  I note that Mr 
R was given the opportunity to check that but hadnt done so. But I assume that must be 
the case.
I have read carefully  Mr Rs submissions and I understand the level of frustration that he 
had in getting his message over to Rooftop and that it took some  effort  to get it sorted 
out. But it does  seem to me that although  this had potential to do damage it didnt do so. 
As our adjudicator explained were not a regulator  and cant  require Rooftop to change 
its rules nor are our awards meant to punish  Rooftop. They  are meant to provide fair 
Ref: DRN78025152compensation and in the context of this complain I feel that the amount suggested by 
Rooftop is fair.
I also note that Rooftop  agreed to waive a charge put on Mr and Mrs Rs account  by a 
previous lender which seems appropriate in the circumstances. As Rooftop made this 
offer before the complaint was brought to this service I dont uphold  this complaint but 
approve the settlement offer made  by Rooftop.
my final decision
My decision  is that I approve the offer made  by Rooftop Mortgages  Limited  of £100 to 
settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7802515