K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Mrs H took out a store card in 2002. At the same  time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy  cost £1 per £100 of the balance  on Mrs Hs store  card. A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Mrs H was unable  to work  due to accident or sickness  or lost her job. The benefit  
would continue to be paid until Mrs H returned  to work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld because  she thought Mrs H 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the cover and thought it provided a useful 
benefit to Mrs H.
Mrs H disagrees.  She says she wasnt given any information on the policy  and didnt need it.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Mrs H applied for a store card.  FICL  have  given us a 
copy of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application 
form that deal with card protection and additional  card holders have been left blank. 
But I can see that Mrs H has signed  for PPI under  the words (Only sign this box if you 
require Account Cover)  Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover 
If Mrs H didnt want to take out PPI she couldve  left this section blank like the others and not 
signed to take the cover.  Because she signed within the PPI section  rather  than leaving it 
clear, I think  its likely Mrs H knew she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think  she 
signed within the box because she wanted the cover.
I dont think Mrs H was advised  to take the cover. What this means  is that FICL didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs H, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow 
Mrs H to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account.  But I cant say 
whether this information was good  enough. That being said even if FICL  did give all the 
information Mrs H needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy,  I think she 
wouldve still taken the policy  because at the time of sale:
Ref: DRN79515032She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs H says she was entitled to a generous  level of sick pay 
which would cover her repayments  if she was unable  to work. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer as well as covering her 
in the situation she lost her job. So I dont think knowing this information  wouldve 
changed her mind about taking  the policy and I think the policy wouldve provided a 
useful benefit  for her in her circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs H especially 
considering she only paid less than a £1 for it over the lifetime of the policy and if she 
no longer wanted the policy she was able to cancel it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs H on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of 
value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint against  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7951503