K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs A says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs A took out on a store  card account  in July 2000.  It 
was added to her account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made Mrs A aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given  us a copy of the store  card application form 
from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented 
as optional. Mrs A signed separately  for the PPI policy and also on the application form to say 
she consented to the information contained in it. So I think this reflected what she wanted.  Had 
Mrs A not wanted the PPI she could have  completed  the application without signing separately 
agreeing to have  it.
So, on balance,  I think Mrs A was aware  the policy was optional  and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing  it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs A completing  an application in a store.  So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation  was made  by FICL.  So FICL didnt have to check  if the policy 
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make  sure it gave Mrs A enough  information  to 
make an informed choice  whether  the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs A would have acted differently and not bought the policy, 
if better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think better  information  
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs A has told us she had 6 months  full and 6 months half sick pay along with around £800 
in savings to repay  the monthly repayment on the card. But this policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any provisions  Mrs A would receive.  I think the PPI could have been useful to her 
in that her store card payments would be met. It also would have  provided  additional cover if 
Mrs A lost her job. 
Ref: DRN71428672There was a term within the policy document around  pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
may have  put Mrs A off from buying it. I say this because Mrs A had a medical condition  at 
the time.  But Mrs A has told our service that at the time of sale the condition was controlled  
so I dont think any clearer information would have put her off from having  the PPI policy.  I 
also couldnt see any other significant or limiting terms that would have affected Mrs As 
decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs As decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs As comments provided by her representatives, but for the 
reasons mentioned above, these points  dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142867