K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained that NewDay Ltd (Aqua)  has told him his account is in arrears,  even
though the interest has been frozen.  He would like the debt to be written  off. He feels Aqua
has discriminated against him, provided  him with poor service and mismanaged his payment
plan.
background 
facts
Mr H has a credit card account with Aqua. This fell into arrears and a payment plan was
agreed. This included a payment holiday, following an accident  Mr H suffered. During this
period, Aqua  agreed not to contact Mr H, but it seems some letters were sent. Aqua
apologised for this and offered Mr H £50 compensation. It subsequently agreed to stop
pursuing Mr H for the debt, and to review  the situation in May 2019.
Mr H was unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service.  One of our
investigators looked at what  had happened. She didnt feel Mr H had been  discriminated
against. She felt that Aqua had behaved fairly and handled the repayment  plan reasonably.
She agreed  that Aqua had contacted Mr H when it shouldnt, but thought the £50 it had
offered was fair to address this aspect of his complaint. She also though the further  £50 it
credited to him by calling him, not writing,  was fair.
Mr H disagreed and asked that his complaint be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  Since his
complaint has been passed to me, Mr H has explained to us that he has been badly affected
by the coronavirus  pandemic, as he has serious  underlying health conditions,  so his ability  to
work has been restricted.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, to set out my thinking and give Mr H and Aqua the 
opportunity to respond with anything further.
My provisional decision said as follows:
First, I am very sorry to hear about  the stress Mr H has been  under due to his health
conditions. I know things  must be very difficult,  especially  given the situation with
coronavirus. I appreciate  it must be a very worrying time. Id like to assure  Mr H that Ive 
taken into account  all of his submissions. Although I will not refer to every  piece of
correspondence, I have  carefully considered everything he has provided.
I have focussed  on the two issues  that I consider go to the heart  of this complaint. These
are: (i) discrimination;  and (ii) poor customer service, including  mismanagement  of the
repayment plan.
Turning first to the issue of discrimination. Its not for me to decide whether  or not Mr H has
been discriminated against. Thats the role of the courts. However, I am required to take into
account the law, which  includes the Equality  Act 2010. I then need to decide if I think  Aqua
has behaved fairly.
Im satisfied, for the purposes of this complaint, that Mr H has a disability. This means that
Ref: DRN79677572any action Aqua takes must be a proportionate  way of achieving  a legitimate aim. Here,  it
has contacted  Mr H to explain what monies  were  due. This was done periodically  and I dont
think was a course of conduct that was unreasonable. The money  was owing and I think  it
was fair that Mr H was kept informed about how much this was. That said, I do think  contact
was made  in two instances, when it wasnt appropriate. I will address this below, when I look
at customer service, because I consider it to relate to that, rather than to Mr H being
discriminated against.
Mr H feels his health hasnt been taken into account.  I disagree. Aqua has consistently
looked at repayment plans and a repayment  holiday.  It also suspended collection activity
and agreed to review  this. Accordingly,  I think it has taken into account his ability to repay
the debt. I dont think this means it needs  to go as far as writing off the debt.  I would expect it
to take into account  his ability to repay  and act accordingly  which  it has done.
Im aware that coronavirus  may likely also be affecting Mr Hs ability  to repay on an ongoing
basis. So, I would expect  Aqua to keep  matters under review.
I turn now to customer service and the management  of the repayment plan. Mr H had 
concerns that at one point he was paying back £15 a month. But I think  Aqua was
entitled to consider this is what Mr H had offered, as he said:
OFFER FOR  6 to 12 months + £15.00 per month
Or if Reul (?) pro rata with other  creditors it will only be £7.00 per month.
So, I dont think Aqua did anything wrong  here.
Aqua also reduced  Mr Hs credit limit. But I think this was reasonable. He was in a
repayment plan and the reduction helped to avoid  further debt accruing.
Ive reviewed the correspondence  between  Aqua  and Mr H, including  by telephone. I havent
found any instances of Aqua being  rude or unprofessional.
However, Mr H was contacted during his repayment holiday in 2017.  Later  he was contacted
by phone not letter, contrary to his wishes. Further, there were occasions  where  Aqua did
not respond to each  piece of Mr Hs correspondence, and on one occasion sent him a
default letter. It has apologised for these errors and credited  his account with £100  in total. I
think this fair to take into account these errors.
For these reasons, I dont  think  Aqua has behaved  unfairly. Although there were some
errors, I consider the compensation paid to be appropriate  to address these.
responses to my provisional  decision
Aqua didnt add anything  further.
Mr H disagreed with my provisional  findings. In summary,  he doesnt think  Ive taken his 
health conditions  seriously, and that he has to give up work  because of the severe risk 
coronavirus poses to his health.
Ref: DRN79677573my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from my provisional decision. I know this will be very 
disappointing for Mr H. But I explained  in my provisional decision why I dont think  Aqua has 
behaved unreasonably regarding Mr Hs health conditions,  and that Id expect it to keep 
matters under review  as regards his ability to repay and coronavirus. I have looked very 
carefully at Mr Hs submissions, and have taken everything hes said seriously.  Im very 
sorry to hear about his health and Im also sorry to disappoint him further.  That is not my 
intention. But Ive explained  why I think what Aqua  has done  is fair, and nothing further has 
persuaded me to depart from this.
my final decision
My final decision is that the £100 total compensation NewDay  Ltd has paid to Mr H is
fair. I am not requiring  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7967757