K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Santander UK Plc allowed the joint account holder to cancel  more  than 
one direct debit, on more than one occasion, even though the account  was in dispute.
 
background
In January 2019, Santander placed the joint bank account in dispute following Ms Rs 
instruction.
In May, Ms R received letters from her local council  and from her life insurance  provider  to 
say her direct debit payments had been cancelled. Ms R then called Santander to find out 
what had happened. During  this call, Ms R was informed that the other account holder called 
and cancelled the direct  debit on 7 May.  
Santander apologised, reinstated the direct debits and offered £100  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with this, Ms R brought this complaint to us and set out the reasons why she felt 
£100 was not a reasonable  offer.  Ms R was seeking  £308 for the two missed  council tax 
payments.
Whilst this matter was with our investigator, the joint account holder was allowed to cancel 
direct debits again. This resulted in further calls being made by Ms R and extra steps  being  
taken to ensure  the payments were made. 
Ms Rs council tax payments increased  (the missed payment  was spread across three 
months payments) and her life insurance  policy was cancelled  due to the missed payments. 
After taking further steps, Ms R was able to get her life insurance policy  reinstated, but she 
had to make  two months payments  in one month.  Our investigator recommended  Santander  
pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Santander disagreed with this recommendation. They explained  that as there  were  
insufficient funds  in the account on both occasions, Ms R would have incurred charges in 
any case, if additional funds had not been paid into the account. They explained that a 
couple of the direct  debits hadnt been requested by the local council and so the 
non-payment was not in that instance  due to a bank error. 
Santander also stated  that a dispute  marker  on an account should be temporary,  and that 
the account holders should  either close the account  or have a name removed. It described 
this as a civil matter that needs to be rectified. That said, as a goodwill gesture, they 
increased their offer to £150.
Ms R was unhappy with this, and so this has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander accept  that on the two occasions  the direct debits were  cancelled, the joint 
account holder  should not have  been  able to do this without  consent from Ms R. 
Ref: DRN78225802The call handlers note from the call Ms R made to find out why her direct debits had been 
cancelled (the first time), makes it clear that Ms R was very upset  and angry at what had 
been allowed  to happen. Specific steps were  taken to put things in place with Santander, to 
avoid this sort of issue occurring. 
Ms R was concerned that the joint account holder may try to make  changes to the account.  
For this to have happened  on two separate  occasions  compounds  Ms Rs distress.  Whilst I 
do acknowledge that having the account  closed or having one of the names  removed from 
the account would resolve  the matter,  this is not the situation presently. Ms R placed her 
trust in Santander to manage the disputed account  appropriately and this was broken, twice. 
I need to consider the impact of this on Ms R. Not just from a financial perspective, but I 
must also consider  the distress and inconvenience caused.
Firstly, I appreciate Ms R feels she has lost out financially as she had to make payments 
from her other account. But as these are payments that would have had to have been made 
in any case, I do not agree that there  has been any financial  loss. 
Ms R is now having to make increased  monthly payments to her local council  and has said 
this is causing  her stress and worry. Whilst I understand that the local council did not request 
the payments,  it is unclear whether the direct debits being cancelled  caused this interruption.  
That said,  I must also consider the point Santander has made  regarding  there being 
insufficient funds  in the account on both occasions. The issue  here is not whether there  were  
sufficient funds in the account, that is a separate matter. The complaint is that Santander 
allowed the joint account holder to cancel these direct debits twice, and the impact this has 
had. It is this that has caused  Ms R additional  distress, during what is already  a difficult time 
due to her personal  circumstances  involving  the joint account holder. 
 
I then need to consider Ms Rs life insurance policy. It is not uncommon  for policies to be 
terminated if monthly payments are not made,  so I am pleased  that Ms R was able to get her 
policy reinstated. Im sure that the possibility of not being able to do that would have been 
upsetting to Ms R and caused much concern. 
Having to make two payments in one month in order to ensure her policy  is reinstated, will 
be an inconvenience to Ms R. However, these are payments she would have had to make 
previously, if the direct  debits had not been cancelled. The main point here, is that the 
cancellation of the life insurance policy direct debit had a direct impact on Ms Rs policy. 
Although this has been reinstated, I cannot  ignore the fact that it was cancelled. Thankfully 
the life insurance  was not called upon,  however there was a period for which Ms R was not 
covered, which  would have been  an extreme worry. The consequences  could  have been  
devastating, if the life insurance was needed  during that time. 
I think Santander increasing their offer to £150 may have been more  suitable if this had 
happened once.  Given that this happened twice, I do not think  they have gone far enough 
when considering the impact on Ms R. With the distress and inconvenience Ms R has 
experienced, a payment of £250 would be a fair and reasonable outcome.  
Ref: DRN78225803my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I have decided to uphold  this complaint. I direct Santander UK 
Plc to make a payment  of £250 to Ms R, for the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Chantelle Sayles
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7822580