K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a regular monthly premium  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage.
background
In 1990 Mr F purchased  a PPI policy. The PPI included cover  for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The policy cost £35 each month and wouldve provided a monthly benefit to 
cover at least his mortgage payments for up to 24 months following a successful  claim.
The policy was cancelled in January 2001  when the mortgage  was redeemed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint but Mr F disagreed  with this. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr Fs 
case.
Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were  taken out nearly  30 years ago and the policy  was cancelled 
more than 15  so its unsurprising neither party has been able to provide much detailed 
information about the sale. And in these  situations, I have to look at what I think is more 
likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mr F has given  his honest  recollections of the sale but I have to accept that 
after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence whatsoever 
to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr F didnt have a choice in taking it out. Ive 
also been provided with a sample application  form that Santander says wouldve been 
similar to the one completed by Mr F and Santander  in 1990 and Im satisfied that the PPI 
was something that a customer could choose  to take or leave. So with the very limited  
information I do have  and from what I know about Santander PPI sales around  this time, I 
cant fairly say that Mr F didnt have a choice about  taking it.
Santander recommended  the PPI. So it had to take adequate steps to make  sure it was 
suitable for Mr F. I dont  know  what the adviser said to Mr F about PPI or whether Santander 
did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. Because  even if 
Santander didnt  take adequate steps,  I think the PPI was suitable  for him for the following 
reasons. 
Mr F met the PPIs  requirements, so was eligible for it. And Ive set out the PPIs 
costs and main benefits above.
Mr F was working at the time and he says he had some occupational benefits  from 
his employer if he were off work sick. But this doesnt automatically mean that the 
policy was unsuitable. This is because were  he unable  to work, the PPI was intended  
to remove the additional  pressure of maintaining  mortgage repayments, at what  
Ref: DRN79530582would likely  be a difficult time. And I understand Mr F was solely responsible  for the 
mortgage repayments.
Mr F told us that he couldve relied  on his family  for help.  Whilst I understand the 
point he seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that his family wouldve been in 
a position to help at some unknown point in the future.
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years  and the PPI wouldve paid the 
monthly mortgage costs  for up to 24 months  for each successful claim  and on top 
of any other  cover he may have had. So I dont think any existing cover or savings 
Mr F may have had wouldve made the PPI unsuitable.
Nothing Mr F told us suggested  he needed  to keep his costs  down. And there wasnt  
anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr F to claim. For example,  he said 
he was in work and in good health  when the PPI was sold. So he wouldnt have been 
affected by things in it about unusual work or known health issues.  
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr F before he 
agreed to purchase  it. I dont know if he was told it would cost £35 each month  until 
after the policy had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost wouldve affected his decision to purchase the policy. He 
had chosen to take out the policy, knowing  he would  have to pay something  for it. 
The policy was competitively priced  and apparently  affordable. So I think it unlikely he 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information about the cost had been  
provided.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable  for Mr F.
Santander needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits,  exclusions and limitations.  It 
hasnt told us anything  that shows what was actually  said to Mr F about this. So I cant  say 
its likely  Santander did give Mr F everything  he needed to know before deciding to take PPI.
But did Mr F lose out as a result - would he have taken the PPI if Santander had properly  
told him about it?
Ive explained  why I think the PPI was suitable. Given his circumstances at the time I think 
Mr F wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect  the repayments on his home. 
And that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So I dont  think  
Mr F lost out. Because I think he wouldve taken the PPI if hed been given enough proper 
information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium  policy,  if Mr F decided that 
the cost was unaffordable, or that he no longer  wanted the policy,  he couldve cancelled it 
without penalty.
Ref: DRN79530583my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7953058