K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr C says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr C took the PPI when  he applied for his credit  card by post. His credit card application 
form had equally noticeable  boxes for Mr C to tick to say yes or no to PPI. So I think 
Capital One made it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI. And Mr C ticked  the box 
to say yes to PPI, so I think he chose to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C - so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Mr C says Capital One gave him very poor information about the PPI and he says he would 
not have taken the PPI if hed had better information  about  it. So Ive thought about whether 
better or fuller information about  the PPI wouldve put Mr C off taking  the cover.
Mr C was entitled to only three months  full sick pay from his employer. The PPI would pay 
out for up to twelve months for a successful claim for sickness  or for unemployment. Mr C 
says redundancies dont happen in his line of work. Also he worked for his employer for 
many years after the sale. But Im not persuaded that what Mr C has said about  his industry 
or his employer means he couldnt have suffered redundancy.
Also Mr C chose  to take the cover when he applied for the credit card. So it looks like he did 
want to take some type of payment protection cover at the time. And from what  Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover that he took - so if something went wrong the cover would have been useful 
for him. Mr C had some  savings of his own. Hes also said he could rely on family help 
instead. But other peoples circumstances and ability to help can change. 
Taking everything into account,  on balance I dont think better information about the cover 
wouldve changed Mr Cs decision to take it.
What Ive said above means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr C. But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN78859172To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Cs points, including what hes said about having other PPI policies 
refunded. But, for the reasons Ive given above,  my conclusion is that Capital One doesnt  
have to pay back all of the PPI premiums.  The fact Mr C may have had other  PPI policies 
refunded in full doesnt change my view.  So, for this reason  and the reasons Ive already  
given, these points  dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. If Mr C needs the cheque  to be reissued  for 
any reason, he should  contact Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7885917