K821x#15Mr D and Ms J are seeking to recover £8,000 from TSB Bank  plc (TSB),  which was stolen 
from their account as a result of a third-party scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mr D unwittingly authorised the payment   
and it could not reasonably have intervened  or done  more  than it did to try to recoup the 
money from the receiving  bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the complaint  should be upheld for the following reasons:
It is not disputed  that Mr D authorised the scam payment of £8,000. He was in the 
process of paying  a deposit for some building work that was due to start on his home.  On 
16 April 2018, following a request for his builder to confirm  his account details, Mr D 
received an email which provided  what looked  like the account  details hed asked for. 
The email  appeared in a chain of others that Mr D had been responding to and appeared 
to come from the building  firm he had been in contact with.
On the same  day, Mr D transferred the money  as per the instructions he was sent.  He did 
so via his online banking where  he firstly  transferred the funds from his savings account to 
his current account.  He then set up a new payee  using the details hed been provided with 
in the email and transferred the money out of his account. 
When Mr D spoke with his builder  a few days later, he was asked again to transfer the 
initial payment  so the work could start. Mr D was surprised by this, he thought hed 
already transferred the payment. He told his builder hed already done so and showed 
him the emails theyd  shared.  It then came to light that the building  firm had not sent the 
latest emails containing  the account details  they were different to the original account 
details included in the builders payment proposal  that had been sent much  earlier.  And 
the £8,000 deposit  payment  had not been  paid into their account.  
Mr D had fallen victim to a sophisticated  scam  - the email Mr D received  was from a 
fraudster who had managed to send a fake email to Mr D  which  appeared to be just like 
genuine ones  sent by his builder and which appeared  to come from the same email  
address.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr D was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment online.  So, 
although he did not intend the money  to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions  of his account, Mr D and Ms J 
are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time, I 
consider TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to 
counter various  risks, including anti-money  laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing  fraud and scams.
Ref: DRN78337322Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined  to make a payment  altogether,  to help protect  
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
TSB initially declined  to refund Mr D the £8,000 as it didnt believe it had done anything 
wrong in carrying out Mr Ds instructions to make the payment.  It said there was nothing  
about the payment itself that shouldve put TSB on notice that Mr D and Ms J mightve 
been at risk of financial harm.
TSB said it isnt unusual for its customers to transfer  money from their savings (or 
other accounts) in order to then pay for a large  purchase. And in this case,  Mr D had a 
specific account that hed been  using to save for the proposed building work.  It also 
said that Mr D held a number of accounts  with TSB, some  of which  hed previously 
used to make similar  high value transactions. So, transferring large amounts wouldnt 
have stood out as unusual  for Mr D - if all of his account activity was taken into 
consideration. 
TSB went on to say that even if the transfer had triggered its fraud monitoring systems 
and prompted  a discussion with Mr D, the scam still wouldnt  have  been  uncovered.  
Mr D would simply have explained what the payment was for and confirmed it was 
genuine. TSB wouldnt have known Mr Ds builders account details  had been  
changed. And so, TSB could not have prevented the scam. But I dont  agree  with TSB 
and Id like to explain why.
Im satisfied a payment  of £8,000 was unusual for Mr D and uncharacteristic  for this 
particular account - there had been  no comparable legitimate payments in recent  times. 
The largest transaction that left this account in the months  leading up to the scam,  
appears to be a monthly mortgage payment which equates  to c£2,000, a quarter of the 
value of the payment now in question.  I also dont  think it would be reasonable to 
compare the activity on this account to the activity on Mr Ds other  accounts.  This is the 
account in question. And even if I were to do so, there doesnt appear to be any 
comparable legitimate payments from these accounts either - the payment here is twice 
the value of any payment  that left his other accounts  too. Its also been made to a new 
payee. And so Im satisfied TSB ought  fairly  and reasonably, and as a matter of good 
practice, to have  done more here - I think it ought to have made  enquiries about the 
purpose of and the circumstances leading up to the payment before it processed  it. 
TSB has commented that it had an obligation to debit its customers accounts in line with 
its customers mandate and by allowing  the payment to leave the account here, it was 
simply following Mr Ds payment  instruction.  I accept  there  is a balance to be struck 
between identifying potentially fraudulent  payments and minimising disruption  to legitimate 
Ref: DRN78337323payments. But Im satisfied that if TSB had contacted Mr D in this particular case, the scam  
would have been revealed  and prevented.  Ill explain.
Mr D fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  invoice  intercept. And its a 
type of scam Im satisfied TSB ought  to have  been aware of at the time. And I agree with 
TSB that had it contacted Mr D, he would most likely  have told TSB he was intending to 
pay for some building work he was having completed on his home. But, at this point, 
being aware of the prevalence of this type of scam and its common  characteristics, TSB 
wouldve had the opportunity to question him further.
A particularly  common feature of this type of scam, is that a customer will receive an 
email that appears  to be from the genuine  business they are in contact with. This email 
will contain  either updated payment details or the payment details previously provided 
will have been subtly changed - unbeknown to the customer, in order to redirect  the 
payment to a fraudulent account.
This is a common scam with very particular  characteristics, and Im satisfied TSB ought  
fairly and reasonably to have asked Mr D how the payment details had been communicated  
to him. Mr D wouldve told the bank theyd been  sent to him by his builder, by email. And 
TSB couldve questioned if the account  details hed been provided  with were different to 
those hed received  in the past.  
TSB could  then have  educated Mr D about  this type of scam and its key characteristics. 
Crucially, TSB could have  asked  him to check  before  continuing with the transfer - it 
couldve advised Mr D to contact his builder using an established contact  number to confirm 
the account details were  correct. Had TSB done  so, Im persuaded that this would likely 
have produced some doubt in Mr Ds mind that the payment details may not be legitimate, 
and he wouldve contacted his builder before proceeding with the payment.  After all, this 
was a significant amount of money and Mr D may not have  been  aware  previously that this 
type of scam was even possible. Im persuaded that once informed of this, he would have 
taken some steps to verify the account  details provided to him  had Mr D done so, Im 
persuaded that the scam would have been  prevented and no loss occurred.
In summary,  Im persuaded  TSB ought fairly and reasonably  to have encouraged Mr D to 
confirm the account details  hed been  sent. His circumstances had all of the hallmarks  of 
a well-known scam. And TSB should  have explained  the risks of scams involving the 
interception, altering and hacking of emails which would have prompted further action 
from him. In other words, if TSB had carried out further or better  questioning  in line with a 
banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr D would have contacted  his builder  just to 
make sure everything was as it should be. At this point, the scam would have come to 
light. The fraud would have failed; and Mr D and Ms J would not have lost £8,000.
However, by the time the scam came to light, there was only £224.65 left in the 
beneficiary account  which the receiving bank said it would refund to Mr D and Ms J 
if TSB raised  an indemnity on their behalf.  Given that the majority  of the funds had 
already been removed  by the time TSB were  made aware of the scam,  TSB could not 
recover any more of Mr D and Ms Js funds than those that remained.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have  made  no difference  because the recipient 
Ref: DRN78337324banks records show that the scammers  withdrew  nearly all the money before Mr D had 
notified TSB of his concerns.
I have also considered whether Mr D should bear some responsibility for his loss. However, 
it is clear that up to and including  the time of authorising the payment, he was still totally in 
the dark and simply did not appreciate  what he was doing  he thought he was making a 
legitimate payment to a business he had been in regular contact with. I am satisfied  there 
was no contributory  negligence on this occasion, Mr D was the unwitting and blameless 
victim of a clever fraudster. The bank  was the professional in financial matters;  Mr D was a 
layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr D and 
Ms J for the loss suffered  without any reduction, together with interest to compensate  them 
for being deprived of the money they lost. 
It is not clear  if the £224.65 that remained in the receiving account  has already been 
returned to Mr D and Ms J or not. And so TSB will need to take this into account when 
calculating its offer. I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money  from Mr D 
and Mrs J, they wouldve  used it for its intended purpose,  to pay their builder, and so 
interest should be calculated at a rate of 8% simple  per annum.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against TSB Bank plc and direct  it to:
refund  Mr D and Ms J the £8,000  lost as part of the scam  minus the remaining 
£224.65 if this has already  been returned;  and
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the payment left 
the account to the date of settlement*;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 February  2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
* TSB may be required by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from the interest.  If it does, and if Mr 
D and Ms J request it, TSB should provide them with a certificate showing  how much tax has been  taken off, so 
they may reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7833732