K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr L. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2011.  Capital One says it sold 
Mr L the policy during  a telephone call when the credit card was activated. Mr L disagrees 
and says he did everything online. Ive not resolved that difference of evidence, as it doesnt  
make a difference to my assessment of the complaint  as I explain below. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr L and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Capital One probably made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. From 
information the ombudsman service has about  sales scripts used during telephone 
sales, it is likely that the sales adviser  would have made clear that customers  had a 
choice about taking PPI. And, similarly from what we know  about  the internet 
application process used by Capital  One at the time, again the customer  would have 
had to make an active choice to take PPI. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being  particularly suitable  for Mr Ls 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Capital One explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Capital  One gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I dont  think, in Mr Ls circumstances,  full information about  costs and 
benefits would have affected  whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like hed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mr L, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN76192752To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7619275