K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) gave her loans that were  
unaffordable.
background
Between 2013 and 2018 Ms F borrowed four loans from Mr Lender as follows:
Loan No. Amount Date lent Date repaid No of rollovers
1 £300 12.4.13 29.11.13 7
2 £450 23.12.13 30.4.14 3
3 £700 30.4.14 31.7.14 2
4 £700 2.7.18 - -
Ms F feels that Mr Lender didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  before 
agreeing to provide the loans. If it had, she believes it wouldve seen that she was reliant  
upon payday loans and that she couldnt afford to repay these  loans in a sustainable 
manner.
Mr Lender is content that it did undertake adequate checks into Ms Fs circumstances and 
had satisfied itself that its loans  were  affordable to her.
Our adjudicator considered that Mr Lender wasnt wrong to provide loan one and that the 
first three repayment rollovers  were  acceptable.  However, she felt that it shouldnt have 
agreed to the subsequent rollovers, nor provided  loans two and three  (including  those 
rollovers). The adjudicator thought that Mr Lender  had done nothing wrong in agreeing to 
provide loan four. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Lender  should refund all interest and charges  that 
Ms F had paid in respect of loan one (from the fourth rollover), loan two and loan three  
together with interest on the refunds. And she said it should remove  the associated entries 
about those loans from Ms Fs credit file.
In response, Mr Lender offered  to refund all interest and charges for loan three and for the 
final four rollovers on loan one. Ms F didnt wish to accept that offer and so asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a decision. Subsequently  Mr Lender  has 
confirmed that it had investigated  the complaint further and would be willing to accept the 
adjudicators recommendations in full.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
Ref: DRN74662152number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required  to establish 
whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
loan one
Before agreeing this loan Mr Lender  asked Ms F for details of her income, living  costs and 
financial commitments. From this information the loan wouldve seemed affordable.  I think it 
was reasonable,  at that early stage  in the relationship,  for Mr Lender to rely upon the 
information Ms F had given to it. It follows that I think Mr Lenders  checks were 
proportionate.
Loan one was originally scheduled for repayment  in two instalments. However on the date 
that the first repayment fell due, the loan was rolled-over in return  for the payment  of 
additional interest. This then happened repeatedly, on a monthly basis, on a total of seven  
occasions. I think that, after the loan had been rolled-over three  times,  Mr Lender ought  to 
Ref: DRN74662153have realised that this was potentially problematic and a possible sign that Ms F was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
I think that, by this time, Mr Lender shouldve realised that further lending was unsustainable 
and so I dont  think that it shouldve  agreed to rollovers four to seven.
loans two and three
There was a gap of three weeks  between repayment of loan one and granting  of loan two. 
However I think that Mr Lender ought to have taken  into account the same considerations as 
outlined above.  I believe that the evident  difficulties Ms F encountered in repaying loan one 
shouldve led Mr Lender to see that this further  loan was likely to be unsustainable. The fact 
that this loan, too, was subsequently  extended by three rollovers confirms this.
Loan three was granted on the same day that loan two was repaid. And it was for a higher 
amount. Here again I think that Mr Lender shouldve continued to recognise  the signs that 
additional borrowing  was likely to be unsustainable  for Ms F.
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender  was right to provide loans two and three  (nor the 
associated rollovers).
loan four
There was then a gap of almost  four years  between loan three being repaid and loan four 
being given. I think that this is a sufficiently long period of time for Mr Lender  to have 
reasonably considered that Ms Fs financial circumstances  might have changed in the 
meantime. 
Ms F declared  to Mr Lender that her monthly salary  was £1,600  and her expenditure 
amounted to around £900. This left her with monthly  disposable income of around £700.  I 
think that in these circumstances it is reasonable for Mr Lender to rely upon the information it 
was given by Ms F. Against this I think the loan repayments wouldve appeared sustainable 
and so I dont  think that Mr Lender was wrong  to give this loan.
putting things right
I dont think that Mr Lender shouldve agreed  to lend to Ms F:
rollover four (on 31 July 2013) to rollover  seven,  inclusive, of loan one;
loans two and three  (including all rollovers).
To put things right Mr Lender should:
refund  all interest and charges Ms F paid on:
- loan one from rollover four (on 31 July 2013) to rollover seven;
- loan two, including all rollovers;
- loan three, including  both rollovers; 
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  these loans from Ms Fs credit file.
Ref: DRN74662154*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Ms Fs complaint and direct PDL Finance  Limited  to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7466215