K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about his home  insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited in respect of a 
settlement it made to him for a replacement kitchen   and the period over which  it paid him a 
disturbance allowance.
background
At the end of June 2017 Mr B contacted Fairmead  as hed noticed that a wall in his property, 
from the first floor, down through the kitchen and into the basement, was wet. Fairmead 
initially had some concerns that the damage  had been on-going  for a while  but in 
July/August 2017 it decided to accept the claim.  
Fairmead accepted  that the kitchen  as a whole needed to come  out to aid drying, with all of 
the wall plaster on the cooker wall needing  to be removed to the brickwork.  But in a scope 
completed in July 2017, before a drying  specialist was appointed and attended  in 
August 2017,  it was decided that only the carcasses of the wall units, one immediately to the 
left of, and the one above, the cooker needed  replacing.  
The kitchen was entirely stripped by the end of September 2017.  Fairmeads  contractor 
disposed of all of the kitchen units and worktops. In November 2017  the property was found 
to be dry and it was felt that reinstatement should  be completed by the end of January 2018.  
In December Mr B asked to be able to replace the kitchen worktop himself  and in 
January 2018  both parties agreed to settle  the claim for the kitchen in cash, with Fairmead 
completing other work at the property. At the end of February 2018 Fairmead offered Mr B 
around £850 for the kitchen replacement.  Whilst this was increased  at the end of 
March 2018 to £2,549.30  Mr B still felt this was insufficient. But on 5 April 2018 Mr B ordered 
and paid for a replacement  kitchen (costing  nearly £14,000 in total). The kitchen was 
reinstated, bar some finishing off work, by 4 May 2018.
Mr B complained to Fairmead and in July 2018  it issued a final response.  This focused on 
how the claim had been  handled, with apologies  and compensation offered. 
Mr B didnt complain to us following receipt of Fairmeads final response.  But he remained 
unhappy about the kitchen settlement and Fairmead  agreed  to review it. Mr B was also 
unhappy that whilst Fairmead had been  paying him a disturbance allowance for living  in a 
home without a kitchen,  this had stopped on 6 March 2018. In a further final response dated  
20 March 2019  Fairmead  told Mr B that most of his kitchen units had been undamaged and 
said it would  have refitted them except he had told its contractor to dispose of them. It said it 
would pay Mr B 50% of the cost of the undamaged parts of the kitchen (a further £608.58), 
but nothing more. It accepted there  had been some further poor service and offered £100 
compensation. Mr B complained to us. Regarding the disturbance allowance, Fairmead told 
us that this had stopped because it had agreed  to make a cash  settlement. 
Our investigator explained that she couldnt  look at how Fairmead had handled the claim 
before its final response issued in July 2018.  She said that regarding the payments 
Fairmead had made for the kitchen and disturbance allowance, she felt it had settled matters 
fairly. Mr B was unhappy  so his complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
I felt that Fairmead  should make an additional  payment to Mr B equivalent to what it would  
have cost it to replace  the whole kitchen,  less what it had already paid, but plus interest. 
I also felt it should  pay an additional disturbance allowance.  
Ref: DRN77115482In response to my findings Fairmead  told us that Mr B had asked it to dispose  of the units on 
27 March 2018.  It felt he knew he was going  to order  a new kitchen when he did this, as he 
ordered one just a week later. So, Fairmead said, the most  it should have to do is pay him 
half of what it would  have  cost it to replace the kitchen.  It argued that if I was still minded to 
make it pay in full, it shouldnt have to pay interest.  It said it accepted my findings  about the 
disturbance allowance.
Mr B said he accepted my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
Having carefully scrutinised the documents  and case notes Fairmead has provided I cant  
see that Mr B was ever told that only very limited parts of his kitchen were  damaged  beyond  
repair and that most  of it would be re-fitted as part of the reinstatement  work.  Whilst Mr B 
doesnt deny telling  the contractor to dispose  of the units, I havent seen that he did so 
knowing that Fairmead had intended to re-use them. I note there is no suggestion  or 
reference anywhere to the contractor, upon  receiving  a direction from Mr B to dispose of 
items they were ultimately meant to be re-fitting,  reverting to Fairmead  for advice or to at 
least let it know it had been asked to take action contrary to the repair agreement.  If 
Fairmead had wanted to re-use these items  it should have been clear  about this and/or its 
contractor should  not have disposed  of undamaged items without its authorisation. Mr B has 
had to replace  the kitchen in its entirety and I think Fairmed should pay on that basis.
Of course,  because Fairmead was prepared to complete work in the kitchen, it was only ever 
liable to settle in cash for the kitchen  at the price  it would have cost it for that work. So 
Fairmead wont have  to reimburse Mr Bs full outlay. But it will have  to calculate what 
replacing the kitchen  as a whole would have cost it, including VAT. It will then have to pay 
Mr B the full cost, less what it has already  paid. And interest* on the amount  it pays from 
5 April 2018 until settlement is made will have to be paid.  
Fairmead accepted  that Mr B was fairly  due a disturbance allowance  whilst his kitchen was 
out of action. Settling in cash didnt end that liability. Rather Fairmead  should  have continued  
to pay the allowance for a period until such a time as the disruption  should reasonably  have 
been resolved.  Following  its cash settlement  on 22 March 2018, I think  Mr B acted in a 
reasonable time to get his kitchen reinstated thereby resolving the disruption. Fairmead 
should pay an additional amount as a disturbance allowance, at the same rate as it did 
before, for the period 7 March 2018  4 May 2018.
As our investigator explained, I cant look at how Fairmead generally handled the claim in 
the period before its July 2018 final response. Following that it seems it took Fairmead a 
very long time to review the kitchen settlement and it was only into 2019 that it established it 
hadnt ever even looked to offer Mr B an amount for the matching but undamaged parts  of 
the kitchen. I accept this was frustrating for Mr B. But I note that Fairmead did offer £100 
compensation in its March  2019 final response  and I think  that was fair and reasonable. I say 
that bearing in mind  that Mr B was able to replace his kitchen despite Fairmeads unfair 
settlement and, given  what  he spent in doing  so, even a fair settlement from Farimead 
Ref: DRN77115483would have left him with a significant  sum to find. So, I dont intend to make it pay more 
compensation.
I note Fairmeads comments about  the date it says Mr B asked it to dispose  of the kitchen. 
But I also note its provided no evidence to support this comment. And the date of disposal,  
or the request for it, wasnt  clearly shown by its original file submissions. But what  was clear, 
and Ive noted again upon review, is that on 19 March  2018 Fairmead  made enquiries of its 
contractor as Mr B had told it, seemingly in response to a settlement offer being  made  for 
replacing part of the kitchen which he felt was too low, that all of the units had been disposed  
of by the contractor  because  they were damaged. The contractor then replied about an hour 
and a half later, confirming that the units had been  disposed of but at Mr Bs request. So the 
request cant have been made by Mr B on 27 March 2018, when confirmation was given on 
19 March 2018  that disposal had taken  place at some previous point.
Nothing Fairmead has said gives me cause to change my view initially stated. I remain  of the 
view that Mr B wasnt given adequate  advice by either Fairmead or its contractor and that he 
had to replace  his entire kitchen as a result. Furthermore, whilst his act of doing that did 
forestall further inconvenience being suffered, it meant he was out of pocket for the price of 
the kitchen installation. Im satisfied  that Fairmead is reasonably liable for at least  part of that 
outlay  what it would have cost it to replace the kitchen on a like for like basis. Therefore, 
an award of interest  is also fair and reasonable in the circumstances. My provisional 
findings, as set out above, which included commentary and an award in respect of a 
disturbance allowance, now form part of the findings  of this, my final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr B:
An amount  equivalent  to what it would  have cost it to replace the entire  kitchen, including 
VAT but less what has been  paid already, plus interest* from 5 April 2018  until 
settlement is made.
An amount  as a disturbance allowance, calculated at the same rate as that previously 
paid, against the period 7 March 2018  4 May 2018 (inclusive).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr B, 
it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7711548