K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains AXA Insurance  UK Plc hasnt paid his full cancellation  claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
background
Mr A was due to go on holiday with his family  in late August  2010.  But his son fell ill shortly  
before the trip and was unable to travel. Also, Mr As personal circumstances changed the 
day before  his trip, and he was unable to leave the country. It also meant  he couldnt cancel 
the trip at that time.
Mr A says the following years were  difficult.  And he wasnt in a position to make  a claim 
under his policy until 2010. It was at this time he remembered  he had a travel  insurance 
policy through his bank  account.
Initially AXA declined Mr As claim. Thats because AXA wasnt  satisfied  Mr As son wasnt fit 
to travel at the time of the trip. They  also explained Mr As personal circumstances werent 
covered under the policy. Mr A provided  additional  information  to support his booking  and 
sons illness. After considering this AXA agreed to cover the majority of Mr As claim. The 
only part it wasnt prepared to cover  were five days of hotel costs.  AXA said the hotel was 
booked after Mr A would have been aware  his son wasnt well enough to travel.
Mr A disagreed, and provided an invoice from a travel agent dated the end of June 2010. He 
provided another invoice, from the same  travel agent, dated the start of August  before his 
son was ill. AXA thought these invoices looked very similar and wanted to check their 
authenticity. AXA contacted the hotel directly, but the hotel said it didnt have  records  from 
2010. AXA then contacted  the travel agent.  But AXA said the travel agent  wouldnt confirm 
who they were or engage in conversation. AXAs investigations also showed  the travel  agent 
wasnt registered as a business until 2015.  So it couldnt be certain the travel  agent was in 
business in 2010, when  Mr A booked his trip.
AXA said it couldnt be satisfied the hotel was booked before Mr As son became ill. And it 
didnt settle that part of Mr As claim.  Mr A came to our service because  he was unhappy 
with this decision.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. He said due to the time that had passed,  it 
wasnt unreasonable that AXA needed more information than normal to consider  the claim.  
He also didnt think AXA acted unreasonably by not settling the hotel  costs  after considering 
the lack of information from the travel agent.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint  was passed to me to look into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not minded to uphold  
Mr As complaint. I know  this will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain my 
reasoning below.
As mentioned above, AXA has paid the majority  of Mr As claim. The outstanding costs 
relate to the hotel  for the last part of Mr As trip. AXA hasnt covered these because  it cant 
Ref: DRN74924282be certain the hotel  was booked before Mr A was aware he couldnt travel. In particular, 
before he was made aware his son was unwell. Thats because  the first booking invoice sent 
to AXA was dated the same day Mr A was made aware of his sons illness.
Mr A says he had to use the help of a friend and travel agent to arrange  the final part of his 
trip. And in doing so, he sent money to his friend  who lived in the country he planned  to visit. 
This friend would then contact the travel  agent and make payment. Mr A had to arrange his 
trip this way to prevent  being scammed, and to avoid difficulties in making  card payments to 
his holiday destination.  Mr A sent AXA,  and us, copies of his banks statements from around 
the time he was planning his trip. This shows he made a number of transfers  and cash  
withdrawals before his son became unwell.
Mr A says the initial transfer to his friend to cover the hotel costs was made  in June 2010. 
But sometime after this, Mr A decided  to change hotels for security reasons and because  he 
wanted a family size room. The initial amount he had paid wasnt enough  to cover the costs 
of the new hotel. Mr A told us his friend  was away at the time he decided to change hotels. 
His friend also didnt  have access to his accounts  at the time. So Mr A waited until his friend 
visited the UK in early  August  2010.  Mr A then withdrew the additional  funds needed to 
cover the costs of the new hotel, and gave  them  to his friend.
In his correspondence to AXA and our service, Mr A has said hotels in his final holiday  
destination wont confirm  reservations until theyve received  payment.  As mentioned  above,  
Mr A told us that he had to withdraw additional  funds in August to pay for the hotel. This 
means its more likely than not that the hotel  wasnt booked before August. The first hotel 
invoice AXA received was dated the same  day Mr A found out his son was ill. After AXA 
questioned the timing  of the booking,  Mr As travel agent sent him two further invoices. One 
was dated the end of June showing partial  payment. The second invoice was dated  the day 
after Mr A withdrew the additional funds given to his friend during his stopover in the UK. 
This invoice  showed  the remaining balance for the hotel had been  paid.  
For me, the crux of this complaint is whether it was reasonable  for AXA to request further 
information before accepting  Mr As claim.  Given what weve  been  told, I dont consider AXA 
acted unfairly when you consider what weve been  told about the hotel booking process and 
the dates of the invoices. AXA tried contacting the travel agent to get clarification  on what  
happened when  they booked the hotel on Mr As behalf. And I consider that was the right 
thing to do in the circumstances. Two different handlers at AXA tried calling the telephone 
number provided  by the travel agent. But neither of them  were  able to speak with someone 
to discuss Mr As booking. Mr A has said AXA should have communicated  with the travel 
agent by email when  the calls were  unsuccessful.  But AXA were concerned about 
documentation from the travel agent.  And I can understand why they had some questions. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to request a discussion about  what happened,  
rather than relying on written correspondence  with the travel  agent. 
It took a long time for Mr A to find out AXAs  final position on his claim. And this would have 
been frustrating,  and upsetting. I say that having considered the circumstances that 
prevented him from travelling. But it is for a policyholder to prove their claim. I can see Mr A 
co-operated with AXA and provided all the information he could. And the time that had 
passed made this difficult. However, I cant fairly say AXAs  need  for further information was 
unreasonable, for the reasons mentioned above.  And with that in mind, I dont consider AXA 
did anything wrong  when it declined Mr As claim  for hotel costs for the final part of his trip.
Ref: DRN74924283Taking everything into consideration, I wont be asking AXA to do anything to put things 
right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7492428