K820x#14complaint
Miss B took out a packaged bank account (PBA) with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
from June 2000  for which she was charged a monthly fee. She says it was mis-sold.
background
Miss B took out the following accounts  with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current November 1989 No
Current with overdraft March 1998 No
Additions June 2000 Yes
Current with overdraft November 2008 No
Miss B says that she was told she had to take out the Additions  PBA in order to keep an 
overdraft, and she has not otherwise used the benefits from it. The account change  
happened through a meeting with Barclays staff, and the initial fee was £6 per month  for the 
Additions account. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PBA was mis-sold but Miss B disagrees so the case  has 
come to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Bs complaint.
I need to clarify that Im only looking into the sale of the Additions PBA in this decision.  I note 
that Miss B has also raised an issue about the £5 charge for going  overdrawn on her 
previous fee free account. If Miss B wishes to complain about  this she would need  to take it 
up with Barclays and then come to this service only if it is unresolved. 
So in looking at Miss Bs complaint about  the Additions account sale I need  firstly  to consider 
two things; whether  she knew  she had a choice between taking out a fee free account or the 
Additions account she bought; and whether Barclays advised her to buy the Additions  
account or not. 
Miss B has been clear in her testimony  that she believes  that she was not given any choice  
as she was told that she could only continue her account with an overdraft if she took out the 
fee paying Additions account. Barclays says it did give Miss B a choice.
I dont doubt Miss Bs honest recollections  on this but I think its more likely than not that her 
memory is mistaken and she did know she had a choice. I say this because Miss B had 
previously had a fee free account  and an overdraft facility with Barclays for many  years so I 
think she would have  queried any advice that told her she had to pay a fee for an account. I 
have no systemic evidence from Barclays practices at the time that it wasnt  offering a 
choice. And I also think its more likely than not that Miss B would have known that fee free 
accounts with overdraft facilities were available from many other banks and building  
societies as these  were widely advertised and used. So I know  this will be disappointing for 
Ref: DRN70972502Miss B but Im not able to say that I think she was completely unaware she had other  options  
as I would have  to in order to uphold  her complaint on this point.
So I think Miss B did know she had a choice about whether to take out the Additions account 
and she chose to do so.
Did Barclays advise her to take out the Additions  account? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
Additions account to Miss B personally or advise  her to take it out. Miss B says that Barclays  
did advise her to take out the Additions  account. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Miss Bs needs  and circumstances  or suitability  checks  to show me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to her. I accept  its possible  that in 
providing information to Miss B and explaining  the benefits of the Additions account, Barclays 
may have  said or implied that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving 
personal recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of Barclays  sales  
practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the Additions 
account to Miss B on an information only basis. This means Barclays did not have  to ensure 
that the Additions account was suitable  for Miss B at the time of the sale.
So overall, I think Miss B was aware she had a choice  about whether to take out the PBAs,  
and the only requirement on Barclays was to provide her with enough information for her to 
make an informed choice.
Did Barclays provide  Miss B with enough information about the Additions account?
The Additions account benefits  included  purchase protection, cardholder  protection,  extended 
warranty, no fees for going overdrawn,  and a £100 interest free overdraft buffer.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Miss B although clearly Miss B did have  
substantial discussions with Barclays who were  trying  to sell her the account.
Barclays has provided evidence that Miss B had been going overdrawn regularly before the 
date of sale, and she would have paid a £5 fee per month  each time she did so. She also 
continued to go overdrawn  regularly for a substantial period after the sale.
So I  think its more likely  than not that when Barclays  explained that the Additions account 
had a monthly fee of only £1 more than she was being  charged for going overdrawn each 
month, and that there was an interest  free £100  overdrawn  buffer zone, this was of interest to 
her. And I think she saw it as useful enough  for her to decide to take out the account.
So in my view even  if Barclays  didnt  provide  Miss B with all the information about the 
Additions account I think its more likely than not Miss B wouldve chosen to take out the 
account due to the overdraft benefits.  
Ref: DRN70972503For completeness, Miss B has mentioned in her complaint  that she tried to close the Additions 
account before November  2008  but Barclays  wouldnt let her. Barclays  has checked its 
records and says it has no evidence  of any contact from Miss B to do this. And as Barclays did 
close the account in 2008 when she asked, I cant say I think its likely more likely  than not that 
Barclays wouldve refused  to close her account before as I would  need  to in order to uphold  
her complaint on this point.
So overall, I dont  think Miss B lost out in the Additions account sale, and I cant uphold  her 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097250