K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy with the valuation esure Insurance Limited has made of his car in a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr R was involved in an accident and his car was written off. He says esures offer for it is 
too low and isnt enough for him to obtain a like for like replacement. He wants it to increase  
its offer.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld  as esures offer was fair. She said 
esure had checked  the three  main  trade  guides  and they valued Mr Rs car at £780, £745 
and £706. So esures offer of £763  was in line with the guide prices.  She cant  agree that it 
should have to increase this offer.
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says he hasnt 
seen any car at this price  at a reputable dealer. In fact he hasnt seen anything for double 
the amount offered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  says esure will settle the claim by paying him the market value of his car at the 
time of loss. And that means the amount he couldve reasonably sold the car for on the open 
market before the accident. But that sum isnt necessarily the cost to Mr R of actually  
replacing the car. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  whose figures  are based on 
nationally recorded  sales. We will also look at any other evidence produced including  
adverts. But I place most weight on the values in the main  trade  guides  as theyre based on 
likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
esures offer. 
In this case esure found the value of Mr Rs car in the three main trade guides was between  
£706 and £780. And it offered him £763  which is slightly more than the average of them. I 
think that was fair.
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Mr Rs strength of feeling  and 
frustration, I dont think I can reasonably require esure to increase its valuation  as Mr R 
would like..
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN72897582Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7289758