K821x#15complaint
Ms G says Everyday Loans  Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  
with a personal loan.
background
Im aware that Ms G has two quite similar  complaints with us. So to be clear, this complaint 
is about a regular premium PPI policy  taken  out with a loan in September 2008. Ms G 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator wrote to Everyday Loans  in January 2019 saying he thought  we should 
uphold this complaint.  Everyday  Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided to uphold this particular complaint. Miss G will be receiving a letter about the 
other complaint separately.
I can see Ms G has provided a number of reasons  why she thinks  the policy was mis-sold to 
her. These included  that she didnt know it was optional and she didnt  need  it. 
I obviously cant say after this length of time what was actually  discussed  when the parties 
met. But the way the paperwork Ms G signed  was set out, strongly suggests to me she 
probably knew she had an option. To get the PPI, a box needed to be ticked and there was 
some information included which would have showed her a policy was being set up in her 
name. 
Ms Gs form had a tick in the yes box about PPI and the no box was left empty.  And as Ive 
said, she signed the form.
However, I think the way Everyday Loans  calculated the monthly  PPI premium was quite 
complicated. 
For example, the cost of the PPI policy was calculated as a percentage of the loan balance 
outstanding each month. This meant that the cost couldnt be shown as an accurate monthly 
premium at the time of sale because consumers paid more for their PPI at the beginning of 
their loan (when the balance was high) than at the end (when the balance  was low). So 
Everyday Loans  expressed the PPI charges as an average monthly  amount.
This means  Ms G wouldve  paid a lower proportion towards  the outstanding balance  of her 
loan - and a higher proportion in interest  - at the start of the loan term. Towards the end of 
the term the proportion of loan interest shed  pay off would  be higher. 
In some cases this wouldnt definitely mean the policy was mis-sold because  there are other 
factors to consider. But in this particular  case, I think it wouldve mattered.
Ref: DRN79504622I say this because  I can see Ms G already had other forms of borrowing including a current  
Everyday Loans  policy. So I think the chances  of her either needing, or wanting, to refinance 
her debts was much  higher at this moment in time.  And I think  any reasonable assessment  
of her circumstances  would have shown this was the case.
Everyday Loans  advised her to take this policy  out and so it had a duty to ensure it was 
suitable for her and that she received information  that was clear,  fair and not mis-leading. I 
dont think it did either  of these things and I think if Ms G had realised the borrowing was 
structured in this way, she wouldnt have wanted  the policy on this occasion. I think she 
would have thought it didnt fit her needs because of the likelihood  she might  want  to 
restructure her debts by paying this loan off early. And doing that would cost her more 
money because of the complicated way in which the cover  was set up.
So I think she would have  thought this PPI was poor value for money and Im therefore  
upholding her complaint.  
putting things right
Everyday Loans  should put Ms G in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Everyday Loans 
should:
Pay Ms G the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Everyday Loans  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. It can also take off any commission 
above 50% its paid back  to Ms G for this particular loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans must  give 
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Gs complaint. And I direct Everyday Loans 
Limited to put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7950462