K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Capital One (Europe)  plc (Capital One)  has used the 
compensation it offered to refund any excess commission he paid related  to a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M had a credit card with Capital One and alongside this he had a PPI policy  to protect his 
repayments. In 2013  Capital One sent Mr M a response to his complaint that the PPI was 
mis-sold and it didnt agree this to be the case.  
However following  a Supreme  Court case,  Capital  One was required to consider if any 
excess commission had been paid by Mr M as part of the PPI premiums  charged to his 
account. 
In November 2018 Capital One wrote to Mr M to say that it had worked  out he should get 
compensation of £428.93 (after tax) for the excess commission included in his PPI 
premiums. The letter said the commission amount  would first be set off against  any balance 
outstanding on the credit card to which the PPI related. As Capital One said the debt still on 
his credit card account was more than the compensation  due to him there was nothing  to 
pay directly to Mr M.
Mr M says this is unfair as he had been in an IVA which ended in 2012  and so he now owed 
nothing for his credit card debt. So he thought he should get the compensation paid directly  
to him. He has also referred  to the issue that the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator said we couldnt look at any issues about whether the PPI was mis-sold and 
what Capital One had paid and done with the compensation for the excess  commission was 
fair. 
Mr M didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M did not bring any issues to us in 2013 about what  Capital  One had said about the PPI 
not being mis-sold.  So I cannot now review or consider any issues about a mis-sale of the 
PPI as these were not raised within the required timescales after the decision by 
Capital One. 
As it is therefore deemed the PPI was not mis-sold Capital was required to consider if any 
excess commission had been paid by Mr M when the PPI was active on his account and the 
commission was part of the premiums he was paying. In this decision I am only looking at if 
what Capital One has done with the compensation it says is due for this excess  commission  
is fair.
Capital One worked  out any commission amount that was over 50% of the premium  paid for 
the PPI and also added any required interest on this when making its offer.  This is what  I 
Ref: DRN71513262would expect it to do. The issue Mr M is unhappy with is how Capital One has used the 
compensation offered. 
Mr M had defaulted on repaying the balance on his credit card and the PPI had been  
cancelled in November  2006. In November  2006  Mr M had also entered  an individual  
voluntary arrangement (IVA)  which ended in 2012.
Capital One has used the compensation due for the excess commission  to reduce the debt 
that still remained on the credit card account. Mr M says this shouldnt  happen  as his IVA 
had ended and closed in 2012,  with all his debts being deemed settled. 
When Mr Ms IVA came  to an end the creditors who had debts as part of that arrangement,  
including Capital One, had to accept  an amount  less than the amount Mr M had actually 
owed for his debts.  So Capital  One had received some of the amount Mr M had owed when 
he defaulted on paying his credit card. But there was still an amount  that wasnt paid by him 
of over £1,400.00.
When the IVA ended and Capital One had received a partial payment to settle the debt it 
meant that it could no longer take any proactive action against Mr M to recover the debt. But 
that didnt mean the money he had borrowed from Capital One when using his credit card 
had been fully cleared. The debt still existed on the account.
When businesses work out compensation in relation  to PPI on credit cards it is generally 
deemed that the PPI is the last thing paid off. This is to the benefit of the consumers as it 
means when working out the compensation the consumer gets compound interest  on any 
PPI that is part of the balance on the credit  card,  rather than 8% simple interest for being out 
of pocket. 
Here part of what remained as a debt on the credit card account  after the IVA ended  is likely 
to have been for the costs  of the PPI. The PPI was paid until 6 November 2006, just before 
Mr M entered the IVA on 13 November 2006. So Mr M wouldnt have paid all the PPI costs  
charged to the account, and so also wouldnt have paid the commission  part of the 
premiums. And if Capital One paid him the commission direct, Mr M would be getting  money  
for something he may never  have  paid.
I know Mr M has stated  Capital One illegally  mis-sold him the PPI. But Capital One didnt 
uphold his complaint the PPI was mis-sold and that has never  been  a finding for this 
particular policy. Capital  One is now only refunding a proportion of the commission that was 
included as part of the premiums, as it is required to do so following the Supreme Court  case 
and the new rules of the Financial Conduct  Authority.  
Overall I think  what Capital  One has done with the compensation for the excess  commission  
is fair. It has set this against  the credit  card debt, part of which  would have included  some,  if 
not all, of this commission.  And the PPI was directly related to the credit card account which  
had the debt. 
I understand Mr M feels having been  in an IVA which has now ended  and that IVA included 
the debt for this credit card, its not fair to say the debt still exists.  But legally that is the case,  
the only difference being that no action can be taken to recover  any amount of the remaining 
debt after the end of the IVA. Here Capital  One is using a debt it owes Mr M to set against  a 
debt which  is still on the credit card account.  So its fair to set one debt against the other  and 
reduce the credit card account  balance by the amount of the compensation.
Ref: DRN71513263my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I think what Capital  One (Europe) plc has done with the 
compensation due to Mr M is fair and Im not telling  it to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7151326