K820x#14complaint
D, a limited company,  complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited  increased  the prices  for 
merchant services processing when it believed it had a fixed price contract.
background
D had a long-standing agreement with WorldPay for processing its card payments. In early 
2018 a director  contacted  WorldPay  to say that it had received a better offer from another  
business. WorldPay agreed to reduce its prices with effect from 1 April 2018.  But these were 
increased again from 1 September  2018.  D says it considered that the prices were  fixed for 
12 months and it had not been told about the increase.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She had listened to the 
phone calls W had with WorldPay and there was no mention of a 12-month  fixed  price 
contract. She said that the terms and conditions stated that prices  could be increased with 
two months notice. WorldPay had provided  a copy of a letter it said it sent to D at the end of 
June 2018 setting out the prices that would apply from 1 September  2018. And telling D that 
it could exit the agreement within two months with no additional charge. This was said to 
have been an industry wide change that would not have  been known to the call handlers 
who dealt with D.
D did not agree. The director representing it said that he had agreed a fixed  price contract 
with WorldPay for 12 months.  This was verbally  confirmed over the phone.  It was not for any 
shorter or longer  period and the actions of WorldPay  were  completely misleading. He said 
that the terms and conditions  should have been sent to D and that it has suffered a financial 
loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked our investigator to clarify some points  with D about what  it said it had been told. And 
as a result, it asked  to listen to recordings of the phone conversations it had with Worldpay. 
Regrettably, this took some time to arrange  and I appreciate Ds patience. D has now 
listened to these. And the director says that a key one, in which  he agreed to the plan is not 
provided. Our investigator asked Worldpay to search for another call based on the numbers  
and dates he gave  and was not able to find any other calls.  
Ive listened to the available recordings of the calls between D and WorldPay about  the 
charges. I did hear in a call made  in February 2018 that there was reference to the overall 
contract being extended for 24 months and D was offered  a shopping voucher for £100 and 
accepted the offer.  To me that seemed to be the conclusion of any negotiations. 
Nevertheless, I dont doubt  that the director expected these lower prices  would  be sustained 
for a period  - otherwise he might have taken  the lower offer from a different business which I 
heard him say was at fixed prices.  Ive seen a copy of a letter WorldPay sent D dated 6 
March 2018 which confirms the new pricing  schedule from 1 April 2018  and there  is no 
mention of this being fixed for 12 months in that either. While I know  the directors  
recollection is that there was another call which covered the 12-month period thats not 
Ref: DRN73492932consistent with the other evidence Ive seen.  On balance  I dont find that this was a 
commitment that WorldPay made.
So, Im afraid that D was fairly bound by the standard terms and conditions  of the agreement 
with WorldPay. These  state  under Clauses 22 and 4.4 that fees and prices could be 
changed provided two months notice was given.  WorldPay  has provided  a copy  of a letter it 
sent to D about  an increase which it said was sent as part of a bulk mailing in June 2018.  
And in that letter it explained why charges were increasing. It told D that it could leave the 
agreement in the following two months  by given written notice. Or that if D didnt do this then 
it would  be deemed  to accept the change from 1 September 2018. I dont have a basis  to 
find that this most likely wasnt correctly sent by WorldPay  although I know D says it wasnt  
received.
I fully understand  that the director  will be disappointed with my conclusion.  He understood 
that D was getting  better prices only for those later to be increased. But for the reasons Ive 
given I dont find on balance that WorldPay made a mistake or misled D. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7349293