K822xComplaint
Mr D complains that Ald Automotive Limited  mishandled the sale of a vehicle.
Background 
In March 2017 Mr D leased vehicle from Ald for a period of 48 months.  He contacted  Ald in 
February as he wanted to sell the vehicle and he had found  a buyer. It sent him a settlement 
statement on 26 February along with a statement of intention. Mr D called Ald on 5 March 
and the prospective  buyer was with him. He said the buyer needed the van urgently and 
asked if the deal could be completed over the phone that day. He was told that Ald had a 
process and the buyer needed to be authorised  and this could  take up to two days.
Mr D called Ald two days later. The information had been received and Mr D was told he 
could go ahead with the sale. Mr D was told fill in the logbook and he handed over the 
vehicle, but on 12 March he was notified that the sale hadnt gone  though.  Apparently  there  
had been a discrepancy with the buyers  address. 
He says he was told to ask the buyer  for clarification which the buyer  refused to give. He 
also says it left him concerned and worried that he was liable for the vehicle even though  he 
no longer had it. He also says he was later told he shouldnt have signed  the logbook.  On 19 
March Ald obtained the necessary information  and the sale was finalised.
Ald offered  Mr D £100 compensation  and wrote off an outstanding sum of £208.14. He was 
unhappy with this and brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one 
of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She noted Mr D was worried about possible  legal  implications  should anything involving the 
van have happened  between him handing it over and it being  correctly transferred to the 
buyer. She explained  that this service  is only able to consider what  actually happened rather  
than what might have happened. She also accepted that Mr D was concerned  at possibly 
having to recover  the vehicle, which he says couldve put him in a potentially dangerous 
situation. However, Mr D didnt have to recover  the van and had not faced any legal 
implications.
She also noted the misinformation about  the logbook, but concluded that had not caused  
any lasting damage.  Our investigator  said the transfer was completed about a week and a 
half later than expected.  She concluded that Alds offer was fair and reasonable. Mr D didnt 
agree and said he was put in a precarious positon due to Alds  errors. It hadnt offered him 
support and he had been  left worried about having to get the vehicle back. He also said that 
the figure of £208.14 wasnt correct and hadnt  been included in the final settlement figure. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr D, but I dont believe I can uphold his complaint. I will explain 
why.
Ald has a process to deal with the sale of vehicles to a third party and it is entitled to do so. It 
owned the vehicle and it every right to ensure the sale was acceptable.  It seems  Mr D was in 
Ref: DRN79828362a hurry to sell the van and wanted  Ald to act more quickly that it was able to do. Thus  it gave 
authorisation for the sale to go through  before  the secondary checks  were  carried out. I dont 
think Ald can be said to have done anything wrong at this point as it seems to have speeded  
up its procedures to help Mr D.
The later checks threw up a discrepancy in the information provided by the buyer.  I believe it 
was a minor  matter involving a postcode.  However, I think that Ald passed too much 
responsibility to Mr D at that point  in asking him to resolve the problem. I can see that it 
presumed he was best placed to obtain the necessary clarification, but it seems  this wasnt 
the case.
However, it did obtain the information from the buyer  without Mr D having  to get involved. 
That said,  I can appreciate Mr Ds concerns and I agree that he is entitled to compensation. I 
consider £100  to be fair and reasonable. I can only base my decision on what happened and 
not what might have happened.
As for the £208.14  Ald says it wrote it off and I can see that Mr D was in arrears  and in a 
payment plan which may have led to some confusion as to what he owed, but in any event 
Mr D has not been  required to pay this sum and I dont consider I need  ask Ald to do more.
My final decision
Ald Automotive Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 and write off £208.14 to settle 
the complaint  and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
Ald Automotive Limited should pay £100  and write  off £208.14.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7982836