K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss G complain that Santander  UK Plc wouldnt let them port their existing 
mortgage balance  in full to another  property. As a result they felt they had to go elsewhere 
and paid an early  repayment charge (ERC).
background
Mr G and Miss G had a mortgage with Santander. Mr G was employed by a national firm, 
and Miss G was self-employed. They decided to relocate to another  part of the country, with 
the plan being that Mr G would take a transfer to one of his employers other locations, and 
Miss G would re-establish her business  in the new area.
They applied to Santander to port their mortgage  to the new property theyd found. 
Santander said the property was of unusual construction  and not one it was prepared  to lend 
against. Mr G and Miss G then found  another property, which was acceptable, so they 
renewed their application.
Santander looked at their circumstances.  It said it wanted further information about  their 
plans. In particular,  it wanted a firm job offer from Mr Gs new location. Mr G said his 
employer didnt provide information in the format  Santander wanted,  and it wouldnt accept  a 
letter from his manager confirming he would be able to transfer. The only acceptable 
evidence he could provide was an acceptance  of a job offer at the new location. 
Mr G got that, but he said it was difficult  and it exposed him to considerable risk because it 
meant he had to formally give up his old job and accept the new one. This meant he had to 
commit to moving jobs before knowing he had a mortgage in place which could  cause 
difficulties if the move  fell through. And, in fact, when Santander wouldnt lend what  they 
wanted he had to move ahead  of Miss G and live alone in unsuitable  temporary 
accommodation while they sorted  out a mortgage with another  lender.
Santander considered all the evidence  Mr G and Miss G provided. It didnt think the 
mortgage was affordable.  It recognised  Mr G had a new job. But it didnt think  there  was any 
guarantee Miss G would be able to re-start her business from scratch  with new clients  in a 
new location. However, it said that as they were  existing borrowers it would let them port 
even though they didnt  pass  the affordability  assessment  but that it wouldnt lend more  
than their existing loan to value,  which  meant the mortgage balance  would have to reduce.
Mr G and Miss G werent happy  with that. They agreed that the new property was cheaper,  
so porting the full amount  would increase the loan to value. But they wanted to retain the 
equity they would be taking out of the property.  They wanted to make some improvements  to 
the new property  to make it suitable for Miss Gs business, to keep some funds in case other  
work needed doing once  theyd moved  in, and pay off other debts.  They said any funds left 
over a year later would be paid back into the mortgage.
Santander wouldnt agree  to lend them the full amount. It offered around £117,000. So Mr G 
and Miss G went to another lender, which offered them £134,000  still less than their 
existing balance of £141,000. They had to pay an ERC to Santander.
Mr G and Miss G complained that Santander  wouldnt  let them  port their mortgage  in full. 
Our investigator thought Santanders offer was fair, but it hadnt needed to put him to the 
Ref: DRN79283482trouble of asking  for proof of a new job. So she said it should pay £300  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  that resulted.
Neither party accepted that. Mr G and Miss G didnt think  it fair they couldnt  port their 
existing balance in full and had to pay an ERC.  And Santander didnt think  it had done 
anything wrong   it was entitled to ask for evidence of employment, which it would  ask for in 
any application.
I reached a different view. Before I made my final decision, I invited the parties to consider 
what I said and provide any further evidence or arguments they want  me to take into 
account. I said:
There are strict rules, set out in the mortgage  regulations, for lenders to apply when  
considering applications for a mortgage  including the obligation to assess  
affordability.
However, one of the rules says that an affordability assessment isnt required for 
existing borrowers who want  to replace their existing mortgage  with a new one  
provided the new mortgage doesnt involve any changes to its terms which would be 
material to affordability.  In this case, there was no change material  to affordability  
Mr G and Miss G didnt  want  to borrow any more money, extend the term into 
retirement or change  the repayment  type. They simply wanted a like for like 
mortgage, albeit  one secured on a less expensive property in a different part of the 
country.
This rule says that the usual  obligation to carry out an affordability doesnt apply in 
situations like this. But what that means  is that Santander didnt have to carry out an 
affordability assessment.  It doesnt  mean that it must not do so.
Affordability isnt the only consideration involved in dealing with a mortgage  
application. Theres the importance  of making  sure the property is good  security  
and theres also the risk the lender accepts that the mortgage might not be paid back,  
or not paid back  without  action such as repossessing the property. Thats always  a 
risk in every case  for example, a borrowers circumstances might change through a 
job loss, and a previously affordable mortgage becomes unaffordable, and the 
property ends up being repossessed.
This risk has two elements  the risk that something might go wrong,  and the risk that 
if it does the lender wont be able to recover some or all of the money it lent. 
Loan to value is important to the second aspect.  The higher the amount of the 
mortgage, relative to the property value, the less the equity in the property. If property  
prices fall, or the mortgage balance increases, then the higher the loan to value the 
less cushion there is to absorb these  changes  and the higher the risk the lender  
wouldnt be able to recover  the loan if something did go wrong.
This is reflected in the terms  of Mr G and Miss Gs mortgage. The mortgage offer 
says at section 10:
Ref: DRN79283483What happens if you move  house?
If you move  house you may be able to transfer  this mortgage to another 
property as long as you meet the conditions  set out in the mortgage 
conditions booklet  under Transferring your loan to a new mortgage
And the relevant section of the mortgage conditions  booklet says,  at clause 19:
19.3 Where this condition applies:
a)We will accept  your application for the transfer  balance to be transferred 
to the new mortgage  unless we reasonably  think that:

(iii) the risk that we would suffer a loss if we realised  our security would be 
significantly greater under the new mortgage  than it is this mortgage
As Ive set out above, the risk that Santander would suffer  a loss if it realised its 
security is directly related  to the loan to value. An increase in the loan to value is an 
increase in that risk.
In this case, the existing loan to value that Santander agreed to offer on the new 
property was 43%. The amount Mr G and Miss G wanted to borrow  was 51%. While 
in absolute terms 51% isnt a high loan to value, it means the loan to value is in 
relative terms 20% higher than it was before.  Thats a significant increase in the risk.
I dont think, having looked at the underwriting notes,  that Santander refused to allow 
a port in full because of the affordability  assessment.  I think it allowed the port even 
though it appeared unaffordable, using the flexibility for existing borrowers the 
mortgage rules allow.  The reason  it wouldnt allow the port in full was because there 
was a significant increase in the loan to value  and the mortgage  terms and 
conditions said it wouldnt agree a port if that happened.
As a result, I think Santander  acted in line with the rules of mortgage regulation and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage  when it agreed to allow the port 
but of a lower  balance.  And, taking into account  the rules and the terms, I think that 
was a fair decision in this particular case.  The lower amount  it offered would still have 
allowed Mr G and Miss G to move,  to pay off their debts, and to fund the alterations 
to make the property suitable for Miss Gs business. The only thing it wouldnt have 
allowed is for them to keep extra funds aside for emergencies and pay them back 
into the mortgage if not needed a year later.  While I understand why Mr G and 
Miss G wanted those funds, I think Santanders offer  which allowed them  to move 
even though the loan looked unaffordable without  increasing the risk  was a fair 
compromise.
As I think  Santander made a fair offer, and one which would  have allowed 
Mr G and Miss G to move if theyd accepted it, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Santander to refund the ERC they paid to get a mortgage  elsewhere.  The ERC was 
properly chargeable if they ended the mortgage before the expiry of the fixed  rate, 
and Santander  gave them the chance to move without having to pay it  which they 
chose not to take.
Ref: DRN79283484Finally, our investigator said that an affordability assessment wasnt  necessary,  so 
Mr G shouldnt have been asked for proof  of his new job  and Santander should pay 
£300 to compensate him for the trouble of getting it. 
Ive thought carefully about this. But I dont  agree  it was unfair for Santander to ask 
for this information. Ive explained that an affordability assessment  isnt required  but 
it isnt banned  either.  The rules  allow  Santander to carry one out, but dont insist that 
it does. Given an affordability assessment isnt necessary, it might not be fair to 
refuse an application because of it, but that isnt what happened here.
As Ive also set out, in the end Santanders lending decision came  down to an 
assessment of risk. It was prepared to allow Mr G and Miss G to port, provided the 
risk Santander was already exposed to didnt  increase. Its clear the underwriter was 
concerned that Miss G wouldnt be able to establish her new business in the new 
area quickly enough to make  a significant  contribution to the mortgage. That was a 
reasonable concern and if right meant that the mortgage would be very dependent  on 
Mr Gs income.  
So I think it was fair and reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case, for 
Santander to satisfy itself that even though he was re-locating Mr G would still have  a 
sustainable income. And it wasnt unreasonable to ask for documentary  proof  of that. 
And it was reasonable to ask for more than a letter from Mr Gs manager  proof that 
hes entitled to ask for a transfer isnt the same  as proof that hes been granted  one. 
While it may have been inconvenient for Mr G to obtain it, it wasnt  unfair  for 
Santander to ask for it  and so I dont  think its fair to ask Santander  to pay 
compensation.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Santander accepted my provisional decision.  Mr G responded  to say that Santander used  
standard figures, rather than their actual expenditure   which it significantly overestimated as 
a result,  and which therefore affected the affordability calculation. And he said that the 
complaint wasnt about not being allowed to port  but about how they were  treated during 
the application. They were first told it would be no problem.  Had they realised it would have  
been they wouldnt have gone ahead with the house move. And it wasnt  reasonable to force 
him to commit to a job move before the application  had gone through.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  what  I said in 
my provisional decision and the responses to it. But having done so, I havent changed my 
mind. 
The regulator allows lenders to use notional  figures  for household expenditure (such as 
standardised ones  from the Office of National Statistics) rather  than actual figures. In some 
cases the notional  figures will be lower than the actual  ones,  in others  higher.  But as this is 
something explicitly allowed for in the mortgage  rules  and, as I explained, affordability 
wasnt the reason  for the refusal in any case  I dont  think I can find that this was unfair  in 
this case.
Ref: DRN79283485I dont think Santander  acted unreasonably, in either the process or the outcome. And while I 
can understand how frustrated and disappointed  Mr G and Miss G were,  I dont therefore 
think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7928348