K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S want TSB Bank plc to compensate them after their accounts  were fraudulently 
accessed by a third party.
 
background 
Mr and Mrs S say that a third party fraudulently  gained access to their accounts when TSB 
had IT issues  in May 2018. Over £5,000  was taken from four accounts. This was reimbursed 
a couple of weeks later. But their accounts were blocked again when there was another 
fraud attempt. The accounts were blocked for weeks and they couldnt  access their money, 
online or mobile banking.  This affected their ability to pay bills although  there havent been  
any resulting charges.  Mr S had to go into the branch a number of times and was on the 
phone for hours resolving  things. As a result he lost over two days of holiday and earnings.  
Mr S says this has caused  them stress and left him needing counselling for panic attacks 
and Mrs S on anti depressants. They want compensation.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
Mr S estimates he spent £50 in call costs  and went into the branch three times. He 
also spent a considerable time on the phone to TSB. Mr S mayve had to take time 
off work but dealing  with other  organisations can be inconvenient at times  and he 
cant recommend TSB should reimburse him for any loss of earnings  as he couldve  
gone into the branch when he wasnt working 
The matter has been very stressful for Mr and Mrs S and its caused a lot of 
inconvenience. Its had a significant impact  on them. So TSB should pay them  a total 
of £500 compensation for this including anything its already paid. And it should also 
pay £50 towards Mr S expenses. Thats a total of £550.
Mr S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he went from his 
work place  to the branch.  TSB didnt manage  the situation correctly causing excessive 
inconvenience. He had to take time off work  to deal with TSB and couldnt do some things in 
the branch. He was without his debit  card for about  12 weeks  which  had a significant  impact.
TSB has agreed to pay a total of £550  compensation  to Mr and Mrs S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the fraud issues with Mr and Mrs S accounts caused by TSBs IT issues 
resulted in inconvenience to them. They were without their debit card for some  weeks and 
their accounts were blocked for a time.  But their loss of money  was reimbursed  reasonably 
quickly. Mr S went into the branch on a number of occasions and was also engaged  on 
phone calls for some time. 
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a matter such as this and putting  things right. Although we wouldnt generally 
recommend theyre  compensated for this I think here its reasonable to do so as the 
Ref: DRN74325792inconvenience Mr and Mrs S were caused was reasonably significant and went  on for some 
weeks. 
Our investigator recommended TSB should  pay them a total of £550 for this including £50 
towards Mr S phone and travel expenses.  Mr S doesnt think this is enough.  But TSB has 
agreed with the investigators recommendation.
Mr S says he has suffered  panic  attacks since the fraud events and Mrs S is on 
antidepressants. But I havent seen any medical  evidence  of this or that any such health  
issues are caused solely  by what TSB has done.  
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think a total of £550  
compensation including £50 towards any phone and travel costs  is fair. And although I 
sympathise with the difficulties Mr and Mrs S have experienced  after the fraudulent  activity  
on their accounts, I dont think I can, on the available evidence, reasonably require TSB to 
pay any more than this.
Overall although  I recognise  Mr S strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right TSB Bank plc should, if it hasnt done  so already, 
pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £550  compensation. 
TSB must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs S 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If TSB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should  also give them  a 
tax deduction  certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7432579