K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the time it took Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) to do a partial 
transfer from his Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) to another provider. He was given 
incorrect information and he also feels SLs stockbroker service  (Stocktrade) was portrayed 
as an easy service to use but SL staff has poor knowledge of how it works. 
background
Mr D transferred his pension to SL in August 2017. He says within  a few months he realised 
the fees were  high relative to other providers and he was unable  to invest into a particular 
fund that he was interested in. So he decided to transfer £500,000 of his pension to a 
different provider for more flexibility.
Mr D says he started this process  with SL in November 2017,  however it took until 
20 February 2018 for his money  to reach  the new SIPP. He says SL blocked the process 
and delayed the transfer unnecessarily.  Mr D says he lost the opportunity to invest his funds 
during this delay.  
Mr D says in December  2017 he asked SL about trading individual shares and investment 
trusts but he was passed around  departments and eventually he felt their Stocktrade  service 
was too expensive and cumbersome for his circumstances, so he didnt use it.
SL offered  Mr D £150 for the overall service he experienced. Mr D wasnt happy with that 
and referred  his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator found the transfer process only really started  on 15 January 2018  when SL 
received the transfer request from the new provider. However,  he thought there  was a delay 
from 1 February 2018 until 19 February 2018  when  SL granted  the necessary concession to 
allow a partial transfer but this wasnt passed on to the relevant department. The investigator 
recommended increasing the compensation payment to £300 for the service  Mr D 
experienced. He also told Mr D he could ask SL to compensate Mr D for any potential 
investment loss he suffered by not being  able to invest earlier with his new provider during 
this delay in February.
SL agreed to the compensation payment of £300.  Mr D didnt agree with the assessment. He 
says he instigated the transfer in November 2017.  He believes the delays were  
two to three  months. He also thinks hes been  prevented from investing his funds  whilst  he 
was still with SL as he had lost confidence in their service.
As no agreement could be reached  Mr Ds complaint  was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I previously issued a provisional  decision upholding this complaint. I asked both parties  to 
provide any further  comments they wanted me to consider.
SL accepted the decision and had no further comments.
Mr D provided  further comments.  In summary he said:
Hes unhappy that SL couldnt originally provide their online messages, but later
Ref: DRN70056132provided them.
The value  of compensation feels derisory for the amount and time of money involved
and SL surely  would charge their clients more for an hour of their time.
SL charges a decent fee for clients that include the provision of personal  relationship
managers who he expected to add significant  value to his investing decisions.       
However, knowledge around  their core business  was low which led to a lot of wasted 
time.
The transfer took many weeks. By contrast, a transfer with another provider took a 
few days.
He feels its ludicrous  that financial organisations can get away with such poor
     services and the ombudsman doesnt have  the teeth to deal with it.
I agree  with Mr D that it was disappointing  SL couldnt provide the online messages earlier. 
However, in the end we did receive  the messages and they didnt contradict anything SL had 
told us before, so I dont  think  Mr D has been disadvantaged by this.
There is no doubt that Mr Ds transfer  took longer than it should have and that the customer  
service provided by SL could have been  better. However, Im satisfied the compensation I 
recommended is fair in the circumstances. 
Were not here to punish businesses, but to put customers as much  as possible back in the 
position they would have  been in if no errors had happened.  If Mr Ds transfer had been 
quicker he could  have invested  earlier with his new provider. The comparisons 
I recommended account for this. I understand Mr D thinks he wasted a lot of time with SL. 
However, based on the evidence Ive seen I cant see that the unnecessary time he spent 
talking to SL warrants higher compensation than I recommended.
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including  Mr Ds further comments.  Having 
done so Im satisfied  with the outcome reached  in my original decision. 
Ill repeat  my findings below.
During the investigation SL told us they couldnt  retrieve some  of the early communications 
with Mr D in November/December 2017  as they had been  over their online portal and they 
couldnt access these  messages.  Ive asked them to do another search based on the date 
logs Mr D provided. SL have now sent me copies of the earlier communications as well. Ive 
also received some  information from the new provider.
Having reviewed all the information again I can see that Mr D contacted  SL at the end of  
November to ask about a particular investment. SL replied that they were unable  to offer this 
at the moment but were  working to agree a process with their stockbroker Stocktrade. SL 
explained that he needed financial advice if he wanted to open a Stocktrade account and to 
call them if he wanted to open this.
On 6 December  Mr D sent a short message telling SL he had instigated transfers to two 
different providers. He received a message back the same day telling him that the transfer  
team would await instructions from the new providers and would then tell him about  SLs 
transfer requirements.
Ref: DRN70056133On 15 December Mr D asked whether he needed  a discharge form. He was told the same  
day that SL doesnt require discharge forms. The consultant also asked Mr D for a good time 
to speak, so he could understand Mr Ds long-term  objectives.
Mr D agreed to speak to SL on 19 December, but on the day the consultant couldnt reach 
him and left him a voicemail  message.  I cant see that Mr D replied to this.
On 15 January SL received a formal transfer request from Mr Ds new provider for over 
£500,000. Based on what Ive seen I dont think SL needed to do anything  before  this date 
with regards to the transfer. So I cant agree with Mr D that the delays started  in November 
or December  2017.
Mr D had three sub accounts in his SIPP  with values of 1) £20,113.79, 2) £22,527.90 and 
3) £1,644,645.81. As stated in the SIPPs terms and conditions SL would generally only 
transfer a full sub account so they asked  the new provider to clarify how Mr D wanted to 
proceed. I think this was reasonable  in the circumstances.
When they didnt  receive  a reply they contacted Mr D directly a week later on 22 January 
which I think was within a reasonable  timeframe. In the email SL said none  of Mr Ds sub 
accounts held more than £500,000 which of course was incorrect  as sub account 3 held 
more than £1.6 million. Mr D called SL the same  day to see what was going on. He was 
informed that partial transfers could only be done  with a concession. The consultant offered 
to request the concession for Mr D the same day. However, he didnt remove  Mr Ds 
financial adviser from the plan which led to further  queries from the concession  team.  Once 
these were clarified the concession took four days to be processed.  SL have conceded  that 
without the avoidable queries the concession could have been  granted  by 26 January, 
instead of 1 February.
SL have said that from this day a reasonable timeframe for processing  the transfer would be 
ten working days which I agree with. Although I think within this timeframe the money should 
have arrived with the new provider. A later transfer for Mr D took a similar time. So without 
unnecessary delays from SLs side, the money should have been in the new SIPP  by
9 February (26 January + 10 working days).
Unfortunately, the concession wasnt  passed  on to the correct  team when it was granted. 
When Mr D contacted the new provider for an update he was told SL was blocking the 
transfer. This was due to the relevant team not being informed about the concession. When 
Mr D called SL the same  day he was incorrectly told he never needed a concession which 
understandably frustrated Mr D. The call handler then discovered that the concession  had 
been granted nearly three weeks earlier. He prioritised the case immediately and the transfer 
payment was made by CHAPS the same day to make up for SLs delays. The payment was 
received by the new provider on 20 February.
Looking at the above, Im satisfied SL caused  a delay  from 9 February-when the transfer 
should have happened- until 19 February when it did happen.
 
Our service aims to put customers  as far as possible  in the position  they would have been in 
if a particular error had not occurred. Ive asked  the new provider to show me what 
investments Mr D made once his money  arrived with them. 
Ref: DRN70056134Based on the information given to me Mr D invested £300,000 as follows  (once charges 
were deducted). All trades were  done  online by Mr D. The remaining £200,000 stayed in 
cash.
The new provider confirmed that Mr D instructed  the first two trades on 26 February, so six 
days after the monies were received. Of course  I cant know  for certain what Mr D would 
have done if the money  had been  in his new SIPP earlier. However, he invested  fairly 
quickly afterwards, so I think  its reasonable to assume that Mr D would have  invested  earlier  
if he had had the opportunity to do so.
Assuming the same time it took Mr D to invest,  I think its likely he would have instructed the 
first two deals on 15 February (six calendar days after the money  should  have arrived).  The 
first dealing point would have been the following Monday, 18 February.  So I think  SL should 
compensate Mr D for any potential investment returns he would have had between  
18 February and 27 February  in the relevant first two funds.
I dont think it would  be fair to recommend the same for Mr Ds other investments. They 
werent made at his earliest opportunity. For some reason Mr D decided  to wait a few more  
days and even longer for his last investment. That was Mr Ds decision and I dont think its 
fair to hold SL responsible for the lost opportunity to invest  earlier for these transactions.
I also dont think SL can be held responsible for Mr D keeping his pension mainly in cash 
whilst he held his SIPP with them. Mr D decided not to use the Stocktrade account as he 
thought it was inflexible and too expensive. And I appreciate  that in Mr Ds opinion  SLs SIPP  
is not offering  him what he needs  and for this reason  he decided  to transfer his money 
elsewhere. But this doesnt mean Mr D couldnt have invested his money  whilst he was with 
SL. 
From what  Ive seen Mr D made  the first enquiries  about Stocktrade in early February 2018. 
By this time he had already  decided to transfer  part of his SIPP elsewhere. Before this time 
I cant see any reason why Mr D was forced to keep large parts  of his funds in cash. Its 
worth noting  that using  Stocktrade is only necessary for certain investment choices. A wide 
range of investments into insured pension funds or mutual funds could have been made 
online or over the phone with SL directly. I also cant see that Mr Ds funds were ring-fenced 
in any way before the transfer was requested.  So I think if Mr D had wanted  to invest his 
funds (temporarily) somewhere  whilst he had his SIPP with SL, he could have done so. 
Mr D transferred a large amount to SL and he says he was assured  he would be given an 
executive service. So I understand that he was disappointed with the standard  of service he 
received. He had to call SL to find out what was happening with his transfer and was then 
given incorrect information.  I also listened  to some  of the calls Mr D had with SL when trying 
to open his Stocktrade account (an execution-only stockbroker) and he kept being put on 
hold and transferred  to other departments.  From what Ive heard I agree that the process 
could have been smoother and I appreciate that Mr D thought  this was cumbersome.
I appreciate Mr D thinks any compensation payment  should  take into account that he was 
paying high account fees. However, when awarding compensation for inconvenience or 
upset caused,  this service  isnt looking  to punish businesses. Ill award compensation in line 
with the impact I think SLs error has had on Mr D. And whilst he had a few conversations  
about the Stocktrade account that could have been  more straight  forward,  they all happened 
Ref: DRN70056135on the same  day. Mr D was given  information  about  Stocktrades charges -something Mr D 
had specifically asked  for- and information about how dealings would work. He was told that 
his account should be open  within a few days.  I understand  Mr D didnt think  the service  
matched his needs and he decided to not go ahead with this service.  
When Mr D called SL to query what was happening to his transfer  and was initially given 
incorrect information this was clarified  quickly on the same day as well. So looking at the 
inconvenience SL caused  Mr D, overall  I think the compensation  of £300 recommended by 
the investigator- and which SL subsequently accepted-  is fair in the circumstances. 
putting things right
SL should:
work out what Mr Ds investments with Fidelity China Special Situations PLC and 
Fidelity Emerging Markets W Acc would be valued  at now (date of my final decision)  
if he had placed  his first two deals on 18 February 2018 instead of 27 February 2018. 
If Mr D has lost out by SLs delay, they should pay the difference  directly into Mr Ds 
SIPP funds. If there  is no loss or Mr D has effectively benefitted from the delay, no 
payment for financial loss needs to be paid.
whether there is any financial  loss or not, SL should pay Mr D £300 for the 
inconvenience caused by their errors and customer service
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Standard  Life Assurance Limited  to pay Mr D the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7005613