K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (M-B)  unfairly  charged 
him for a damaged  windscreen at the end of his Hire Purchase  (HP) Agreement. He would 
like this charge waived.
background.
Mr A says he took out a HP agreement with M-B in September 2015. Before the agreement 
was due to end on 17 September 2018  he had the car checked by a local M-B garage,  He 
says he asked about the chip stone  on the windscreen but says he was told it was within  
tolerance. So he didnt expect M-B to charge him for it. He feels  any damage  to the 
windscreen might have occurred after he returned  the car.
He says he returned the car in excellent condition having driven  fewer  miles than he could 
have done so.
M-B said that both the photos Mr A provided and those from its own inspection  supported  
the charge for the windscreen. It said although the chip was small it was within the drivers  
sight line. And it was therefore  entitled  to charge for it as it was outside vehicle standards 
guidelines. To settle the disagreement it did offer to reduce the charge  by 20% from £354.78  
to £283.82. Mr A didnt  accept this offer.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  He found that under British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA) Guidelines M-B were entailed to charge for damage to the 
windscreen. And he thought the cost charged  was fair.
Mr A didnt accept this view. He reiterated that the car was fully inspected  by an M-B garage.  
It showed the chip stone as an amber not red issue. He said he queried this at the time 
and said he was clearly  told that the car could  be returned with no additional cost.  He sent in 
the report he obtained at the time.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He still felt under the 
terms of the agreement that Mr A signed,  and given the BVRLA guidance,  that M-B were 
entitled to charge for the windscreen. He noted  that in the report Mr A provided the damage 
was described as a chip  which fell outside of BVRLA guidelines for fair wear  and tear.
He noted Mr As comments that a M-B garage had told him in July that there would be no 
cost to pay. But he said that was a different entity  to M-B who provided the finance 
agreement.
Mr A didnt accept this second view. He said the process was that M-B asks consumers to 
take the car to an M-B garage for inspection before it is returned. He understood that M-B 
garages had authority  to advice on any necessary work before the car was returned. He 
says a report is then done to allow consumers  to either get any work  done themselves or let 
M-B do the work. He says had he known the windscreen needed replacing he could have 
done this under his insurance  at no cost to himself.  He says his car was given a clean bill of 
health.
Ref: DRN79865702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that M-B charged Mr A for damage the windscreen when he returned his 
car at the end of his HP agreement.
I note Mr A has said the car was in excellent  condition and he had driven less miles than he 
could have done. Unfortunately the mileage  driven is a separate  issue and not one Mr A 
could reasonably offset against charges for damage.
I have looked  at the HP Agreement Mr a signed. This does allow M-B to charge for damage 
outside of fair wear  and tear. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was a chip stone to the windscreen.  That is 
noted on the report from the M-B garage that Mr A gave us. Mr A says the M-B garage told 
him it wasnt an issue and he wouldnt be charged for that. The damage  is noted as amber 
on the report. Accompanying notes  state  that amber  means  there will need to be a 
reinvestigation before the next scheduled  service  but its not absolutely  essential to repair 
immediately. That does  indicate to me there  is an issue that might need to be addressed.
I cant be sure what Mr A was told when he had his car inspected. And I appreciate  he cant 
really evidence a verbal  conversation.  It might  have been useful if he had thought to get the 
person who inspected his car to note on the report that they didnt feel the damage was 
chargeable. 
However I have asked M-B about  its process for cars being returned. It has explained  that it 
can arrange a pre-inspection at an authorised garage. But M-B needs to organise this and it 
needs to be two weeks before the collection date.
M-B said it didnt arrange a pre-inspection  for Mr A.  It said its first contact with Mr A about 
collecting the car was on 11 September 2018 where collection was arranged  for 17 
September 2018. Finally M-B said this wouldnt  have given the company time to arrange for 
a pre-inspection  prior to the contract ending.
I think Mr A might  have misunderstood  what he needed to do in terms of an inspection  
before he returned  the car. I am also mindful he had the car inspected  in July 2018 two 
months before he returned it. I dont think its reasonable to expect M-B to be bound by an 
inspection two months before the car was returned as other damage could have occurred 
during that time. 
Given the report Mr A got stated there  was a chip stone to the windscreen. And the BVRLA  
Guidelines state  chips within  the drivers sightline are not acceptable  and I agree with our 
investigator that the photos we have  show the damage is in the middle of the windscreen so 
would be within the drivers sightline. I think that on that basis  M-B were entitled  to charge for 
the windscreen. So on that basis I dont  think I can reasonably ask M-B to waive this charge 
as Mr A would like.
I note Mr A has said he thinks  any chargeable damage might  have occurred after he 
returned the car. But I am also mindful Mr A had the car inspected on 14 July 2018 but didnt  
Ref: DRN79865703return his car until 17 September 2018 so its also possible  that further damage occurred in 
that time.
But from the evidence  I have seen I am persuaded that the damage to the windscreen  was 
damage that M-B was entitled to charge for.
In its final response letter  M-B offered to reduce the charge by 20%. I have asked M-B if this 
offer is still available and it has confirmed that it is. I think  that is a reasonable resolution for 
M-B to make. I leave it to Mr A to accept it or not.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has made a fair offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7986570