K820x#14complaint
Mr P says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  policy  (PPI).
background
Mr P took out a credit card in January  2003 with MBNA. He didnt indicate that he wanted  
PPI when he filled in the credit  card application form. MBNA says PPI was added  to the card 
account during  a phone call with Mr P around  three  months later. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that MBNA hadnt provided any evidence 
of the phone call when it said Mr P had agreed to buy the PPI. Our adjudicator felt she 
hadnt seen enough information to be able to say that Mr P had ever actively  confirmed that 
he did want to have  PPI. In addition, she thought Mr P probably wouldnt have taken out PPI 
if MBNA  had made the policys cost and benefits  clear to him at the time of the sale.  
MBNA disagreed. It relies on its records to show that PPI was sold to Mr P over the phone, 
and on a script which it says its representative  wouldve used for that sales  call. And MBNA 
says Mr P should be asked to prove  what other means he had to rely on if he wasnt  able to 
work. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Theres  no recording of the phone call available now, after so long. But I think  its likely  
MBNA made  Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this 
because it looks as if the phone sales process  and script that MBNA  staff followed at the 
time wouldve made Mr P aware it was up to him to decide  if he wanted to have PPI. They  
also required  the MBNA representative  to get the customers consent before adding the PPI. 
And Ive not seen  or been  told anything that makes  me think  MBNA departed from its usual  
process on this occasion.
But, looking  at the phone  script,  even  if MBNAs  representative followed it closely,  I dont 
think the policys true cost and benefits were  clearly drawn to Mr Ps attention. 
The cost of the policy was 68p per £100  of the outstanding balance on the credit  card.  A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 3% of the outstanding monthly balance on the 
credit card. This wouldve  been  paid for up to 12 months per claim for unemployment, or until 
the outstanding balance  was cleared  or Mr P returned to work  for a disability claim. 
When selling  the policy MBNA needed  to make sure it gave Mr P enough clear information  
about the cost and benefits of the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. 
As Ive said,  MBNA has sent us a sales  script  to show whats likely to have been said on the 
phone. The cost just 68p per £100 of your outstanding balance is mentioned. But, 
I cant see that the benefit figure  is mentioned at all. 
The policy came with a limited benefit - it wouldve only paid 3% of what  he owed on the 
card. 
Ref: DRN72799202I cant see anywhere on the script where  it explains the possibility of interest being charged  
on the PPI premiums, or that premiums  would still need to be paid during a claim. As far as 
I can see, none of this information is clearly set out in any paperwork I think  Mr P wouldve 
seen before he signed up to have PPI. So I dont think Mr P wouldve known these  things. 
I think this wouldve made it difficult for Mr P to understand  what the benefit and true cost of 
the policy were when he agreed to take it out.
Overall, I dont  think the information  MBNA  gave Mr P on the cost and benefit of the policy 
was good enough. 
So Ive thought carefully about how likely it is that having clearer  information about the cost 
and benefit of the policy mightve put Mr P off taking out the policy.
Mr P has told us that when he took out PPI he had under 3 months worth of means he could 
rely on if he wasnt working and no sick pay entitlement. He mentioned a figure of £500 in 
savings  but I dont know  if he wouldve always had savings to rely on if he wasnt  working. 
Weve asked Mr Ps representative to check and confirm the information Mr P has provided  
about his sick pay and savings, and to send us more information about some  private  income 
protection that he mentioned to MBNA having had. As things stand, no further information 
has been provided  Mr Ps representative says it hasnt been able to make contact with 
Mr P.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I dont think having clearer  information about the 
policy cost and benefits wouldve put Mr P off taking it out because it appears to me that he 
couldve benefitted from having it. I havent  seen  enough to suggest  that his other  means 
were sufficient to make  the policy not worthwhile for him. 
Mr P doesnt  appear to have had significant  other  means to make  his credit card repayments 
for very long if he couldnt work. So I think that a policy that couldve paid the minimum 
monthly repayments on his credit  card for up to 12 months if Mr P lost his job unexpectedly - 
and for as long as Mr P was off work  in the event of accident or sickness - couldve been of 
benefit to him. 
And, even  if he hadnt fully appreciated how much the policy would actually cost him on a 
month to month basis, Mr P chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he 
seems to have wanted it. And it appears  the policy was affordable for him.
From what  Ive been told, Mr P wasnt affected  by any of the main  conditions that mightve  
limited the policys benefit  to him. So, even if these  werent clearly  mentioned,  I dont think 
that knowing more  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference  to 
Mr Ps decision to take it out.  
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him and what I currently know  about  his 
sick pay and other  means, I think it unlikely  Mr P wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Ref: DRN72799203MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Both parties  told me that they didnt want to comment further and Mr P indicated  that he 
accepted my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and taking into account what was said in response to my provisional  
decision, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr P.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN7279920