K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that the bank charges on her overdraft with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds 
Bank) are too high.  
background
Mrs J has a bank account with Lloyds Bank which has an overdraft facility. She also has 
some other borrowing with Lloyds Bank. 
In November 2017, Lloyds Bank changed its charging structure for overdrafts, and informed 
Mrs J. The new fee structure meant  Mrs J would be charged a daily fee of £0.01 for every £7 
borrowed on her overdraft. 
Mrs J asked Lloyds Bank  to increase her overdraft several  times  over a period of a couple of 
years, and her overdraft  borrowing  limit peaked at £3,500.
Mrs J got into financial  difficulty.  Lloyds Bank said it was first told about  this by Mrs J in 
October 2018. Mrs J said she informed Lloyds Bank six months earlier,  but Lloyds Bank said 
it didnt have any record of this. 
Lloyds Bank  froze the overdraft charges on Mrs Js account between  October  and December 
2018, after she advised she was in financial difficulty. And it previously refunded £100 of 
charges in July 2018. 
Mrs J complained when  the charges were reinstated  in December 2018  she told Lloyds 
Bank that she was still in financial difficulty.  She also said that she was expecting to receive  
the proceeds of a property sale within a few months.
Lloyds Bank  said it began charging fees again in December 2018 because  Mrs J had not 
returned an income and expenditure form itd asked her to complete. It said as Mrs J was 
due to receive a large sum of money  from a property sale;  it would continue to freeze  the 
charges. And said itd arranged a repayment  plan and a temporarily reducing overdraft. 
Mrs J remained  unhappy with the overdraft charges and brought  her complaint to this 
service. An investigator here looked into the complaint  and said that he didnt think Lloyds 
Bank had done  anything  wrong. Mrs J didnt agree and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked that Lloyds  Bank has applied its charges to Mrs Js account in line with its 
terms and conditions. And Ive seen  evidence that it informed her when its charges  changed.  
So I agree with the investigator that, because of a court  ruling, those charges cant be 
challenged on the grounds that they are disproportionate  or unfair.  I appreciate that Mrs J 
feels strongly that the overdraft fees Lloyds  Bank  applied to her account were  too high, but 
I cant, in effect,  limit what a bank chooses  to charge for its services.  
Ref: DRN76755082However, I can consider  whether Lloyds acted  appropriately after becoming  aware  that 
Mrs J was experiencing financial difficulties. 
In June 2018 Mrs J got in touch with Lloyds Bank and asked to take out a loan to clear  her 
overdraft debt. She said she couldnt afford the daily charges on the overdraft and 
complained they were  too high. Lloyds  Bank  turned down Mrs Js loan application based on 
its assessment of her creditworthiness and affordability at that time.  And it refunded £100 in 
overdraft charges. Based on the system notes Lloyds Bank has provided,  Ive seen no 
evidence that Mrs J told the bank that she was experiencing  financial difficulties  at that time. 
Lloyds Bank  said the first time Mrs J told it she was in financial difficulty  was in October  
2018. Mrs J said she told Lloyds Bank about  her financial difficulties around six months  
earlier. This would  be around April 2018. 
Mrs J has been unable  to provide anything  more specific about when she told Lloyds Bank  
she was in financial difficulties and Ive seen no other evidence of this in the records  
provided by the bank.  Based on what both parties have told me, I think  its most likely that 
Mrs J recalls the conversations  she had with the bank in June 2018 about the cost of her 
overdraft, which was around four months  before  Lloyds Bank says Mrs J got in touch about 
her financial  difficulties in October 2018.  However  Ive not seen enough evidence  to be 
satisfied that Mrs J made it clear to Lloyds Bank that she was experiencing financial difficulty  
prior to this. So Ive not found that Lloyds Bank did anything wrong here.  
I think it may have been possible for Lloyds Bank to have noticed Mrs J might be in financial 
difficulty before it was told. And I say this based  on the activity on Mrs Js account in the six 
months prior to her letting the bank know she was in financial difficulty in October  2018.  
However overall, once  Lloyds Bank  was made aware, Im satisfied  that it did enough,  and Ill 
explain why.  
When Mrs J told Lloyds Bank she was in financial difficulty in October 2018, it froze the 
charges and interest on her account temporarily.  Id expect the bank to treat Mrs J positively 
and sympathetically  once it became aware that she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
And I think it did this adequately in the circumstances. I say this as Lloyds Bank asked Mrs J 
for details  of her income and expenditure in order to work out a potential repayment  plan.  
And it froze the interest and charges on her account,  to give her some breathing space and 
time to respond.
Lloyds Bank  said it started charging fees on Mrs Js account again in December 2018 as 
Mrs J hadnt returned  the income  and expenditure form itd asked for. I dont think this was 
unreasonable, as the bank would have needed this information to assess what help it could 
offer Mrs J with her financial situation. After Mrs J got in touch and provided some  more 
information, Lloyds  Bank  agreed to freeze the interest and charges  on her account  again, 
and I think this was fair. 
Lloyds Bank  has said that after Mrs J received a large credit into her account which cleared 
her overdraft, it removed her overdraft facility  in March 2019.  And I dont think  this was 
unreasonable as the account had returned to a credit balance. 
Ive established  that I dont  think Lloyds  Bank  has done anything wrong in terms of its 
overdraft charges and the action it took around  Mrs Js financial difficulties. However, this 
service has an inquisitorial remit, and Im satisfied  that this allows me to also consider the 
question of whether  or not the borrowing Mrs J had with Lloyds Bank, in the form of the 
Ref: DRN76755083overdraft and loans,  was affordable to her. Ive put this to Lloyds Bank for its comments, and 
its decided to treat that matter a separate  complaint  case. So I wont  comment on it any 
further here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And I make 
no award against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7675508