K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold his a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr B took out in January 2002.  
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mr B disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL have  said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been  able to provide a 
recording of the phone  call or any notes taken  at the time  this isnt surprising  considering 
the sale took place many years ago. So I dont know for sure how PPI was presented to     
Mr B or what was said.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr B has told us. But I also have to consider that 
because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over time. Ive also taken  into 
account what we know about how FICL sold these policies around this time and everything 
weve seen in the past. 
I think, on balance,  its likely FICL would have made it clear  that the PPI was optional and   
Mr B would have been asked  for his consent  to the cover during the call. Ive not seen 
enough to conclude otherwise.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI policy  to Mr B. So it didnt have to take steps to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for him. But it had to give Mr B enough information about  the policy to 
decide if he wanted it or not.
Its likely  the information  FICL gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been  
 including  the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I have in front of me it 
looks like it could still have been  useful to him. And I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it. 
Ref: DRN73687452Mr B hasnt provided information about  his sick pay at the time of sale. So, with what  I do 
know of his circumstances at the time,  I think on balance Mr B couldve found this policy 
useful should  he have become unable to work or unemployed. The PPI policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding monthly  balance for up to 12 months  for unemployment, 
accident or sickness. Theres nothing to show  me Mr B couldnt afford the policy.  And if he 
no longer wanted  it he couldve  cancelled it at any time.
I also dont think Mr B would have been affected by any of the main things that mightve 
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim  such  as any medical  condition  of 
which he was already aware.
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped Mr B from buying  the PPI. Ive taken into 
account all Mr Bs comments  but these points  dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 Septmeber  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7368745