K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr M paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Halifax havent been able to give us the documents from Mr Ms sale, which I think  is 
understandable given  just how long ago it was, and given  that the policy has long since  been 
cancelled. Mr M doesnt remember where  the sale was or being given the option to take PPI, 
though I also think thats understandable since it was so long ago, and since  buying 
insurance isnt often memorable.
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely  to have happened. It would  have been  a very 
serious failing  for Halifax to have added the PPI without Mr Ms permission, or to have 
misrepresented it as being compulsory, and Ive got no evidence to show  thats what it did. 
Nor have  I seen any wider  problems  with Halifaxs sales process from the time. So on the 
balance of probabilities, I think its more likely that Mr M wouldve been aware he had a 
choice about buying PPI, and chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr M doesnt 
seem to have been affected by any of the policys key exclusions or limitations. And he didnt 
have any other significant  protection in case he lost his job, which left him at risk. Mr M said 
he had some very good sick pay, though the amount hes given us is unusual  and I havent  
seen any evidence to support it. The PPI paid out in addition  to his sick pay, and its worth 
bearing in mind that Mr Ms mortgage  was a very substantial, long-term commitment, and it 
was his sole responsibility. And if Mr M fell behind on his payments, he risked losing his 
home. Overall, I think the PPI couldve been useful for Mr M in protecting  his home  and 
giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN72999142Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr M about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I said above, it doesnt  look like Mr M was affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and it couldve been useful in protecting  his home in case  he fell on 
difficult times. And it doesnt  look like the PPI was unaffordable. Overall, I dont think  that 
better information was likely to have put Mr M off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7299914