K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  imposed excess  charges when she returned 
her hire purchase car.
background
Miss Ms finance agreement came  to an end and the car was inspected by an agent 
appointed by PSA. He reported  a number of damaged items and a missing  spare  key as well 
as an unstamped log book for the latest  service. Miss E had also exceeded the agreed 
mileage. The total sum due was £662.35,  but after Miss E had complained  PSA agreed to 
remove a charge for damage to the tailgate  of £86.35, as the photographic evidence wasnt  
clear. It also offered to reduce the remaining sum by 25% leaving £448.25 payable.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He noted the car had been inspected  using 
the British Vehicle Retail and Leasing Associations  (BVRLA) Guidelines. He reviewed the 
inspectors report and the photographic evidence and concluded  that the charges were fair. 
He referred to the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement  which  entitled PSA 
to make the charges.
He also noted  that miss M had agreed  to keep the vehicle  in good condition.  Clause  15 said 
she had to maintain and service the vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations. It is your responsibility  to ensure that the repairer stamps the vehicles 
service book each time the vehicle is serviced  (the service  book  must  be returned to us on 
the day of collection  if the vehicle is recovered  by us for any reason).
The service  book hadnt been  stamped by the dealer servicing  it so Miss M was responsible  
for that omission. He also said that Miss M had signed for two keys when she acquired the 
vehicle and only one was returned.
Miss M had raised some issues concerning the cars brakes  during her hire period and that it 
had been delivered with the wrong number plates. He noted  she hadnt raised these matters 
at the time and he didnt think PSSA had done anything wrong.
Miss M didnt agree and said she had had the car serviced by the dealer some two weeks  
before collection  and it had said the marks etc. would be put down to wear and tear. She 
accepted she would  have to pay for the key, but disputed the other damage. She said she 
found it suspicious the inspector didnt want her there when  he inspected the car. He didnt 
explain his findings  face to face.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M entered into an agreement with PSA that required her to pay for damages that fell 
outside BVRLA guidelines. The car was inspected by an independent inspector, albeit one 
appointed by PSA and he found  a number of damaged items. These are clear in the 
photographs he took. The investigator  has explained  these in some detail which I wont 
repeat here.
Ref: DRN74637242I note Miss M signed the report which sets out the damage and the associated  costs and I 
am unsure why she now disagrees with it. It may be that she didnt read the document.  
However, I have no reason to doubt its accuracy.  
As for the service book,  it wasnt stamped as was required  and I have  seen nothing  to show  
that the car was serviced as claimed. However,  the requirement of the agreement was that 
Miss M return  the car with a stamped service  book and this she failed to do.
I note she says she returned a previous car in a much worse  state  and wasnt charged for it. 
PSA has pointed out that she didnt return the car, but traded  it in for another one and the 
price agreed  would have  been between her and the dealer. The fact she has said the 
previous car was in a poor state doesnt help her argument that the latest one was 
acceptable.
I note she has raised  some issues about  the car which she says arose when she first hired it 
and shortly afterwards. She didnt  raise these at the time and I dont consider they have any 
bearing on the body of her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7463724