K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Bank of Scotland plcs refusal  to agree to the settlement he would like 
it to make.
background
In May 2013  Mr S was having  some  building work done at his house. His builder had a trade  
account with a kitchen retailer who I will call B. That trade account was used  to purchase 
the kitchen. As a result, the invoice for the kitchen  from B was in the name of Mr Ss builder 
not Mr S. That said, Mr S used his personal credit  card supplied by BoS to pay the invoice.
The kitchen was guaranteed for ten years. But a mere four years  down the line, parts of the 
kitchen began to deteriorate. Initially Mr S complained to B but got nowhere. So instead, Mr 
S complained to BoS relying  on rights he suggested  he had under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 75). Mr S believed he had these rights because he had 
used his credit card to partly pay for the kitchen.
BoS agreed to refund  the cost of the kitchen, pay for its removal and pay for the installation 
of a new kitchen.  Its records show it made  payments to Mr S of £11,231.71  in total.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, for three reasons. The payments from BoS did not cover the 
total cost of the original installation. Further, BoS would not agree to pay to replace Mr Ss 
kitchen worktops. Moreover,  Mr S was unhappy  with BoSs complaint handling.
Mr S and BoS came to no agreement about  these  outstanding points so Mr S came  to our 
service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint. He did not recommend upholding it. The reason 
for this was because our investigator concluded  that it was Mr Ss builder  not Mr S who had 
a contractual relationship with B. This in turn meant  that Mr S was not fairly  and reasonably  
able to ask BoS to put things right relying  on Section 75. Our investigator explained that in 
order to benefit  from Section  75 there  would need  to be a very particular arrangement in 
place between Mr S, B and BoS. This relationship is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier  
relationship. For this relationship to exist, Mr S not his builder, would need, amongst  other  
things, to have  a contractual relationship with B. However, that situation did not exist here. 
That being  so our investigator  had no proper basis for asking BoS to do anything  further.
BoS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr S did not. In summary,  he suggested 
we were mistaken in our analysis of the true contractual position. He had used his builders 
account to get the trade discounts only the builder  could have got. But he had done this with 
the consent of both his builder and B. He explained  this was common  practice. Moreover,  Mr 
S underlined  that he was the one who settled the bill with B. Mr S suggested all of this meant  
he was a contractual party as required by Section 75.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review  of Mr Ss 
Ref: DRN75339672complaint. I find I have no fair and reasonable grounds for saying BoS must take any further 
action. I explain below  why I have come to this conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr S is relying on the rights he tells us he has under Section  75. I think  its important to set 
out my role here. In considering a complaint about  a financial services provider, Im not 
determining the outcome  of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather,  in 
deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ss complaint, I have to take account of relevant  law, 
amongst other things.  Section  75 is relevant  law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But 
that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might 
reach if Mr S pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an 
informal alternative to the courts.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then he has a like claim against the 
credit provider. One of those circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. Here  there is no such relationship. This is because  unless the debtor is 
a party  to the contract, then there can be no relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Mr 
S suggests that the fact that amongst other  things, he was the one who went to Bs 
premises, spoke to B and used his builders account means he is a contractual  party in the 
contract with B. He is not. The contract  was clearly between the builder whose account was 
used and B. The invoice said that the customer was the builder. Suppose B had in breach of 
contract, not supplied the kitchen, only the builder could have taken  action against  B as it is 
the contracting party. Likewise, should the builder have left the invoice unpaid,  it would have 
been the builder  and only the builder that B could  have  pursued because only the builder 
was a contracting party to that contact.
Further, by using his personal credit card to pay off the invoice, Mr S did not as a result 
become a contracting party, which appears to be his reasoning. Rather he was simply 
discharging the liability  of the builder to pay the purchase price under the contract between 
the builder and B.
Ill add for completeness  it is a moot point whether Mr S even has any claim against  the 
supplier (B) in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, as I cant  fairly and 
reasonably say he is a party to the contract at all with B, as I have  already  mentioned.  So, 
this too would be a barrier  to his use of Section 75 in this complaint. But I dont need to make  
a finding about this as Ive already made  a finding  that there is no relevant debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship here.
Ref: DRN75339673If follows from what Ive said above that BoS has already gone much  further than I could 
have ever fairly and reasonably asked it to go. I say this because Im saying BoS need  not 
have paid Mr S anything at all, in these very particular individual circumstances.  But BoS has 
already paid Mr S thousands of pounds. It makes no difference that BoS freely  chose to 
make this payment  to him, that was its choice to make. In the circumstances, I cant  fairly 
and reasonably say it should now pay him more  on top of what it has already paid. 
Mr Ss complains  about BoSs complaint handling.  We arent able to deal with every type of 
complaint thats  brought to us. There are some  situations where the rules that govern this 
service known as the DISP rules dont allow us to deal with all of the issues  that have given 
rise to the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr S, but I cant  look at that part of his 
complaint. Thats because complaint handling isnt an activity listed within  DISP.  Complaints  
about how a complaint has been dealt with simply  are not something  that falls within  the 
remit of this service. I realise this may be very galling for Mr S as he laid a lot of emphasis on 
this issue. But, he can take this issue no further  with our service.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7533967