K821x#15complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA did not do enough to 
defend a chargeback made  by one of its customers.
background
A sold a watch for £7,795 to a customer through an online shopping  and auction  portal.  The 
credit card payment for the purchase was processed  through PayPal to As business  
account in December 2017. In April 2018  a chargeback of the card payment was raised and 
the amount debited. A provided information to PayPal to defend  the chargeback. But this 
was not successful and A does not think that PayPal made sufficient  efforts on its behalf.  As 
a result As ability to trade and use the account has been affected.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-A spoke  to PayPal  about the chargeback on 6 April 2018 and said that it had not 
received the watch  back from its customer.  And it provided a photograph of an 
-envelope the customer claimed hed originally returned the watch  in but which A said 
had been empty.  A also sent evidence of its report to the relevant fraud  authority. 
PayPal sent a response to the chargeback on As behalf  on 23 April 2018.
-In May 2018 the credit  card company  involved sent a pre arbitration response. This 
provided proof that A had signed for an item sent by post. And it asked for anymore 
comments by 2 June  2018 as it was intending to uphold the chargeback.
-On 7 May 2018 PayPal told A that the chargeback had been decided in the 
customers favour and A complained.
-PayPal had a responsibility to act reasonably in defending the chargeback even  
though this was not set out in its User  Agreement with A. But it couldnt  as A wanted 
have asked the operator of the online shopping  portal to provide details of an earlier  
claim the customer had made  through it and which  had not been  successful.
-PayPal had not done anything to respond to the pre arbitration request.  He did not 
think it was reasonable for it to say that A had provided all the information it had. The 
card issuer had provided further  evidence. A could have responded to this and 
explained that it had received two empty envelopes from the customer   both of 
which were not big enough to contain  the watch box. 
-He thought that if A had provided this information it was most likely its defence of the 
chargeback would have succeeded. 
-He said that A should be refunded the amount of the purchase and any payments it 
had made to the amount that had been  charged back. PayPal  could take into account 
any fees it had already  refunded.  And PayPal should pay A £150  for inconvenience 
and restore its account provided that there  was no negative  balance.
response to the opinion
A agreed  with the suggested  resolution.  It said that the most  important thing  was that its 
account was restored and an apology received. A said that the debt was hanging over it 
and a letter  from a debt collector addressed to its director about this had a negative  impact. 
It had lost several deals  where a customer wanted  to use PayPal.  And it also could not 
make listings  on the online shopping portal without a PayPal account. A said though  that the 
issue of any other compensation would be one for my discretion here.
PayPal did not agree. It said that it had provided  all the information  from A to the card issuer  
and so defended the chargeback to the best of its ability.  It did not tell A that the chargeback  
Ref: DRN75857882was closed before it had been. On 27 April 2018 it told A that it could take up to 80 days  for 
a final resolution. When  a chargeback is raised  the funds are debited  from the seller.  PayPal 
said it expected  the seller  to provide all relevant information. And the decision of the card 
issuer is out of its control.
further information
I asked PayPal for some more information to help me assess the complaint. It provided a 
copy of the complete initial  chargeback  request. And it confirmed  that its notes of a 
telephone call with A about the chargeback were provided in its response  to the chargeback.  
PayPal told me that it thought that there  was a basis to challenge the chargeback  originally. 
However, it did not have  any further information  at the pre arbitration stage. The issue was 
that the customer said he had returned the watch and A said that this was just an empty 
envelope. It added that it could not reimburse A under its Seller Protection scheme as the 
customer had claimed the goods were not as described.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
background
I want to set out a little bit more information  about this transaction as it will be relevant  to my 
findings. As set out, A had sold the item on 1 December 2017. It said it received an empty 
envelope from the customer on 6 December 2017. And a claim by its customer under the 
agreement with the operator of the online shopping  portal did not succeed. A reported what  it 
considered to be an attempt at fraud to the authorities.  And the customer  also tried to make 
a claim under PayPal  Buyer Protection on 3 January 2018 which was closed the same day. 
As part of the investigation by this service  A has provided a photograph of the second  
envelope it received on 23 December 2017 which it says was also empty.
the chargeback
I agree  with our adjudicator that it was reasonable to expect PayPal to assist A with 
defending the chargeback. Its response  is that it did do so. And in an email  to A on 27 April 
2018 it had said that your dispute is being  handled efficiently and carefully by our 
chargebacks team  and we will do everything within our power to resolve this matter for you.
Ive looked closely  at the information PayPal provided to defend the chargeback. The original  
submission to this service did not clearly show a copy of the telephone note was included.  Ill 
accept on balance that it was. There was a photograph  of the first envelope from A and 
confirmation it had reported an attempted fraud with a crime number. PayPal added in its 
comments that no proof of return was provided.  Merchandise has not been  received back.
In the pre arbitration  response proof was given that A had signed for an item on 
23 December 2017. Notably that was still for a different tracking number to the one A had 
provided evidence  about. It did not seem that As points had been understood by the credit  
card company.
Ref: DRN75857883my assessment
Ive examined the pictures of the envelopes and considered  the evidence  A has provided  
about the previous claims relating to this purchase. 
A did not know that the tracking number included with the chargeback  request was for the 
second envelope. Or I consider it would have  provided a photograph  of that envelope then 
too. And it would likely also have explained  that its customer was then claiming to have 
returned the item on two separate occasions. Im also not persuaded that the comments  Ive 
quoted above that PayPal added were that helpful.  A did not dispute receiving an envelope. 
The issue  was that it said it was empty. So asking for a proof  of delivery  albeit for the second 
envelope in response to the chargeback was not going to assist. The key point as far as A 
was concerned was that neither envelope was big enough for the package.  And PayPal 
already had a photograph  of the sales listing for the watch to help show  this.
When the pre-arbitration response came  in there  was further  evidence  which  A was not 
shown. And as Ive said this was for an envelope with a different tracking number.  Had A 
been told about this I think it could have  provided more information  to explain its claim.
PayPal is right to say that a decision about  a chargeback is not one that it makes.  And that it 
depends ultimately on the card issuer. I think that there were  shortcomings in the original 
explanation provided. I fully appreciate that this came from A. But that could only be based 
on its knowledge about the basis for the chargeback  request. I know A asked PayPal 
repeatedly for a copy of the information it had sent as A thought that this did not support its 
case. PayPal  declined to provide that citing  data protection concerns. But in saying that in 
my view it adopted more responsibility  for ensuring that As case had been properly 
defended. And this was heightened I think by it then deciding that it would not consult A 
about the pre arbitration request. It did not it seems  check whether As evidence tied up to 
the delivery receipt provided.
I cant know whether the credit card company would have changed its decision had it been in 
possession of all the relevant information and explanation at the time. I take into account that 
past claims by the customer  to the operator  of the online shopping site and PayPal had 
previously not proceeded. And that the evidence of a fraudulent  claim here in my view 
appeared strong. In particular the customer had said he returned the item on two separate 
occasions and the envelopes  did not seem big enough to return  a watch box. A has provided 
a fully consistent explanation of what happened  from the start. So I find on balance that it is 
more likely than not that the defence  of the chargeback ought to have  succeeded.
my award
My understanding is that A has paid £100 towards  the outstanding balance.  It should be 
refunded the original  sale amount and any payments it has made.  From this PayPal can 
deduct the receiving  fee of £187.28  and its chargeback fee of £14 which are fairly due. I 
think that the compensation suggested  for inconvenience is reasonable at £150.
I am not going  to be making an award for financial loss. I take into account that my decision 
about the chargeback is made  on a balance of probabilities, that A had previously offered 
£2,000 to settle the claim and that it has not provided me with compelling evidence  of a loss. 
Even if it had it was always a matter  for PayPal to decide whether or not to provide A with an 
account and I dont think here it can fairly  be responsible for As ability to trade. I know that A 
wants an apology but I think  it would only want that to be sincere. And as PayPal does not 
Ref: DRN75857884accept a mistake I wont be asking it to apologise.  Finally I have seen the debt collectors 
letter to the director  which I accept would have been  distressing. But any debt as I 
understand it would  have  been due from A. And I am only considering A as the complainant 
here which as a limited  company cannot  suffer distress.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to
1)Refund A £7,995 and any payments A made  towards any related amount owed less 
PayPals fees of £187.28 and £14 as set out above.
2)Pay A £150.
3)Reinstate the account provided that as a result of (1)and (2) it is now in credit.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7585788