K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2002. Mr E says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr E took out the store card in a shop  but FICL  has taken responsibility for the sale, and 
for this complaint,  so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr E  its clear 
he feels very strongly about his complaint. Ill explain  the reasons  for my decision  below.
Mr E says that he wasnt told that the PPI was an optional  product, and that he was lead to 
believe that he would be rejected for the card if he didnt take out PPI. FICL has provided a 
copy of Mr Es store card application,  which our adjudicator has also sent to Mr E. On 
reviewing this, Mr E said that it was clear he would have thought the PPI was compulsory as 
the application had been marked with a crosses where to sign  including the section for 
PPI.
Its impossible  for me to know what exactly was discussed at the time  so Ive thought about 
what Mr E has said  alongside the paperwork  that FICL has sent to us. Having done so Im 
afraid I dont agree with what Mr E has said.
While I can see that the application  form has been marked  with crosses indicating  action  
the section Protecting your account  also contains  the wording only sign if you require 
account cover. It doesnt say that cover is compulsory  or that an application is more likely 
to be approved by taking  out the PPI. Mr E was entering in to a financial agreement   so it 
was his responsibility to check what he was agreeing to by signing  and I think FICL  did 
enough to show  that the PPI policy was optional.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it could have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
Ive thought about everything Mr E has said - including what hes said about being  in full time 
employment so the policy wasnt right for him. But PPI, like most insurance,  is designed  to 
pay out in unforeseen circumstances, such as loss of employment or sickness.  It could also 
Ref: DRN71446582have paid out alongside and potentially for longer than Mr E wouldve received sick pay or 
relied on savings  for. So this point doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7144658