K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained to us that Firstplus Financial Group Plc (Firstplus) mis-sold him a 
single premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy in August 2002 when he applied 
for a loan.
background
Mr D says the PPI was mis-sold because he was told he had to have it. 
Firstplus said it was not liable for the PPI sale. Instead it says the policy was sold by 
Business A.
 
In my provisional decision dated  19 March, I explained why I considered  Firstplus  not to be 
responsible for the sale of Mr Ds PPI. I set out an extract  below:
Having looked at the evidence, I dont currently think  theres enough evidence to show that 
Firstplus sold the PPI policy to Mr D. I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the available evidence  and information about the sale.  This includes the 
broker application, the property valuation and also computerised  records  held by First Plus.  
Ive seen a copy  of the broker application  form, where Mr Ds loan and PPI requirements 
were set out. It shows Business As trading  name at the top of the form. Theres  also a box 
thats been ticked to show  that Mr D wanted to take out PPI cover  for himself. So it looks like 
Mr D had made a decision about buying PPI when he was dealing  with Business A  that is, 
before his application was sent to Firstplus. 
 
I have also seen the loan agreement that set out the loan and single premium PPI amount, 
which was signed  by Mr D on 7 September 2002. 
Finally, Firstplus sent us its computerised  records  from the sale.  I can see from these that 
Business A is described as the source  of the business. And given that the PPI was 
requested to be added to the loan by Business  A, I think this is further evidence  to support 
Business A being responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
So as I currently think Firstplus was not responsible for the PPI sale, it follows  that it also 
was not responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly. It follows  that I am not intending 
to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint  against Firstplus.
developments
Both Mr D and Firstplus confirmed that they had each received a copy  of my provisional 
decision. But neither of them had any other  evidence or information they wanted to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN71192322Given that neither  party  has anything to add to my consideration of Mr Ds complaint, I intend  
in my final decision to make a finding that FirstPlus Financial Group Plc isnt responsible for 
the sale of PPI to Mr D. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Firstplus Financial Group Plc isnt responsible  for the sale of PPI to 
Mr D. It follows  that we wont be looking further into this mis-sale complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7119232