K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Santander UK Plc didnt refund  an online payment of £1,350 which  she 
says she neither made nor authorised.
background
At the end of March 2019 an online payment of £1,350  was made from Mrs Ns account. She 
contacted Santander to say that she didnt recognise it and that she hadnt made it. 
When Santander looked at what had happened, however, it noted that the payment was 
made to a company which Mrs N had dealt with previously, although not for some years.  
That meant that the additional level of security  which  Santander applies when a payment is 
made to a new payee (usually, a code  sent by text message)  wasnt used. The banks 
systems did, however,  identify that the payment had been made from an unfamiliar  device, 
and so a challenge question was set; that question  was answered correctly.  
Mrs N said that nobody  knows or has access to her online banking details, so it wasnt clear 
how someone else could  have made  the payment. But it wasnt her who had done  so. 
Santander contacted the recipient  of the funds,  who said they werent expecting the 
payment. Theyd  been asked to refund the payment to a different account, although it seems 
theyd been given the wrong name on that account.  But, when Santander confirmed that the 
money had come from Mrs Ns account, the recipient returned it. Mrs N remained  unhappy  
about the time it took for the refund to be made  nearly four months. 
She referred  the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. She 
thought that Santander  was within its rights to decline  Mrs Ns claim for a refund, based on 
the information it had at the time. The investigator noted that Santander had refunded  the 
money as soon as the payee  had returned  it. She considered that Santander had handled 
the case fairly, politely  and within  reasonable  timescales. Mrs N didnt accept the 
investigators opinion  and asked that an ombudsman review the case.            
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same overall 
outcome as the investigator,  and for many of the same reasons.   
Of course the main  issue here has been resolved  in the sense that Mrs N has received a 
refund of the money she says should not have  been taken from her account in the first place. 
I acknowledge that the reason for that is that the recipient sent the money back, but clearly it 
wouldnt be fair for her to receive  a refund  from Santander as well.  
When Mrs N told Santander she hadnt made  the payment herself,  I think  the bank was 
entitled to investigate further to try to find out what had happened.  After  all, Mrs N had said 
that her log-in details  were safe;  the payment had been made  to someone shed paid in the 
past; and the payment had been  challenged by the bank  before it was released. 
The banks contact  with the recipient suggested  an element of wrong-doing. The payee had 
been asked to return the money to a different  account (not Mrs Ns), and had been  given  an 
incorrect name associated with that account. Theres  no suggestion that Mrs N was in any 
Ref: DRN73901212way linked to that account; but in my view it was this information  that demonstrated that Mrs 
N and the recipient had most  likely been targeted by fraudsters.
Im required  by law to determine Mrs Ns complaint about Santander by reference to what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Im not required to establish 
exactly what happened to facilitate the payment from Mrs Ns account; and, because  shes  
now had her money back, I dont believe I need  to. I do believe however that a fair outcome 
has been reached, and so I shant be requiring Santander to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to do anything more  to resolve Mrs 
Ns complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs 
N to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390121