K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that at the time MYJAR  Limited approved the loan it was not affordable.  
Mr M says that he wishes to claim back the interest and fees charged. 
background
MYJAR approved a facility for Mr M described  as a running account  credit with a credit limit 
of £1,475. It has been described in earlier correspondence as one loan for £1,000.  But in 
reviewing the background I think that a credit facility with this limit is the accurate description. 
MYJAR has provided the full credit agreement and the Loan  drawdown summary. The first 
paragraph of that summary says: This drawdown links to your existing Credit Agreement  
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
This summary document  shows  that Mr M drew down £1,000  on the same day as the credit 
agreement was made  17 May 2018. One feature of a running  account facility is that it has 
to be repaid within a reasonable time. MYJAR appears to have agreed with Mr M that this 
was a series of instalments from 1 June 2018 to 5 April 2019. The repayments were due to 
have been about £99 on 1 June 2018  and after that just over £145 each month.
Mr M received an email on 29 May 2018 to remind him that the first instalment of just under 
£99 was due to be collected  on 1 June 2018.  Mr M contacted  MYJAR  on 29 May 2018 
before the first instalment  was due to say that he wished the loan  to be cancelled.  The 
account was closed having been repaid on 24 June 2018 after 38 days and Mr M repaid a 
total of £1,133. So the interest  repaid  was £133.  MYJAR have said that because the 
agreement was cancelled  within  14 days  it was not reported to the credit  bureau MYJAR 
used. So it will not have  appeared on Mr Ms personal credit file. 
Mr M complained to MYJAR  on 25 June 2018 and received its final response on 
23 August 2018  in which it explained  that it had completed appropriate and proportionate 
affordability checks. It had considered the loan affordable  with the instalment structure  and 
amounts to repay  it. It did not think it needed  to do anything more.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and two of our adjudicators looked at it. The first 
adjudicator thought that MYJAR had not done enough and thought  that it ought to put things 
right for Mr M. MYJAR  disagreed, sent in some  additional details and asked for the opinion 
to be reconsidered.  This could  not be done  unless  MYJAR sent to us some specific  
information which took a long time to be sent.  It was explained to Mr M that as the business  
had asked for a second opinion we were  not in a position to close  the case. I refer back to 
this in my decision below.
The second  adjudicators view was that MY JAR had not done  anything wrong.  
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review it. So it was passed to me. 
Mr M has also asked  that I review why there was a long delay by MYJAR  between the first 
adjudication and the second. 
Ref: DRN76385542my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Ive looked at the creditworthiness assessment MYJAR has explained it carried out in 
May 2018. 
MYJAR was entitled to rely on the information Mr M gave to it and particularly as this was 
Mr Ms first credit application  to MYJAR.  It would have been proportionate for MYJAR to 
know his income and his regular  expenditure.  
I have seen Mr Ms on-line application form and he had informed MYJAR that he was 
employed full time, that he was paid each  four weeks and the net pay was £1,500.  This 
translates into the monthly net equivalent  of £1,625. I can see from its records  that MYJAR 
used £1,500 as the monthly  net figure,  so I have done the same.
Mr M said he paid £0 for rent or mortgage; he was a homeowner,  single  and had two 
dependents and a car. He told MYJAR that his monthly credit commitments  were  £300. He 
indicated £0 for other  monthly expenses. 
MYJAR has sent to us the results  of the credit  search it did in May 2018.  That shows  that 
Mr M had unsecured credit of around £9,500. But apart from that nothing  in particular to 
cause it concern. I can tell from comparing the personal credit file and these results  that the 
£9,500 was likely the finance loan for which  Mr M was paying £333 a month. So this fits with 
the information that Mr M had told MYJAR.  
MYJAR has explained that it used statistical data to work out what it called MIS  minimum 
income standard expenditure data. MYJAR calculated that Mr Ms MIS was 632 which  
I take to mean £632. 
MYJAR explained to us that it would have  taken his £1,500 monthly income, reduced it by 
his declared housing and credit  costs, reduced it by the £632 figure and then reduced it by a 
further 60%. That brought it to what MYJAR  describes as an affordability  score or figure of 
£221.20 for Mr M. And on that basis it decided  to approve the repayments the highest of 
which were going  to have been  about £145 a month on the drawdown  of £1,000. 
Ref: DRN76385543So taking into account the proportionate checks it carried out, the results of the credit search 
results and the fact that at this stage  of the lending relationship I would not have expected 
MYJAR to have delved any deeper  into Mr Ms finances, then I do not think  that MYJAR 
needed to do more. I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
delay
The delay between  the first and second  assessments  (January and May 2019) may well 
have been caused by MYJAR. It has sent to me screenshots whereby an information 
request by us in January  2019 was not actioned due to what  appears to have been  an 
administrative error by MYJAR.  But while the delay has been unfortunate I do not think  that 
any detriment has been caused to Mr M, and I dont think any compensation should be paid.
I realise that this will be disappointing  for Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7638554