K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy about the way Calpe  Insurance Company Limited has settled a claim 
on his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr O says a third party drove into the back of his car twice on a motorway. The third 
partys relative confirmed another relative would be in touch to sort things out. But 
everyone confirmed  it was the third partys fault and they apologised. Despite this Calpe 
advised Mr O that the third party had made  a claim against him. It subsequently settled 
this on a 50/50 split liability basis. Mr O isnt happy about this and says its unfair as he 
wasnt to blame.
Calpe said in its final response that the third party alleged the accident was caused by 
Mr O changing lanes.  Itd instructed  an engineer  to inspect Mr Os car and a claims 
investigator to take his detailed statement. It reported Mr Os version of events to the 
other insurer but liability was disputed. Calpe concluded that if the matter proceeded to 
court it was likely on balance that both drivers  would  be held equally liable for what  
happened. There also werent  any independent  witnesses or CCTV. So, it settled the 
claim on a without prejudice 50/50 split liability basis in line with the policy  terms and 
conditions.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
We can consider if Calpe has conducted a reasonable investigation. And the 
policy terms allow it to defend and settle  the claim as it sees  fit. 
Overall she thinks Calpe  investigated the claim reasonably.  It considered the 
evidence available  and the likelihood of succeeding in court. Here the evidence 
was one persons  word  against anothers; there werent any independent 
witnesses and no CCTV footage.  And Calpe decided to settle the claim on a 
50/50 basis.
Mr O may disagree with this decision but Calpe hasnt failed to comply with the 
policy terms or exercised its discretion unfairly  or unreasonably by settling the 
claim as its done.
Mr O doesnt agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He questions why he 
should take responsibility for an accident that wasnt his fault. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether 
Calpe has conducted  a reasonable investigation  into a claim, when making its own 
decision on liability.
Ref: DRN72263652Under the terms of the policy Calpes entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees  fit. It 
also doesnt need Mr Os approval of any decision to admit  liability, settle a claim or 
make a payment  to a third party. 
Overall I think  Calpe investigated matters reasonably.  It considered the vehicles 
damage, the engineers  comments  and what each party said including what  Mr O said to 
its claims investigator. But as its pointed  out here there werent any CCTV footage or 
any independent witnesses. Mr O comments that there was a passenger in the third 
partys car but that person isnt viewed as being independent.
Calpes claims investigator found  Mr O to be credible and reliable.  And concluded 
liability rested 100% with the third party. I can therefore understand Mr Os frustration 
when Calpe settled  the case on a 50/50 spilt liability basis. But Calpe isnt bound  by its 
investigators view. Its entitled to consider  all the evidence,  or lack of it, as whole. And 
its also entitled to take other commercial considerations into account  when deciding if it 
wishes to fight a case in court, such as the risk of losing and the potential costs.
Having done so Calpe concluded it didnt think it could  successfully  prove Mr O wasnt to 
blame. And it decided  to settle the other  partys  claim  on a 50/50 basis.
Ms O may disagree with Calpes interpretation  of the evidence  and decision to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 spilt liability basis but I dont  think its failed to comply with the policy 
terms or exercised its discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding  to settle the 
case as its done.  
Furthermore the settlement was made on a without prejudice basis. So, Mr O remains 
free to take up matter himself in court  if he wishes to do so. And if he is successful in 
court Im sure Calpe  will reconsider what is recorded about this accident and claim on Mr 
Os insurance record.
I understand Mr Os strength of feeling  and frustration. But taking  everything  into account 
I dont think Calpe has done anything wrong. And I dont think  I can fairly or reasonably 
require it to do anything  more or differently.  I dont  see a compelling reason to change  
the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7226365