K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  (Amtrust) has unfairly declined  a claim under 
her buildings insurance policy.
background
Mrs S has a buildings insurance  policy to cover a second home/ holiday let that she owns. In 
November 2017  Mrs S made a claim under the policy  for flooding to the property. She says it 
caused damage to a retaining wall, her outdoor garage and areas surrounding and within  the 
main dwelling of the property. 
Amtrust appointed its loss adjusters,  who well call Company A, who visited  Mrs Ss property 
and said her garage was set against a retaining  wall, and that the land to this side of the 
property rises significantly  higher above  that of the risk premises  and is held back by a 
combination of a random  stone wall and a two-tier single brick wall. 
Company A said Mrs S told it that since buying  the property several years earlier, she was 
aware water would discharge from points within the retaining wall at the side of the garage  
during the winter months.  But during the earlier  part of 2017, it was noted  that the flow of 
water from the back of the garage was significantly increasing, and the channels/gullies  into 
which the water was being discharged  were  unable to cope. 
Mrs S appointed her own building contractor and sought advice from the local authorities  to 
try and identify why the water had increased and where it was coming from. The parties 
were unable to give a conclusive finding  on this. But Mrs Ss builder  said that the retaining  
wall was on the move  which  he assumed  was because of a massive build up of water 
behind the affected length of the wall. His further  assumption was that an active spring on 
the upper  levels  of the wall was causing  this, and he said the garage should  be demolished 
and the wall rebuilt to avoid  any possible distress  or collapse of the structures. So Mrs S 
asked Amtrust to cover these costs under the claim.
After reviewing the evidence available, Amtrust covered Mrs Ss costs for water  damage that 
occurred to an internal  area of her property, and to appliances stored within  her garage.  It 
also covered costs to repair part of her drainage system after it was identified this had 
collapsed due to tree roots, and as such, the increased water from the retaining wall wasnt  
sufficiently draining  away  which Amtrust says was the likely cause of the water  pooling 
around Mrs Ss property and the subsequent internal damage. 
But Amtrust declined  to cover the costs of demolishing the garage, repairing or rebuilding the 
retaining wall and re-directing a potential source  of spring water.  It concluded that a definite 
cause of the increased water hadnt been found.  And it didnt think  the damage was caused 
by storm or flood. It said the demolition or removal of the garage and redirection of the 
potential spring  water  were preventative measures and not afforded  the benefit of policy  
cover. And that the loss of structural integrity  of the retaining wall was of a long-term nature 
and so not covered under  the policy.
Ref: DRN78788482Mrs S disagreed and complained that Amtrust  had failed  to provide her with an acceptable 
reason for declining the claim. She said that a severe storm had occurred  in the area in early 
2017, so she didnt think it was fair that storm or flood damage had been discounted as the 
cause. She also said shed raised the issue with Amtrust in April 2017, but it wasnt logged 
until several months later, meaning  the damage  had gotten worse by the time Company  A 
visited her property. But Amtrust maintained its position on the claim so Mrs S brought  her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter, but he didnt think Amtrust had acted unfairly so he 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs S disagreed so the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to start by saying that buildings  insurance isnt designed to cover  every 
issue that affects a property. Its there  to cover  the cost of repairing (or rebuilding)  a property 
if its damaged or destroyed because of a type of unforeseen event, often referred to as an 
insured peril,  and specified in the policy. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ss policy set out which insured perils  are covered under it. 
And when  making  a claim, Mrs S needs to demonstrate that an insured peril has occurred. 
This cover is also subject to certain exclusions and limitations.
Its not in dispute  that the flow of water coming  from Mrs Ss retaining  wall has caused,  or 
contributed towards  its loss of structural integrity. And its had a similar effect on one of the 
garage walls. But damage alone  doesnt  mean  an insured peril has taken place. And from 
what Ive seen, Mrs S has been  unable to demonstrate exactly  why the water  has increased, 
or where  its coming from. Mrs S thinks the damage started as the result of a storm that 
caused flooding.  And her builder thinks its because of an active spring  so Ive considered  
both arguments  for completeness.
With regards to an active spring behind the wall, Ive seen no further evidence to support this 
theory. And on balance,  I dont think an assumption  is enough to conclude that this is the 
cause. So it follows, Im not persuaded an active spring is the cause of the increased water, 
based on the information available. 
Mrs S says she thinks a storm that affected  her area in early 2017  has caused the increased 
water and damage. But Amtrust dispute  this because it says the damage looks  to have 
happened gradually, over time, and not as the result  of a one-off event such as a storm or 
flood. And from what Ive seen, Company As report supports this finding.
Mrs Ss policy does  cover her insured property for storm and flood damage. But according to 
the terms Ive seen, Amtrust is correct in saying that cover available  under the policy, 
excludes damage caused by wear and tear or any other gradually  operating  cause. On the 
face of it, if the damage to both structures has happened gradually and over time, then it 
would seem the claim for this has been  fairly declined  regardless of the cause. So Ive 
looked at the evidence  available to decide whether I agree with Amtrusts  decision regarding 
this.
Ref: DRN78788483Mrs Ss builder  visited her property in March  2017,  around a month after the storm shes 
referenced. He later compiled a report a year later which commented on his earlier  visit 
where he noted that during the course  of the past few years,  the property has been  
experiencing severe water ingress  through a high stone retaining  wall. This suggests the 
issue with severe water  had been going  on for quite some time, before  the storm, and also 
before Mrs S raised a claim with Amtrust. So, on this alone, and in the absence  of anything 
else, I am persuaded  that the damage  was occurring  gradually over a number  of years.
But Ive also seen further evidence, that gives support to the gradually occurring nature of 
the damage. In Mrs Ss homebuyers  report from when she bought  the property in 2011/2012  
it says:
Wall  At the top, the remaining stone wall appears sound and vertically true. This is shored 
up at lower level by a two-tier brick retaining  wall, which is showing signs of slight distress  
and slight movement at the rear of the garage and the face of the brickwork is delaminating. 
This would benefit  from repointing or rendered. 
It appears there may be a surface  water problem, hence the reason for the grill fitting on the 
front of the garage  and the gully and drain  by the front door, and also channels  formed in the 
concrete path to collect the surface  water, and the extent would only be apparent in wet 
weather. The approximately 4m high retaining  wall to the rear of the garage presently 
appears stable, and there is nothing to indicate  that further collapse is imminent or likely. If 
there is a ground  water problem in the area,  particularly the high bank behind the retaining 
wall, this could destabilise  the wall, thus it is important that ownership and liability  for its 
repair/maintenance is established.
From what  Ive seen, Mrs S is claiming for repairs to her retaining  wall to correct  issues  of 
movement which are affecting the soundness  of its structure and that of the garage  beside it. 
And her builders report suggests  this is happening as the result  of water behind  the wall. But 
the comments made by this same builder, and those of her surveyor  from when she bought 
the property, tell me that this type of damage  to the wall was already occurring  long before  
this claim and the storm Mrs S refers  to.
So on balance, Im persuaded  that the damage Mrs S is claiming  for in relation to her 
retaining wall is more  likely to have  happened  gradually over a period  of time, and therefore 
isnt covered under the policy, so I wont be asking Amtrust to pay this part of the claim.
Mrs S is also claiming for damage to the structure  of her garage which she says was 
damaged by a storm. But even  if I did agree  that a storm  took place around the time the 
damage to the garage occurred, Id need to also be satisfied that it was the main  cause  of 
the damage. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think  it was.
This is because in the report from Mrs Ss builder it also states that adjacent to the retaining 
wall, is a single brick-built brick garage  that would appear to be assisting with the retention of 
this wall. One garage wall, built against  the stone retaining wall, is experiencing the severe 
flow of water  from the elevated property and is in danger itself, of suffering from the pressure 
of the wall and the water.
Ref: DRN78788484This statement suggests that the damage to the garage has happened as a result of issues 
with the retaining  wall. And Ive already explained  why Im not persuaded the repairs to this 
structure that are being claimed for in this case are covered under the policy. And as the 
issues with the retaining  wall also seem to be the cause of the damage  to the garage, it 
follows I agree that the demolition  and any subsequent repair  to the garage  to deal with 
these issues arent  covered either.  So I wont be directing Amtrust to pay this part of the 
claim.
In summary,  based on the information  Ive seen in this complaint, I dont think  Amtrust has 
unfairly declined  the parts  of Mrs Ss claim that are in dispute in this case. So I wont  be 
directing it to pay out any more on the claim than it already has.
Ive considered all of Mrs Ss comments  including what shes said about Amtrust  not 
logging her initial claim for several months, which she thinks  is why the damage  looked 
worse by the time Company A attended  her property. And that tree roots  may have  also 
contributed to the damage of the retaining wall. But Ive already explained why I think  the 
damage to the wall was gradually occurring quite some time before Mrs S made Amtrust 
aware of it, and that gradual damage isnt covered under her policy. So these points dont 
change my conclusion.
From photographs Mrs S has sent us, it seems shes  now appointed and paid for her own 
contractors to carry out the work  she wanted  covered under the claim. If Mrs S can provide 
any new evidence about the damage  on the back of this, Id expect  Amtrust  to consider it. 
But based  on what Ive seen at this stage,  I wont be directing Amtrust to do anything further.
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs S as she feels  strongly that the 
claim should be covered  in full. But I hope  she can understand why Ive reached the decision 
I have, based  on the information  available to me. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7878848