K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004, and then amended  in 2007.  Mr and Mrs B say National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) mis-sold  them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, NatWest had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs B have said they didnt know they had taken out PPI.
2004 sale
Mr and Mrs B initially took out PPI with their mortgage in 2004.
NatWest has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs application form for the mortgage.  This 
included a section  on PPI, which said that Mr and Mrs B wanted to take it out, wanted both 
of them  to be covered  and showed the amount of cover  they wanted.  There are handwritten 
amendments to the form, including to the sections above and below the PPI section. But the 
PPI section has not been amended. I think this suggests Mr and Mrs B had read it and were  
happy with what  it said.
NatWest has also sent us a copy of the mortgage  offer letter. And this says that Mr and 
Mrs B have instructed  NatWest to arrange PPI. Mr and Mrs B have said that the mortgage  
offer letter said that PPI was required.  But I cant see anything on the letter  which says this.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that NatWest did make Mr and Mrs B aware  
they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs B chose to take it, knowing they didnt 
have to.
2007 sale
Mr and Mrs B then amended the PPI policy to cover  their increased  monthly  payments when 
taking a further advance on their mortgage  in 2007.
NatWest has sent us a copy of the further  advance quotation. And this shows  that PPI has 
been selected, says that the PPI is optional and shows the cost of the increased PPI.
NatWest has also sent us a copy of the letter sent to Mr and Mrs B confirming the further 
advance had been agreed in principle. This also showed that PPI had been selected  and 
included a direct  debit instruction for the PPI to be completed.
So I think NatWest made  it clear to Mr and Mrs B that PPI had also been taken out with their 
further advance, and that they had a choice about it.
Ref: DRN73276772both sales
I havent seen  clear evidence that NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B any personalised advice 
about the PPI. So I dont  think  it recommended the PPI to them. This means NatWest didnt 
have to check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs B. But it did have to make  sure they got the 
information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that Mr B wouldve  been  entitled to significant sick pay from his 
employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he received. It couldve 
paid out for longer than theyve told us Mrs B wouldve  been  entitled to full sick pay. And it 
wouldve meant they didnt need  to rely on any savings they had to make their mortgage 
repayments if one of them wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Bs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs B off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7327677