K820x#14complaint
Mr J was involved in a road traffic accident. He doesnt think  its fair that Aviva Insurance 
Limited have settled his insurance claim on a 50/50 split liability  basis.
background
Mr J was involved in a collision with a bus when they were  both making  a turn. After  
reviewing CCTV evidence  of the accident,  Aviva accepted an offer of 50/50 split liability  from 
the third party  insurer.  Mr J is unhappy  as he feels the bus encroached into the lane he was 
driving in more than was necessary to make the turn. Because  of this, he doesnt  think Aviva  
shouldve accepted any liability for the accident.  Hes feels that Avivas decision is incorrect,  
which will have an adverse effect  on his no-claims discount and future insurance premiums.
Our investigator found Aviva had acted reasonably by agreeing  a 50/50 split liability.  He felt 
the policy terms allowed  them to make this decision, and that they had sufficient evidence  to 
do so. Because  of this he didnt feel that Aviva should do anything more.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He felt Aviva  hadnt considered his evidence  before 
making their decision, and didnt review their decision after receiving his arguments. He 
doesnt agree with the reasons for Avivas decision and doesnt think  its fair that decisions 
can be made for economic reasons  where the cost of settling the claim is less than the 
cost of contesting  the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whether Aviva handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It 
isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. Decisions on responsibility are best dealt 
with by the courts.
The terms of Mr Js car insurance policy allowed Aviva to conduct the claim, and gave them 
full discretion to agree  a settlement. Because of this Aviva didnt need Mr Js agreement or 
approval to agree a 50/50 split liability (or any other  decision) with the third party  insurer. But 
I would expect them to base any decision,  even  if its cost related, on things such as:
The versions of events provided  by Mr J and the third party.
Evidence provided to support or challenge the version of events.
Legal precedent,  legislation  and the Highway Code.
The third party provided CCTV  evidence, which Aviva reviewed as part of their decision 
making process. Ive looked at this, and it clearly shows the accident  take place. So it was 
reasonable for Aviva to take this into consideration when making their decision.  Aviva have 
also considered  the Highway  Code  and how it applies to large vehicles turning.
Ref: DRN79436382Mr J has challenged this CCTV evidence by providing a video of another  bus (at a different 
time of day and in different traffic conditions) negotiating the same junction. He feels  this 
shows the bus he collided  with didnt need to encroach on his lane as much as it did. I 
appreciate that Mr J feels this, along with his version  of events, shows  hes not liable  for the 
accident. But as Ive said, Im not making  a liability decision. It was reasonable for Aviva to 
consider Mr Js evidence,  but as his video doesnt show the accident itself,  I think it was 
reasonable that Aviva didnt make their decision based on this evidence alone. 
Overall Im satisfied that Aviva handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. Their  
decision to accept the third party offer of a 50/50  split liability  was made  with full regard to all 
of the evidence and circumstances of the accident,  and was taken in line with the terms of 
Mr Js car insurance policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Aviva Insurance  
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7943638