K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2003. Ms S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
Ms S took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms S says that didnt know about the PPI, and that she wouldve declined it if she had known 
about it. But I think that FICL made  it clear  that she didnt have to take out he PPI, and that 
she chose to do so, although I can understand why she doesnt remember this as it was so 
long ago. I say this because FICL has provided a copy of Ms Ss store card application  and 
I can see that the policy is presented as optional, and Ms S has signed to select it. This is 
separate to her signature  for the card.    
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said, but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7478552