K820x#14complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the valuation of her car by esure Insurance  Limited,  following a claim 
on her motor insurance policy. 
background
Mrs K made a claim on her motor insurance  policy after her car was hit by another car, when 
it was parked outside her home. esure  decided the car was a write-off (known as a total loss) 
and it said it would settle the claim  by paying  Mrs K the cars market value. It valued  the car 
at £2,155. Mrs K had initially tried to claim through the other drivers insurer but wasnt  happy 
with their valuation  so decided to claim  via her own policy with esure.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this amount, as she thinks the car is worth around £4,000. She said 
she hadnt owned the car for very long,  had paid £3,750 for it and said it had a very low 
mileage for a car of its age. She also pointed out that her car had recently had a new roof 
(including glass window  replacing the original plastic window) and a new key with remote  
fob. Mrs K also says shed bought a parking permit, spent money  on petrol taking  the car to 
and from its roof replacement and has now had to pay to put her number plate onto her 
replacement car. 
An adjudicator considered  Mrs Ks complaint but she didnt think  it should  be upheld.  She 
checked the relevant trade  guides in order to see if esures valuation seemed fair. And, she 
thought the valuation was reasonable and in line with the policys terms and conditions.  
Mrs K didnt agree. She says her car is a classic  car and is valued around £4,000  she 
provided a letter from a specialist garage  and adverts of other  cars to show she couldnt 
replace her car with something similar for the amount esure had offered. As Mrs K didnt 
agree, the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  esure  has 
made an unreasonable offer to Mrs K. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ks policy say if the car is lost or damaged the most esure 
will pay is the market value of the car at the time of the loss. It defines  market value as the 
cost of replacing the car with one of the same make, model, specification, age, mileage and 
condition immediately before the loss.
Its not our role to value  the car but to consider  whether the valuation the insurer  has given is 
a fair one. To do that, I consider in particular  the various trade  guides  used for valuing cars, 
as well as all the other evidence provided to us by both sides.  
Mrs K says this was a classic car. But I dont think whether the car was classic or not 
makes a difference in Mrs Ks case. Mrs K hasnt taken out an agreed value insurance 
policy, so esures liability  under  this policy is limited to the cars market value. Its standard 
practice for the industry to use trade  guides to work out the estimated market  value of a car. 
And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides give are based on the 
advertised prices of similar  cars with similar  age and mileage for sale at the time of loss. 
Ref: DRN79468132I acknowledge Mrs K doesnt think the guides  reflect the condition of her car, but Im satisfied 
that the valuations the guides have given  are based  on actual adverts  of similar cars 
available for sale.  So I dont think its unreasonable to use them to assess  whats a fair 
market value.
esure said the range of values the guides  gave  for Mrs Ks car was between £1,691 - £2,315  
 with an average of £1,995.33. But that it offered  Mrs K £2,155 to match the other drivers 
insurers valuation. 
Ive also checked  the same  three  guides as esure,  and got the same values. Ive also 
checked a fourth guide, which gave a value of less than what Mrs Ks been offered.   
Mrs K has provided advertisements showing cars priced higher than the amount shes  been 
offered. But Ive also seen adverts which support esures valuation  of the cars market value. 
Ive also considered the letter Mrs Ks provided from a specialist garage.  The letter says the 
garage would expect Mrs K to have to pay around £4,000 to replace her car with something 
similar  but this is based on their prior knowledge  of the car which  theyd last seen in 
March 2018. So I dont think the adverts Mrs K has provided and this letter  are enough,  
taking into account  all the other evidence  in particular the trade guides    to  say that 
esures valuation  is unfair.  
Im also conscious that the MOT on Mrs Ks car had expired in April 2018  around  seven  
months prior to the car being written  off. And I think this is likely to affect the valuation as 
well since there  were  advisory notes at the previous MOT, including one relating to a rusty  
sub frame.
Ive taken into account that Mrs K had recently had a new roof with a glass  window fitted  to 
her car and also bought a new key with remote fob. But, as I said above, esures liability in 
this claim is limited to the cars market value.  And Im satisfied that esure has offered to 
settle the claim fairly. 
Mrs K has also said she doesnt think the offers fair, taking into account the time and 
inconvenience of finding a similar  vehicle and also the costs  shes incurred  including  her 
residents parking permit which is non-refundable and the cost of having her number plate on 
retention. But esure isnt required to cover this. 
By its very nature, being involved  in an accident and having a car written off is inconvenient 
and most  likely involves  other financial losses. But esure is only required to cover losses that 
are covered  under the terms of Mrs Ks insurance  policy. And, while  I acknowledge Mrs Ks 
frustration about  suffering  losses  from an accident  she wasnt responsible  for, these losses  
arent covered under the terms of the policy.
So, having  taken everything into account,  Im satisfied the valuation  made  by esure  for 
Mrs Ks car is a fair and reasonable one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Ref: DRN79468133Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7946813