K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  account repayments.
background
Mrs P opened the account in February  1997. Six months later Mrs P was sold a PPI policy  
over the phone to cover  her account repayments. The policy  cost no more than £10 a month 
and a successful  claim  on the policy wouldve covered her repayments  on the account if Mrs 
P was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job for up to 12 months  per 
claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld because  he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Mrs P.
Mrs P disagrees. She says the advisor  made the insurance a condition of the borrowing.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information  I 
have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs P that she had a choice  in taking the policy. Ive seen  a 
copy of Mrs Ps credit agreement and I can see on it that although  she had the option  to take 
PPI, Mrs P didnt select to take it at the time she opened her account. The policy was 
eventually sold six months  later after her account was opened. And because the policy was 
sold a few months after the account  was opened  I think its likely Mrs P wouldve known she 
had a choice in taking it and the policy was taken because she chose to take it.
Ref: DRN70957752I dont think FICL advised Mrs P to buy the policy.  What this means is that FICL didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs P, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
I cant say whether FICL gave all the information as they shouldve.  That being  said even if 
FICL did give all the information  Mrs P needed to make an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Mrs P was eligible  for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs P says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings she could  use to make her repayments  if she couldnt work or lost her job. But 
the policy  wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially  longer. So I think  the policy 
wouldve provided  a useful benefit  for Mrs P in her circumstances.  
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs P and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs P on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of 
value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint  against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7095775