K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. Ill refer to 
the business as Halifax during this decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that this policy was sold during a phone call. Halifax has said that this sale 
took place during a meeting. Based on the evidence, I think  its more  likely than not that this 
sale took place  during  a meeting where  Halifax made a recommendation to take PPI. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ss credit  card application. Section 5 is headed Product 
details. In this section there are options for PPI and a different product. A typed X 
has been placed next to the option for PPI. 
As this sale took place  in a meeting and some  of Mr Ss other personal details have 
been typed on the form, I think that its more likely than not that the a discussion took 
place about the PPI between Mr S and the Halifax adviser and the X was added to 
the form to reflect what Mr S had decided  after he agreed to take the PPI and 
before he signed  the overall  application form. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about  being told that he had a better chance of 
being accepted for the card if he took PPI, but Ive not seen  any evidence to support 
what hes said. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Based on what Mr S has told us about  a respiratory  health condition he had as well 
as another condition, I dont think that he would have thought  it likely that hed need 
to claim because of them  - so I still think that the recommendation was suitable and 
the policy was right for him.
Ive noted that on Mr Ss credit card application its been recorded  that he was a 
telephone operator. Mr S told us in his PPI questionnaire that he was an IT analyst. 
Ref: DRN70487312Our adjudicator spoke  to Mr S in 2016  to try and clarify his employment 
circumstances as there was also a suggestion that he may have been  a contract 
worker. 
As Mr S told us during this call that he was a permanent employee, this is also how 
Ive considered his employment circumstances when coming to my decision.  So, 
based on Mr S being a permanent employee I think that he was eligible for the policy  
and I dont think that it would have been very difficult  for him to make  a claim on the 
policy. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means.  But in the telephone call with our adjudicator, Mr S said that 
he couldnt remember how much  sick pay he would have got and he had no savings.  So I 
cant fairly say that he didnt have a need  for PPI. The PPI policy would also have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay that Mr S had. So these  points  dont  change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7048731