K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the decision made by The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU)  to turn down  his personal  accident claim.
background
Mr M holds  a commercial select policy, which includes personal accident cover. Under  that 
section of cover, he had two insured occupations.   
In June 2015, Mr M had a fall whilst at work  and injured his ankle. He made  a claim for 
temporary total disability  under the policy, which was accepted.  After  the maximum claim 
payment had ended, Mr M made a claim for permanent  total disability (PTD).
In February 2019,  NFU turned  down the PTD claim. It thought Mr M was still able to work in 
one of his insured occupations, and so didnt meet the policy  requirements  for a claim to be 
paid. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She accepted  that 
the accident had caused Mr Ms ankle injury, but she didnt think  Mr M had shown that his 
ankle injury prevented  him from carrying out all of his occupation. 
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy includes  personal accident  cover for Mr M, and his stated occupations  in the 
policy schedule for this cover were  landscape gardener and hardware dealer. 
The policy says:
WE will pay the benefit shown on YOUR schedule if, during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE, 
an INSURED  PERSON suffers:
1.An ACCIDENT which, within 104 weeks of its occurrence, is the direct cause of:

c) permanent TOTAL DISABILITY
Total disability is defined as:
A disability which totally prevents an INSURED PERSON from performing all of their 
occupation described on YOUR schedule.
If the INSURED PERSON  is not in paid work it will mean a disability which totally prevents  
them from performing  paid work of any kind.
Although Mr M has two insured occupations, he explains his main role was that of a 
landscape gardener,  and that his role of hardware dealer only accounted  for around  5% of 
Ref: DRN74883842his time. He seems to accept that his accident hasnt impacted his ability to work as a 
hardware dealer.  
Its not entirely clear  whether Mr M was in paid work when the accident happened. I 
understand Mr M had been off from work before the accident because  of a previous injury,  
and was apparently  claiming temporary  total disability benefit at the time. Though  he says 
the accident in June  2015 happened whilst he working as a landscape gardener. Ive 
therefore based my decision  on the assumption that he was working when the accident 
happened, and so the first part of the total disability definition  should apply.
On that basis, the policy says that a disability  would need to prevent an insured person  from 
performing all of their occupation.  It would be unreasonable  to expect someone to meet this 
definition, and so instead, I would interpret  it to mean the material  and substantial duties of 
their occupation. 
Therefore, if Mr Ms role of hardware dealer  did indeed only account for 5% of his occupation 
(and I note his business description in the policy schedule  does  appear  to support this), then 
if his accident  prevented  him from working as a landscape gardener, I would likely conclude  
that a proportion of the benefit should be payable. It seems to me itd be unfair to turn down 
the claim entirely on the basis that Mr M was able to carry out only 5% of his material  and 
substantial duties.
Ive therefore  considered  the medical  evidence to see if this shows  that Mr M has a 
potentially valid (proportionate)  claim for PTD.
In March 2018, Mr M was examined by Mr H (consultant orthopaedic surgeon).  Mr H noted  
that Mr M had experienced back and neck problems before the accident. Mr H thought  that 
the injuries Mr M experienced in the accident  were  of a minor,  soft tissue nature, and should 
have resolved within three to four weeks. Mr H was of the opinion that Mr M had 
exaggerated his symptoms, undergone unnecessary  surgery, and continued to exaggerate 
his symptoms and disabilities.  Mr H concluded by saying that the injury in 2015 had not, in 
his opinion, reduced Mr Ms prospects of employment. He therefore thought  Mr M was fit for 
full-time employment (he was aware that Mr M had previously been a landscape gardener). 
I see that Mr H had referred to a statement made  in 2016 by Mr Ms treating consultant in 
orthopaedics at the time (Mr P). In October  2016, following Mr Ms ankle surgery in June 
2016, Mr P said that In terms of his [Mr Ms] long term rehabilitation, I have explained to him 
that his days of undertaking a profession  of tree surgeon is over because of the further  risk 
of injury. I have advised him to look into another job which is more desk  based. 
As our investigator pointed out, Mr M wasnt insured as a tree surgeon. I understand that Mr 
M did some work as a tree surgeon  as part of his role as a landscape gardener, but it wasnt  
his sole duty in that role. Mr Ms policy schedule describes the part of his business relating to 
landscape gardening as grounds maintenance including gardening and fencing.
Whilst I appreciate a landscape gardener is a manual job, a tree surgeon is a specialist (and 
high risk) role that involves activities - such as climbing trees  which differ  quite significantly 
from activities such as gardening and fencing.  Though in any event, Mr P thought  that Mr M 
couldnt do the role of tree surgeon because of the potential for further injury. But that 
doesnt mean that Mr Ms existing ankle injury prevented him from doing that role, or another 
manual role. 
Ref: DRN74883843Based on Mr Ps statement alone,  I dont think there  was enough information to support that 
Mr Ms ankle injury  was permanent or that it prevented him from carrying out his role of a 
landscape gardener.
NFU arranged for Mr H to examine Mr M in March  2018. I understand that NFU had 
attempted to contact  Mr P about  Mr Ms condition, but Mr P had left the country and so 
couldnt provide  further comment. It was therefore  reasonable for NFU to arrange for Mr M to 
have an independent examination with a specialist for an up-to-date view on his condition - 
particularly as this was a PTD claim, and therefore  Mr M would need to show that his 
disability was permanent  for a claim to be paid.
Mr H thought that Mr M didnt have  a significant injury as a result of the accident  and that 
any symptoms attributable to the accident had long since resolved, and that he was able to 
work.
Consequently, I dont think Mr M has shown that his injury was permanent, or that it totally  
prevented him from carrying  out the material and substantial  duties  of his insured 
occupation/s.
Since bringing his complaint to this service, Mr M has explained that hes undergone  a work 
capability assessment  for the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP),  and they 
concluded that he had limited capability for work.
I havent seen  the report  completed  by the DWP, only the outcome. I therefore dont know  if 
theyve concluded  that Mr M has limited  capability  to work solely as a result of his ankle 
injury attributable to the accident,  or if there are other factors  involved in this (as I 
understand that Mr M has a number of medical problems).
If Mr M thinks the DWP reached  its conclusion that he has limited capability to work solely  
because of his ankle injury, then as this would seemingly contradict Mr Hs conclusions,  
I would suggest  he obtain the DWP report and provide this to NFU for its consideration.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7488384