K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy at the service he received from British Gas Insurance  Limited when  he 
made a claim on his home emergency cover  policy.  
background
Mr P has a HomeCare home emergency cover policy provided by British Gas, which 
covers his boiler and central heating system. On 28 February 2018 during  a period of very 
cold weather Mr Ps boiler broke  down  and he was left without hot water  or central heating.  
So he called first thing  in the morning  to request a repair. He was under the impression  his 
policy terms meant if he called before lunchtime  an engineer would attend the same day. 
Once he eventually  got through he was offered  an appointment for the afternoon of the 
following day (Thursday 1 March), but the call handler couldnt give a more precise time than 
12pm to 6pm which Mr P thought was unhelpful  as British Gass  website says a two-hour 
timeslot is available  if requested. On the day of the appointment the engineer  called to say 
he couldnt attend that afternoon, which annoyed Mr P as hed arranged his day around the 
appointment. The next appointment the engineer could offer was Tuesday 6 March, which 
wasnt convenient for Mr P. So the boiler  was finally repaired on Wednesday 
7 March, seven  days  after Mr P originally called. The leak affected  the plug to his washing 
machine which  the engineer said needed  an electrician to visit. British Gas couldnt arrange 
this for a couple  of days which added to Mr Ps frustration. 
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received, and suspects the problem was caused  by the 
way the boiler  had originally been installed by British  Gas in 2011.  He believes the diameter 
and fall of the pipe didnt  comply with the manufacturers instructions and the pipe wasnt 
adequately lagged. He complained, requesting compensation of £1,897.81  being the total 
premiums hes paid for his policy since inception less the cost of six annual service visits at 
£95 each which have  taken place. He also wants them to rectify the faulty  installation of the 
boiler. 
British Gas agreed their service had fallen short in some respects.  They explained they do 
aim to attend the same day for boiler  breakdowns, but this all happened during  a red 
weather alert period known as the Beast from the East when they received a very high 
volume of calls and their engineers were extremely busy. They  prioritise  frail or vulnerable 
customers or those with small children, but theyd checked Mr P had an electric heater  so 
wasnt completely without heating. They waived the £50 policy excess and paid 
compensation of £130. With regard to the installation British Gas arranged for an engineer  to 
visit who said the installation complied with regulations and the majority of the pipe had been 
lagged correctly. He felt it was possible the lagging could have moved over time as its in an 
exposed area. But even if the small  length  of exposed pipe had been lagged  it wouldnt have 
prevented it freezing in such cold weather. And as Mr P hadnt reported  any problems 
previously they didnt think the installation was responsible for the leak.  
Mr P disagreed as he feels British  Gas have breached their own terms and conditions by not 
turning up on the day he called  and because their Customer Relations team didnt  call him 
within 48 hours as promised. Mr P didnt  want to arrange a repair himself as this would 
destroy the evidence  of the faulty  installation  by British Gas.  So he complained to this 
service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  Although she understood how 
inconvenient and unpleasant the experience had been, she didnt think British Gas had 
treated Mr P unfairly and thought the compensation totalling £180 was in line with what  shed  
Ref: DRN70488142recommend. British Gas says it installed Mr Ps boiler in December 2011 as a like for like 
swap, simply connecting the new boiler to the existing pipework. The minimal difference in 
diameter of the pipe (21.5mm  compared  to 22mm) wouldnt have been noticeable during 
annual service visits and hadnt caused any previous problems. So she had no evidence  to 
say the boiler  had been installed incorrectly. But shed consider an experts  report confirming 
the installation  was faulty. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint..   Having done so, Im not going to uphold  
it. Let me explain why.
Mr P has provided us with a copy of the terms and conditions  of his HomeCare  policy  
which says British Gas will aim to attend the same day if a customer  phones  to report  a 
problem before 1pm. He thinks this means  British Gas has breached  its contract with him, 
but I disagree. Firstly that term is expressed  as an aspiration, not a commitment,  and I think 
its inevitable during a period of exceptionally bad weather not every caller  will receive a 
same day appointment.  
And British  Gas has shown me that the terms and conditions Mr P has relied on were  dated 
2013 and had been replaced by updated  terms and conditions in 2017.  Mr P would have 
been sent the updated booklet when  he renewed  his policy, so the revised terms applied  at 
the time of the complaint. And the new booklet  says well  carry out any repairs or visits 
youre entitled to within a reasonable time,  unless something beyond our control makes that 
impossible. I dont think it was impossible for an engineer  to attend the same day. But 
given the volume  of calls from customers reporting  leaks or boiler breakdowns I think  it was 
reasonable for British Gas to triage the repair visits which would mean  some  people would 
be seen more quickly than others. And British Gas did check  Mr P had some form of heating.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  British  Gas didnt do their best to ensure it helped as many 
people as possible in the circumstances. And the revised appointment could have taken 
place a day sooner  if Mr P had been able to accommodate  the 6 March. British Gas has 
acknowledged that its service could have  been  better, but I think  waiving  the £50 policy 
excess and paying  compensation  of £130  is fair. 
Mr P says evidence from the British  Gas engineer about the installation isnt impartial, but Mr 
P hasnt  provided  impartial evidence either.  Im not qualified to determine  whether a boiler 
has been installed correctly, and in the absence of evidence I give weight to an engineers  
professional opinion. Nobody  is suggesting Mr P (or anyone) deliberately moved  or removed 
the lagging from the pipe,  I think the engineer was simply suggesting that the lagging  might 
have been in place originally but may have moved over time. Ive no grounds to disagree 
with this. I also think its reasonable  to expect a faulty installation  to become apparent 
sooner, and Mr P hadnt reported  any issues with the boiler for almost  seven years.  So 
without evidence that British Gas installed the boiler  incorrectly and that the installation  
directly led to the leak I wont be asking British Gas to do anything more.  
I understand British  Gas can arrange  for the condensate pipe to be replaced  with 22mm if Mr 
P wishes, on a chargeable basis. I leave it to Mr P to decide  if he wants to arrange this.
Ref: DRN70488143my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7048814