K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) unfairly refused to pay his 
buildings insurance  claim for storm damage.
background
In June 2016 Mr J claimed under his L&G home insurance policy.  He said that in January 
that year a storm had damaged a sloping roof and the inside of his home. Hed already, in 
February 2016, had the external damage repaired. He hadnt had repairs done to the internal 
damage. But he hadnt got round to claiming  on his L&G policy. However  in June 2016 he 
said there had been  further storm damage. But this time to the flat roof of a bay window, as 
well as more internal damage. This prompted him to claim for both incidents  of damage.
Mr Js L&G policy expired  in February 2016. After that a different insurer  provided his cover.  
So its only the January 2016 damage  that can be considered in this complaint  against L&G.  
If Mr Js unhappy with how his claim for the June 2016 damage has been  handled  he will 
need to complain against the insurer providing  his cover at that time. 
Matters have been confused a little by what seems  like some  joint claims handling between 
the different  insurers. For instance they both relied on the same surveyors report. Ultimately 
L&G didnt cover any repairs to any external  parts of Mr Js home. But it did agree to cover  
the damage to the internal  parts of his home. Mr J hasnt said hes unhappy with how that 
was settled. So this complaint doesnt  look at the internal damage. It considers if L&G should  
pay for any damage to the external parts of Mr Js property that happened until his policy  
with it expired in mid-February 2016. 
Our investigator said there hadnt been storm conditions  in Mr Js area around the time of 
the loss in January 2016. So she didnt recommend L&G pay for the repairs. Mr J didnt 
accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making L&G pay 
Mr J any extra or do anything differently.
As our investigator said, our approach in storm cases is to ask three  questions:
was there a storm on or around  the date of loss?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?   and
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  yes to all three  questions  that we say the insurer  is liable to pay 
the claim.  But in this case the answer to the first question is no. 
Mr J seems to say the damage  to his roof was done  by a storm on 20 January 2016.  His 
policy doesnt define storm. As theres no definition Ive considered what  this service 
understands to be a storm. We generally  say it involves violent winds, usually accompanied 
by rain, hail or snow. 
Ref: DRN79020362Ive checked a weather report for where  the property is located. It doesnt  show what  Id 
consider to be storm conditions on, or in the 10 days before, 20 January 2016. It seems  then 
there wasnt a storm on or recently before Mr J is said to have  noticed  the damage. So I 
cant say the answer to the first question is yes. 
The invoice from the contractor who repaired the roof says tiles were blown off. I accept they 
may have  been.  But that doesnt automatically mean  they were blown off in storm conditions  
or that storm conditions  were the main  cause of that happening. As examples it could have 
been sub-storm level winds or tiles that were in poor condition  due to wear and tear. 
The repairs  to the sloping roof had already  been completed before the surveyor, whos  
report L&Gs  provided, inspected it. So he couldnt determine if there had been any storm 
damage. And I havent seen any photos of the damage before it was repaired. Mr J says 
these are available but havent  been considered. But he hasnt  provided  them  to this service. 
In any event I think its unlikely his photos would  make a difference. There doesnt  seem to 
have been storm  conditions when or recently  before Mr J thinks the damage  happened.   So I 
cant say any damage  probably was caused  by a storm. 
Mr Js unhappy the contractor that did the repair hasnt been  contacted.  They may be able to 
give some  more information about the actual damage to the roof. But Mr J needs  to first of 
all show there  were  storm conditions in his area. The expert weather reports  say there  
werent storm conditions. Its unlikely his contractor would be able to show that there were.
There has also been damage to Mr Js bay window roof. He says that too was storm. But he 
says that happened in June 2016. That was after his policy  with L&G expired. So, even if 
that damage was caused by a storm, it wouldnt be reasonable to make  it pay for the repair  
to the bay window. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Legal  & General Insurance  Limited pay Mr J 
any extra  or do anything  differently.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7902036