K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that CIS General  Insurance  Limited (CIS) voided her motor  insurance 
policy, that is has treated  it as of no effect from the outset.
background
In June 2017 Miss W took out a motor  insurance  policy with CIS through an online 
comparison website. She renewed the policy a year later.
In September  2018 Miss W was contacted by CIS. It had been told there  had been  a 
collision between her car and a third partys car. Miss W denied  any involvement. But in the 
course of CISs investigations it transpired  that, contrary  to what Miss W had said when 
applying for the policy, the keeper of the car as registered at DVLA  was not Miss W but her 
mother. 
CIS said that Miss W had misrepresented  this fact when she applied  for the policy.  If it had 
known the true facts it wouldnt have insured the car. It accepted that the misrepresentation 
was careless, rather than deliberate. Nevertheless  it wrote  to her on 3 October 2018 to say it 
was treating the insurance as void from its inception  date of 11 June 2017.  It said it would 
return the premiums she had paid but she had to arrange alternative insurance immediately.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  Miss W had said 
she genuinely thought she was named on the V5 document for the car as the registered  
keeper. However  the investigator had seen the questions Miss W was asked when she 
applied for the insurance online. The relevant question was clear  and explained what  was 
meant by registered  keeper.
The policy had since been renewed. Miss W was sent a schedule to check  which again said 
she was the registered keeper. But she failed to check and correct this. CIS had provided  its 
underwriting criteria to the investigator which confirmed it wouldnt have agreed to issue the 
policy if it had known  Miss W wasnt  the registered  keeper  of the car. It had voided  the policy 
and returned all the premiums, which the investigator thought  was fair.
Miss W thought she had been  dual insured for three days. The investigator thought this was 
unlikely because the policy was voided on 3 October 2018, two days  after CIS was told   
Miss W wasnt the registered keeper. And it had refunded all the premiums she had paid, so 
she hadnt suffered  any financial  loss.
Miss W also complained that CISs records and letters  referred to her car as the wrong 
model. The investigator said CIS had apologised for this and she was satisfied that the 
correct model had been insured at the time.
Miss W asked for her complaint to be reviewed. So it has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78563672CISs underwriting  criteria  show that it wouldnt have issued the policy  to Miss W if it had 
known she wasnt the registered keeper of the car. She was asked clear  questions about this 
when she applied for the policy but gave incorrect information. This information was 
presented to her when  she renewed the policy, but she failed to check  and correct it.
CIS was entitled to rely on the correctness of the information Miss W supplied.  As it wouldnt 
have issued the policy if it had known the true position, it was entitled, under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, to void the policy back  to when it was 
first taken out when  it discovered the true facts.  It has refunded  all the premiums Miss W has 
paid in accordance with that Act.
I sympathise with the position Miss W finds herself in. However I cant  reasonably  require 
CIS to continue a policy it wouldnt have issued  if Miss W had disclosed the true facts.
CIS issued  its letter voiding the policy on 3 October  2018, and made  it clear  she needed to 
arrange replacement  insurance immediately. It refunded  all her premiums. So I dont think  
any question of dual insurance arises.  CIS has also apologised for the mistake in its records  
about the model of her car. I dont require it to do anything  more in this respect.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against CIS General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7856367