K821x#15complaint
Mr N and Mrs H have complained Yorkshire  Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr N and Mrs H took out the PPI during a meeting at a branch of YBS at the same time that 
they took out their mortgage. They have  complained  that they were  told by YBS that Mrs H 
could not take out PPI alone,  so Mr N had to be included in the policy. The policy was 
arranged with a benefit split equally between Mr N and Mrs H.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr N and Mrs H disagreed with these findings.  They have commented that it was only Mrs H 
who had a need for PPI. In their view, the policy should have been arranged  in Mrs Hs 
name only, with the benefit covering only her share of the mortgage  repayments.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr N and Mrs Hs case.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr N and Mrs H say that they were  told that the PPI policy  
had to be in both of their names, but that only Mrs H had a need  for the cover.
At the time the policy was taken out, the YBS adviser completed  an Insurance Needs 
Form. With regard to PPI, this confirmed Mr N and Mrs Hs eligibility  for this cover.  The 
adviser recorded the recommendation  that they should both take out PPI cover. The adviser 
also wrote  that Mr N and Mrs H were aware of the implications if they couldnt  meet  
mortgage repayments due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
Clearly I cannot know for certain what exactly was said to Mr N and Mrs H when they took 
out the policy. I am also mindful that with the sale being over 20 years ago, it might not be 
possible for Mr N and Mrs H to recall all the detail of their discussions with YBS at this time. 
On balance, based on the documentation  completed in 1997, it seems  to me more  likely 
than not that Mr N and Mrs H did both accept at this time that they each had a need  for PPI 
cover. They  then agreed to take the policy out in both of their names.
YBS has described the sale as non-advised, whilst Mr N and Mrs H have said that it was 
advised. Bearing in mind  that the Insurance Needs Form contained a clear 
recommendation from YBS that Mr N and Mrs H should take out PPI, I consider  that this sale 
was advised. In these circumstances, YBS not only had to ensure that it provided clear, fair 
and not misleading information about  the PPI, but it also had to give suitable  advice.
Ref: DRN74407712Having looked  at Mr N and Mrs Hs circumstances when the policy was sold, my view is that 
it was suitable  for them  for the following reasons:
Mr N and Mrs H have confirmed the sick pay they say they were entitled  to from their 
employer. They also state that they had other  means to meet  mortgage  repayments in 
the event that they were not working.
The PPI policy would  have helped to pay the mortgage  repayments if either  Mr N or Mrs 
H had been unable to work due to disability or unemployment, and this would  have been  
in addition to any other  benefits  they received. I have thought carefully about Mr N and 
Mrs Hs comments  that it was only Mrs H who had a need for the PPI cover.  However, 
bearing in mind the importance of meeting mortgage repayments, and that Mr N was 
earning the higher salary at this time,  on balance  my view is that PPI provided  a useful 
benefit for them both if they were unable to work  because of disability or unemployment.
It could be argued  that the benefit  split under  the policy  should have allocated  a greater 
benefit to Mr N compared to Mrs H, as he had the higher salary when sold the policy. 
However, I note that the terms of the policy only allowed for the benefit to be split evenly 
where there were  two people insured under it. In addition, as Mrs H has made two 
successful claims  since  the policy came into force, it would appear that Mr N and Mrs H 
have benefited  by having the policy benefit split evenly between  them,  rather than Mr H 
having a greater share.
It seems  that both Mr N and Mrs H were eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been 
affected by any of the main things not covered  by the policy that might make it unsuitable 
for them;
The policy looks to have been affordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which YBS didnt give Mr N and Mrs H as much 
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable for them,  my view is that better  information would not have put Mr N and Mrs H 
off taking out the PPI.
This means  that YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N and Mrs H.
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N and Mrs H because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N and Mrs H about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
N and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr N and Mrs H have said about the sale of PPI, but these 
points dont change  my current view of this complaint. 
responses to my provisional  decision
YBS did not provide any substantive response  to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN74407713Mr N commented that in 1997,  he did not know about the obligations  that were applicable to 
businesses selling PPI. He says that he was not keen on taking PPI, but that the YBS 
representative persuaded him to do so. Mr N has also said that they were told Mrs H could 
not have the cover on her own. Mr N considers  that he did not benefit  from the policy 
because he was employed at all times. However, he says that Mrs H wanted her own policy 
because she was on a low salary,  and this is evident in the fact that she made two 
successful claims.
Mr N has commented that the only options  they were given were either to take one policy  
covering them both, or to have no policy at all. Because Mrs H was only entitled to 50% of 
the policy benefit when making a claim, Mr N considers  that they have lost out financially.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Mr Ns further  comments about the sale. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I cannot know for certain what discussions took place when Mr N and 
Mrs H were sold PPI. I appreciate that Mr N says he did not have a need for cover,  and that 
this is demonstrated  because he remained employed throughout the time that the policy  was 
in force.  However,  the fact that in hindsight  Mr N did not need to make a claim under the 
policy does not in my view mean that he had no need for the potential benefit  that it 
provided.
Looking at their respective salaries when sold PPI, as Mr N has highlighted, his salary was 
significantly higher  than Mrs Hs. In the circumstances, it seems to me that in order  to 
provide protection for the mortgage  payments,  it was reasonable to ensure  the PPI covered 
Mr N as well as Mrs H. Although  it may have been possible for cover  to have been in Mrs 
Hs name only, I consider  that looking at both Mr N and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time,  it 
was reasonable  for the adviser to recommend they both be covered by the policy.
I also do not consider  that I have sufficiently persuasive evidence to conclude  that Mr N was 
unfairly pressured into taking out PPI cover for himself under the policy.  I appreciate  that Mr 
N and Mrs H are likely to be disappointed  with my findings. However,  my conclusion  remains 
that the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N and Mrs H.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr N and Mrs H any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
John Swain
Ref: DRN74407714ombudsman
Ref: DRN7440771