K820x#14Complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) 
with Advantage  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  
Background
Mrs T entered into a HPA with Advantage Finance in September 2018.  
In October 2018, Mrs T said that the steering  started  to shake and she discovered 
the front tyres were  worn. She replaced the tyres but said that in January 2019,  the 
issue with the steering  returned. She contacted  the dealer and was promised a call 
back but this didnt happen  and she said it took her several attempts to be able to 
speak to anyone  about the issues.
Mrs T took the car for a diagnostics test in February  2019.  She sent the results to the 
dealer and it offered her £200  towards  the repairs. She then raised her complaint 
with Advantage  Finance. She was told to get another  quote for the work. Mrs T 
replaced the tyres and had the steering rack tightened so that she could drive  the 
car. A further inspection took place in March 2019 and she received a final response 
from Advantage Finance not upholding  her complaint. 
Advantage Finance said that the car passed  a MOT  a few days  before acquisition 
and that Mrs T didnt raise  any concerns with it until February  2019.  It contacted  the 
dealer and noted the dealer had made an offer towards the repairs.  It then offered to 
have an independent inspection carried out. This took place in March 2019.
Advantage Finance said that the inspection found that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and it didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Mrs T didnt agree  with Advantage  Finances  response and brought  her complaint to 
us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mrs T doesnt  agree. She no longer wants the car and wants  it to be collected.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons:
Mrs T acquired  a used car through a HPA with Advantage  Finance. Under  the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Advantage 
Finance can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors such ash the age and mileage 
of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account  all the 
circumstances. In this case the car was seven years old and had been driven over 
40,000 miles at the point of acquisition. Given this some  wear and tear would be 
expected.
Mrs T said that the steering started to shake around a month after acquisition  and 
that she noticed that tyres needed to be replaced.  Having issues  arise so soon after 
acquisition could  mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, however it depends on the nature of the issues and the other evidence 
available. In this case, Mrs T replaced  tyres and I havent  any further information to 
Ref: DRN70399432show the condition  of the tyres at that time. However, the car had passed an MOT  a 
few days before Mrs T acquired  it. Had the tyres not been road worthy this wouldnt 
have happened. I note the car failed the first MOT test in September  2018  but the 
issue noted didnt  relate to the tyres or the steering and so, as the car then passed 
the MOT,  I find it reasonable to accept it was road worthy and that the tyres were  of 
an acceptable quality  at the point  of acquisition.
Mrs T said that the steering issue seemed to be resolved following the change of the 
tyres but it then returned in January 2019. Although this wasnt  noted  in the MOT  
undertaken before acquisition, I find it reasonable that it was investigated further 
given when it first arose and that the change in tyres  hadnt resolved it. Mrs T was 
initially dealing with the dealer in regard to the issue but then raised  her complaint 
with Advantage  Finance. I think that Advantage Finance acted fairly by advising 
Mrs T of the offer made  by the dealer and her option to have an inspection  report  
carried out at its cost.
The independent inspection took place in March 2019. By this time the car had been 
driven over 53,000  miles so Mrs T had been  able to drive the car around 13,000 
miles since acquisition. 
The inspection report noted  issues  with the car but said these were age related and 
didnt suggest  the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. It noted that 
the car was overdue a service  and that the issues identified  would  have been  found 
in a routine service.  The report  states that the steering  was operating  as it should 
and, based on the information  the inspector had received,  the loose steering rack 
had developed after the point of supply.
Given the evidence  provided, I do not find that I have enough to say that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and so I do not require Advantage Finance to do 
anything further  in regard to these  issues.
Since the view was issued, Mrs T has said further issues  have  arisen and the gearbox needs 
replacing which she cant afford. This is a new issue and so hasnt  formed  part of my 
assessment. I appreciate  how upsetting  this experience has been  for Mrs T and can 
understand why she now no longer wants the car. While I do not uphold this complaint 
based on the evidence I have received, given the circumstances,  I would expect Advantage 
Finance to treat Mrs T positively and sympathetically  in regard to her HPA.  And, if Mrs T 
wishes to exit her HPA early, Advantage  Finance  should provide her with all the options  
available.
Mrs T also raised a complaint about  the service provided by the dealer in regard to the 
issues raised. As this service was provided  after the initial discussions regarding the HPA, I 
cannot hold Advantage Finance responsible  for this. 
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN70399433My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Advantage Finance  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7039943