K821x#15complaint
Ms Ws complaint is about the sale of an event cancellation insurance policy  sold by South 
Essex Insurance Brokers  Limited (SEIB). 
background
Ms W had arranged  cancellation insurance cover  for an annual event through  SEIB  for a 
number of years. SEIB is an independent  insurance broker. 
When Ms W applied for cover for the event  in 2018,  SEIB recommended  a policy  with a 
Lloyds underwriting  syndicate. As in previous years,  cover was arranged  for £15,000. 
However, after Ms W made a claim  following  cancellation of the event, the insurer  refused to 
pay the sum insured of £15,000.  It said that the insurance should have been taken out for 
the full cost of putting on the event,  which was £22,000. The policy contains a clause  which 
allows it to settle  the claim on a proportionate  or average basis,  according  to the premium 
paid. This meant that the claim was settled for around £10,500. 
Ms W is very unhappy  with this and says that she would  never  have made a claim for 
£22,000. The advance  set up costs of the event were £15,000 and the remaining costs 
(which included vets fees and prize  money among other things)  would only be incurred if the 
event went ahead. Those costs would never therefore have been claimed and so she didnt  
know that she would need insurance for this full amount; SEIB didnt advise  her about 
averaging clauses or that she should insure for amounts that would never have been  
claimed. 
Ms W says if shed  been advised properly, she would  have  gladly paid the additional 
premium required to cover £22,000. Ms W also says that when applying to take out cover for 
the same  event in 2019, she received the following advice from SEIB:
We require the attached proposal  form to be completed and returned.  Please note this 
should be done inline with the requirements  set out in The Insurance  Act 2015. To which I 
have attached a guide. Also the full costs and expenses of the event should be disclosed 
without any deductions  made for costs you would not incur etc. As soon as we have this 
form back we will start working on a quotation.
She says this advice  was not given when  taking out the cover for the event in 2018. She also 
points out that a previous  claim for cancellation made  in 2016, was paid out to the full 
£15,000.
SEIB says it advised  Ms W properly. It has made a number of points summarised below: 
Ms W has insured the same event for the same  sum insured - £15,000 -for a number 
of years.  
During the sales process,  they discussed  the two possible insurance options - 
either cover for gross lost revenue, or cover for lost costs & expenses. As previous 
years, Ms W opted for cover  for costs and expenses and when asked how much for 
she said £15,000  is what  we normally do.
The quote and proposal forms were provided  along with a letter  which reminded her 
of the duty of fair presentation under The Insurance Act 2015 and the ramifications of 
not adhering to this duty. 
Ref: DRN71002802Ms W responded with the proposal form signed and didnt raise any queries about 
the cover, or what this might mean.  
It wouldnt know the full details of the event and how it was paid for, it therefore  relied  
on Ms W to provide details under her duty of fair presentation. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that it be upheld, as she 
did not think that SEIB had done enough to explain what needed to be included in the sum 
insured figure or the effects of any averaging clause. The investigator  didnt  think  there was 
any reason to doubt that Ms W would have  taken cover for the full £22,000,  if shed 
understood this. The investigator therefore  recommended that SEIB  pay the balance  of the 
claim, less the additional premium that Ms W would have been  charged if she had been  
advised properly.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator said SEIB was acting as an agent of the insurer. This is not correct. SEIB is 
an independent broker, so in this transaction was acting  on behalf of Ms W. However, this 
distinction, while important, does not change  the outcome of the complaint. 
SEIB carried  out an advised  sale of insurance.  This means  SEIB recommended  this policy  
to Ms W. In doing so, it had certain  obligations and duties towards her. In this case, I 
consider that it needed to make clear  to Ms W that: 
it was her responsibility to decide  the sum insured; 
that the sum had to represent the full event  costs,  not just up front costs; and
that if she didnt  insure for the full cost, any claim settlement from the insurer might  
be reduced. 
I dont consider that SEIB did fulfil the last two of these obligations. 
SEIB has said that the policy document sets out what  will happen if an event is 
underinsured. I do not think its sufficient for a broker on an advised sale to expect the 
policyholder to be aware of the impact  of an average  clause just because its set out 
somewhere in the policy (page 5 in this case). 
The documents sent to Ms W by SEIB after cover was discussed also included  the following 
warning: 
Duty of Disclosure
Where we arrange insurance wholly  or mainly for purposes related to your trade, business or
profession, you have  a duty under The Insurance Act 2015 to make a fair representation of 
the risk. This means you must disclose every material circumstance which  you and/or your 
senior management and/or anyone responsible for arranging your insurance know  or ought  
to know. Alternatively,  you must  disclose  sufficient information which  would put the insurer 
on notice that it needs  to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those material  
circumstances. You are expected to carry out a reasonable search in order to make a fair 
presentation of the risk and will be deemed  to know what should reasonably have  been  
revealed by the search. Your duty of fair presentation applies at the start of the policy, at 
renewal and when  any variation of the policy is arranged. If you fail to make a fair 
Ref: DRN71002803presentation, the insurers may refuse to pay your claim  or reduce  the settlement amount, 
depending on the circumstances.
This is the only information  given to Ms W verbally or in writing that pertains to averaging 
and underinsurance.  I do not consider that this is clear enough to have alerted Ms W to the 
requirement to have asked for cover for the full event costs, not just the costs  that would be 
lost if the event were  cancelled in advance.  I also dont think  it is clear enough to properly 
inform a consumer  about the insurance principal  of averaging. 
Ms W was a commercial client but was still relying on SEIB for expert insurance advice and I 
do not consider  it reasonable  to expect a client to know  what their duty of fair 
representation without  a proper explanation.  No explanation was given over the phone  and 
no questions asked  of Ms W about how she reached the £15,000 figure  she gave. I consider 
that this should have  been discussed further,  given SEIB were advising Ms W on the policy. 
It seems  to me that Ms W considered she was properly asking for adequate  cover for any 
potential claim. If she had understood that she needed to also include costs of the day of the 
event, there  is no reason  to think she would not have paid the additional premium required. 
I therefore agree with the investigator  that SEIB should pay the difference  between the 
amount of the claim settlement  from the insurer and the sum insured, less the additional 
premium that she would have had to pay. I also think interest should be added at our usual 
rate from the date of the claim to the date of reimbursement.    
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require South Essex  Insurance Brokers Limited to pay the 
remainder of the sum insured  and the settlement already received, less the amount of the 
additional premium  that would  have  been charged by the underwriter, if cover  for the full 
amount had been taken out. Interest should be added to the sum due, to be paid at 8% 
simple per annum, from the date of the claim to the date of reimbursement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7100280