K822xcomplaint
F, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc made a mistake  providing it with 
access to online banking  meaning that it could  not view its account online and lost business.
background 
The director  of F tried to access online banking on 30 April 2018. He entered the wrong 
security information and the access was blocked.  He contacted  Santander. It accepts that it 
sent him new credentials that would not work with his existing online identification. This 
meant he had to call again. Santander  then also cancelled his existing online account details 
without telling him. He was not able to access his account again until 15 May 2018.  
The adjudicator did not recommend that Santander do more than it had now offered. After  
the complaint  had been referred  to this service it increased its offer of compensation from 
£150 to £250. He said that:
-F said that it received  payments  from clients in advance  of carrying  out work and 
checked its account online first to see that these were received. It could not do this 
and said it had lost business.
-F had claimed £1,500 for this but it had not provided any concrete evidence of a loss 
of business. It had provided  an email from a client dated 4 May 2018  asking  if the 
account was working  and saying that the client was considering placing its business 
elsewhere. But that client had made a payment to F in the following month so he did 
not think the business relationship was lost.
-He also thought F could have made  other arrangements to check its account. In one 
phone call with F, Santander said it could check credits at a cash machine.
-Although it was going to be more difficult to check the account he did not think that 
this had affected Fs business. He thought the amount  suggested for inconvenience  
was reasonable.
F did not agree.  It said that we had not taken  this seriously and had not reached a fair 
outcome.
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at Fs bank statements  during this period when it did not have access  to 
online banking. It continued to receive  credits  - with up to four a day. I have not seen 
evidence that it had to refund any of those   or to turn other  work  down.  I would reasonably 
expect it to have  taken action to mitigate any such loss. And as the adjudicator says one 
option would  have been to check the credits coming in  especially for any clients where 
there was not an established and trusted  relationship  using say a cash machine. 
I am not clear whether  F did make checks in this way or any other way during this period. I 
accept that this would have been inconvenient. There is no dispute about  the errors  made  by 
Santander. My understanding is that the account ought to have been  unlocked by 3 May 
2018 if Santander had followed the correct process. The adjudicators set out why that did 
not happen. And I note that Santander  said in its final response that it has passed  on 
feedback about the poor customer service  to those involved.
Ref: DRN74882262Santander has now offered compensation of £250.  I am using my own judgment to decide  
what is reasonable and take into account our published guidelines. F is a limited company so 
cannot suffer distress. As I said above  I have  not found there was a financial loss. I think that 
the amount offered is reasonable to reflect  the inconvenience caused by the errors and poor 
customer service.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc to pay F 
£250 as it has now offered  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7488226