K820x#14Complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays  Bank  plc wont refund  a number of payments made to a pre-
paid card account. She says she neither made  nor authorised those payments. 
Background
Miss M had a Barclays bank account,  which she operated in part by using the Barclays  
mobile app. The app can be used on both a mobile  phone and a tablet. 
Between November  2017 and January 2018 several  transfers  were  made  from Miss Ms 
Barclays account to a pre-paid card account, using a mobile phone  and a tablet. Those  
transfers totalled over £2,500. Further transfers were  made  in April 2018 in a similar manner; 
they totalled more than £2,200. 
Miss M says she didnt recognise  the payments in November 2017 and contacted Barclays  
to query  them.  She didnt  pursue that at the time,  but contacted the bank again  when  she 
saw the April 2018 payments. 
Barclays investigated what had happened, but concluded that Miss M had either made  the 
payments herself  or authorised someone else to do so. Miss M didnt accept the banks 
conclusions and referred the matter  to this service,  where one of our investigators  looked at 
it. 
Our investigator was however broadly in agreement  with the bank. He said,  in summary:
All the payments had been  made  using  Miss Ms mobile phone and a tablet linked to 
both her existing and previous mobile  phone  numbers. 
Miss M had made  other  payments to the same account, but hadnt disputed them. 
There were other transfers  between Miss Ms Barclays accounts, at around the same 
time as the disputed payments,  but Miss M hadnt initially said they were  fraudulent.  
Miss M had said she didnt have  a pre-paid card account,  but there were calls from her 
phone to Barclays discussing  payments to it. 
He had seen emails from Miss Ms email address to the pre-paid card provider and 
referring to the account.  
The investigator concluded that Miss M did have a pre-paid  card account and knew about 
the payments  made to it. Miss M didnt accept his conclusions, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review them.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons. 
Miss M says that she never had an account  with the pre-paid card provider. That provider  
has however demonstrated  that it had her details  on file; those details match  those that this 
service and Barclays has. In telephone calls from Miss Ms mobile phone  to Barclays,  there  
are references to the account; I share the investigators view that its more  likely than not that 
Miss M made those  calls. And there is an email from Miss Ms email  address suggesting her 
daughter had access to her card and so she (Miss M) needed a replacement.  Ill discuss 
later the relevance  of that statement, but its unlikely that someone who had been  using the 
Ref: DRN76176652card without authority  would make such a request. But I think  its fairly clear that Miss M did 
have an account  and card. 
Anyone setting  up payments to the card account  would  have needed Miss Ms debit card 
(not just the card details) and PIN. Setting up a new payee can only be done with the card 
and PIN sentry   the portable card reader  Barclays provides to its customers for online 
payments and other services. Miss M says she hasnt lost her card and that nobody else 
knows her PIN. So its most  likely  that she set up the card provider as a payee. Thats not 
consistent of course with her statement that she never had an account  with the pre-paid card 
account provider.  
So, if what Miss M says is correct  that she didnt have an account  and wasnt involved in 
the disputed transfers  someone else must have been able to:
open the pre-paid card account using her details;
intercept the account information  which  was sent to Miss M; 
access her mobile phone and tablet  on several  occasions over several months;  and 
access her Barclays account and use her card and PIN. 
I cant completely rule out that possibility, but I think its most unlikely. I think  it more likely  
that Miss M made the payments herself,  or knew  that someone else was doing so. 
On that final point, I note that Miss M suggested  that her daughter  might have had access  to 
her pre-paid  card account. But she didnt suggest that to Barclays;  she told Barclays  she 
didnt have such an account. In conclusion, therefore, I think it more likely than not that Miss 
M made the disputed  payments  herself  or allowed someone else to do so. At the very least,  I 
dont believe  shes given  Barclays or this service the full picture and in the circumstances  it 
wouldnt be fair to require the bank to refund the payments shes disputing.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss M to accept  or reject my decision before 3 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7617665