K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE is responsible for poor service in connection  
with his home emergency insurance.
background 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. Where the complaint is about a claim under 
an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing  with that claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance  company  but we dont name any other  parties.
Mr G had a home insurance policy with a section giving him home emergency cover. Great  
Lakes was the insurance company responsible for dealing  with home emergency claims. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes I include the home  assistance company and any others  for 
whose actions I hold Great  Lakes responsible.
Mr G was living with his partner and two young  children  (aged four and six). The water  
supply to his home  was shared with at least one other property. On 21 April 2019 Mr G 
called for urgent help with a water  leak. So he was making a claim under the home 
emergency cover.
Great Lakes referred  him to his home  insurer to trace and access the source of the leak. 
Great Lakes didnt complete an emergency repair until 9 May. For much of that time Mr G 
and his family had interruptions  to their water supply. After the repair  they had problems with 
water supply to the bathroom.
In two separate final response letters, Great Lakes offered Mr G £80.00  and £150.00.
Unhappy with that response, Mr G brought his complaint  to us on about 22 May 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought that:
Great Lakes unnecessarily delayed the claim.
Great Lakes couldve mitigated the impact  on Mr Gs neighbours. Mr G had been left 
to face difficult encounters with them.
Mr G and his family had been without a fully functioning bathroom and water supply 
for over a month.
Great Lakes incorrectly advised that Mr G required  trace  & access  before any repair. 
This resulted  in Mr G having to claim under his home insurance policy,  which  
required an excess, and will likely impact future premiums.
The investigator recommended  that Great Lakes should:
Ref: DRN777360621.pay - in addition to the award of £230.00  - an additional payment of £770.00  bringing  
the total award in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to £1,000.00; and
2.establish what Mr G was required to pay for his excess, and refund this to him; and
3.award 8% simple interest on the refund from the date it was paid to the date it is 
refunded to him.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to Great Lakes  on 5 May 2020. I summarise my findings:
I was minded to find £500.00 fair and reasonable compensation for the 
inconvenience and distress caused to Mr G by the delay for which  I held Great Lakes 
responsible.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from Great Lakes, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to pay Mr G (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £500.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Great Lakes had no further comments on the provisional decision.
Mr G disagreed with the provisional decision. He says,  in summary, that:
He has sent us some further photographs and documents.
Although it was unnecessary, he made  a claim for the trace to be conducted and 
therefore incurred  a £250.00  excess charge which  Great  Lakes should reimburse. 
The offer of a hotel  accommodation was declined for several reasons.
The works caused silt/stones in the water system and problems regarding  the 
bathroom. A small pea-sized  stone and silt fell from the pipe.
Great Lakes refused to rectify the shower  problem and leave it to a finished standard. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The home emergency policy covered repairing a leak. 
From the recording of the first call, Mr G didnt know where the leak was coming from. So I 
dont find it unreasonable that Great Lakes suggested that he should contact his home  
insurer for trace and access. I find that it was 23 April before Mr G told Great Lakes that the 
leak was coming from underneath his utility  room floor.
One of the final response letters included the following:
Ref: DRN77736063after reviewing the terms and conditions of the policy, I can confirm  your claim was 
incorrectly declined, while trace is not covered under the policy, access  is. 
I apologise  for the inconvenience this caused
I find that this mistake caused delay.
I have now seen evidence  that Mr G had to pay a £250.00 excess. But his claim was 
described as being  for escape  of water and damage to his utility room.  So I dont accept that 
the excess was just for tracing the leak. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Great 
Lakes to pay compensation  for that excess.
Great Lakes offered alternative  accommodation  for Mr G and his family. But - for various 
reasons - they couldnt  leave their home.  So Mr G was at home  with an intermittent supply 
and neighbour problems  until Great Lakes  completed the repair  on 9 May. 
On 10 May Mr G reported some remaining issues.  In particular there was some debris in the 
cold water  pipes. This interfered with the facilities in the main bathroom.  Mr G holds Great 
Lakes responsible for this. And Ive looked  carefully at his photographs. 
But I havent seen  enough technical  evidence to show that Great  Lakes was responsible  for 
causing the debris in the water.
From what  Ive seen, Great Lakes sent other  contractors to attend to the remaining issues 
later in May insofar as Mr G made  access. From what he has said, he did not agree to make 
access for work to the shower.
Overall I find £500.00 fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience and distress 
caused to Mr G by the delay for which I hold Great Lakes responsible.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct  Great  Lakes  Insurance SE to pay Mr G (insofar  as it hasnt already paid him) £500.00 
for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7773606