K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) provided poor service in the way it 
refunded payments made for the premium  on his motor insurance policy.  Mr C is 
represented by Mrs C.
background
UKI cancelled Mr Cs policy in October 2015. It told him it had refunded  four payments - 
totalling over £900  to the three cards that were used to make them. Mr C said the cards  
were no longer active and that he didnt know who the card providers  were.  So he wasnt 
able to trace  the money. He thinks UKI should  pay the refunded  sum to him now by cheque. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Cs complaint. He noted that UKI wasnt able to send  a 
cheque to Mr C as it hadnt received back any of the money it had refunded  to the card 
suppliers. He thought it was reasonable that UKI had followed its usual process by refunding 
money to the cards  used to pay the premium. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Two refunds were made to one card held in Mr Cs name  and a third refund was made  to a 
second card held in his name. The fourth refund  was made  to a card held by another  person. 
I think the third card that was used may have been held by Mrs C, although it isnt possible 
to say for sure based on the details we have. But Mr C must know  whose card it was. 
UKI says its usual practice is to refund money  to the original card it came from, in order to 
avoid potential fraud. I think thats a valid reason - and its standard practice for many  
businesses. So I cant say it was wrong for UKI to act as it did. As the refunds havent been 
returned to UKI, I dont  think it can be expected  to pay Mr C by cheque now.  
UKI has provided as much detail as its able to give about the businesses the refunds were 
made to. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to say that Mr C should be able to contact  
them directly  about the sums owed to him.
In my opinion, it was reasonable for UKI to assume  that - as three of the payments were 
made using  Mr Cs cards - he would know which cards and suppliers were involved.  I think  
its also fair to say that Mr C must know who made the other card payment.  UKI paid the 
refunds within  days of the cancellation. So I think its more likely  than not that the cards had 
been in use fairly recently. I think its fair to say that most consumers keep details of 
previously-used cards   such as monthly statements - if only for reference purposes.  It isnt 
clear why Mr C appears to have no records to assist him in identifying  the relevant card 
suppliers. But I cant  see what else UKI could have done to help him with that.
I dont think UKI acted unreasonably  in providing the refunds in the way it did. And I think  it 
tried to assist Mr C by providing  details  of the relevant  cards. Im not able to uphold his 
complaint, but if Mr C has concerns about  the way UKI runs its business, its open to him to 
contact the industry  regulator, which is the Financial  Conduct Authority.     
Ref: DRN73288892my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7328889