K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2010. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  Bank of Scotland  made  it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. He ticked a box and signed on the credit agreement  specifically to 
indicate he wanted  it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems  to have had a need  for the cover   because  he was only entitled  to 
a small amount of sick pay and no other  way to keep  up with his repayments  if he 
couldnt work.  
Its possible  the information Bank  of Scotland gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about  that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ref: DRN73121272But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7312127