K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  Mr P completed  an 
application form for a Barclaycard in one of the banks branches and the policy  was added  to 
his card at the same  time.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr Ps main complaint is that PPI wasnt ever properly explained to him and it wasnt 
something he wanted or needed as he had other  ways to pay his credit card if he wasnt 
working. Hes asked  for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. 
I can understand why Mr P mightve  forgotten exactly what  happened when he took out his 
credit card with PPI as this was a long time ago. But I think Barclays  made Mr P aware that 
the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. Theres an x marked  in the box to have  
PPI on the form Mr P signed.  So, I think its likely  he decided at the time that PPI would be 
useful and he decided  to apply for it to be added to his Barclaycard.  
Barclays says it advised Mr P to take out PPI and it looks  to me as if it was suitable for him. 
Mr P was eligible for the PPI cover and he doesnt  appear to have had significant other 
means to make his Barclaycard repayments if he couldnt work. He had less than 3 months 
sick pay from his employer. And although  he mentioned  having  family to rely on, hoping  
someone else can help in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out 
PPI. I dont know if Mr P wouldve always been  able to rely on family  help if he couldnt work 
and he needed  financial support. The policy wouldve  protected  his card repayments for up 
to 12 months in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. So I think  PPI provided 
Mr P with a useful benefit in his particular circumstances.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if that affected Mr P. 
So I dont  think that having more information  about what  wasnt  covered under the policy  
wouldve put him off taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Barclays  gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr P chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems 
to have wanted it at the time,  even  if hes forgotten this now. The policy seems to have been 
affordable for him  and he couldve  cancelled  it at any time if his circumstances changed  or 
he didnt want to pay for it.
Ref: DRN79590072Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr P wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7959007