K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way in which Aviva Insurance Limited  have dealt with his water 
damage claim, under his landlords Commercial Property Owners  policy. 
background
The claim dates back to January 2017.  Back then, Mr S informed Aviva that he had been 
contacting the landlord regularly regarding a leak from the flats above his. Mr S believed  that 
the overflow pipe had been leaking. He had damp in some of his rooms.  Aviva undertook  
trace and access works to try and locate the actual  source of the leak and the claim was 
subsequently accepted.  We issued  a final decision in relation to this claim/complaint in 
November 2017.   
Mr S contacted Aviva and this service in 2018 because damp had reappeared, shortly after 
he had used his shower. But Aviva  said it wasnt covering  this latest  issue. It had appointed 
a leak detection company which found  that a leak was occurring from a waste pipe located 
under the bathroom. Aviva believes that these tests have identified  a sub-standard 
installation to the shower (wet room). The insurance policy doesnt cover faulty 
workmanship. Aviva  explained that the shower  enclosure does  not contain a shower tray, 
which means that water from the shower  is channelled into the waste  pipe and this is 
leaking. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with her findings, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I wont  
be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Typically, wet rooms are designed and installed so that any free water,  from a shower not 
fully enclosed in a shower cubicle, safely drains  away. The video of the room  that Mr S 
supplied does show a shower that is not fully enclosed in a cubicle and which  has a small 
drain in the floor. 
But with Mr S wet room, it appears  that the water is not safely draining away. The leak 
detection company carried out a thermal inspection of the area. It detected signs  of water 
under the floor and as the shower was left running, the thermal  imaging picture of the floor 
was growing. The water escaping  is not the cause of the wet room problems  it is the result. 
Given this, I believe it wasnt unreasonable of Aviva  to decline to deal with this latest issue. 
Im persuaded that its more likely than not that the problems with the wet room are due to 
the manner of its installation, rather than any of the insured  events that are covered  by the 
policy. 
Aviva doesnt need to carry out any further trace  and access works to locate the actual 
source of the leak, because the thermal imaging tests have identified  its location.  And trace 
and access only comes  into effect  when the damage  is insured under  the policy.  In this 
instance, it isnt because faulty workmanship is a policy exception.  So accessing and fixing  
the leak will be Mr S responsibility. Yet where Aviva  has carried out trace and access  on 
Ref: DRN71683362previous claims,  which it accepted, it will need  to carry out any subsequent reinstatement 
works once  the leak is fixed (for example, the flooring works).  
Mr S got in touch with us recently to let us that he has just returned  after being  abroad and 
within a few days of being back and using  the toilet, dishwasher and sink, damp  has 
returned. He said he hadnt used the shower.  Mr S sent us a photo showing the damp.  
Ive taken this information  into account,  but Im not persuaded it overrides the findings of the 
leak detection  company.  And its not enough  for me to overturn Avivas decision on Mr S 
claim/complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva  Insurance  Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019. 
Paul Phillips
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7168336