K822xcomplaint
V, a company  acting via its principal director  (the director), has complained that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (the bank) maladministered  a money  transfer abroad  of £4,000 which  caused 
considerable worry, inconvenience  and financial  loss. 
background 
The beneficiary of the payment was another company which  the director has described as a 
subsidiary. The director says that a major  part of the losses was suffered by the subsidiary.  
Our adjudicator concluded the bank  had maladministered the payment  and that if the 
maladministration hadnt  happened the payment would have succeeded. 
The bank had already accepted a degree  of responsibility and paid V £150 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to the company. The adjudicator recommended  the bank should 
pay £200 more  compensation, which the bank has agreed to do.
The adjudicator said the bank wasnt responsible for compensating the director in an 
individual capacity.  But the director said that the effect the banks  actions had on him 
represented a loss to V. 
V hasnt  accepted the adjudicators conclusions. It says the bank  hasnt offered enough 
compensation. V says that further compensation of £4,000 is due for worry, inconvenience 
and financial  loss.
The adjudicator asked V via the director to provide  evidence to support the companys claim 
for further  compensation. The director provided evidence,  but this didnt persuade  the 
adjudicator to recommend that the bank should  pay more.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint V but I too have 
concluded the bank need pay no more compensation in this case than it has already paid or 
agreed to pay.
I confirm its the case that under the rules of the ombudsman service the bank cant be 
required to compensate the director,  either  directly, or indirectly via V. 
Having looked  at the evidence, Ive not been persuaded that V suffered a financial loss as a 
result of what happened with the payment. Its not enough to show  that the company had to 
devote its time and attention to the question of the payment. It would  also need to be shown 
 ie demonstrated via evidence  that the company had actually lost money as a result.  That 
hasnt been shown by the evidence the director has provided.
In terms of the subsidiary, the director has said it lost money and was chased for payment by 
its landlord because  the payment was delayed.  However, this complaint is being  brought by 
V. The bank isnt responsible for compensating third parties, including  the subsidiary, in a 
complaint brought by V.
Ref: DRN72619502But even if that were not so, the evidence  the director has provided hasnt persuaded me it 
would be fair to hold the bank responsible for the financial losses he says the subsidiary 
suffered. Ive seen  no evidence that employees stopped working for the subsidiary or that 
new employees have  had to be trained. Nor have I seen any evidence of a loss of goodwill. 
Added to this is the fact that in his original letter to us the director said he arranged  
emergency funds  on two occasions  when  the payment didnt arrive. 
Im satisfied V suffered inconvenience  when  the payment wasnt  handled correctly,  and for 
that Ive concluded a total of £350  as offered by the bank is fair compensation. 
my final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay V an additional  £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7261950