K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Castle Trust Capital PLC (Capital  Trust)  gave him a mortgage product 
for which he didnt apply. He wants the original product for which  hed applied.
background
Mr K through a broker  applied for a buy to let equity  loan from Castle Trust in 2014. He said 
that Castle Trust changed the loan to an index linked profit share mortgage without his 
knowledge or consent. Mr K said that he found out in 2018 when he wanted to discuss 
repayment. Mr K believed that the repayment figure  should be based on the value of his 
property, not to a house price index, and he shouldve  been made aware  of the change. 
Mr K said that his broker said that it didnt know about the change either.
Mr K complained to Castle  Trust. It said that Mr K applied for a buy to let equity  loan, but the 
product was changed to an index profit share  mortgage before the original product was put 
in place. It was unable to find out why, but noted that Mr Ks broker had been informed and 
that Mr K signed documents, including a mortgage  deed, for the index profit share mortgage. 
Castle Trust said that some of these documents set out in detail how the mortgage  would be 
repaid and the link to the house price index, and Mr K had been advised  by a solicitor.  It also 
pointed out that Mr K had been sent letters and annual statements about  the mortgage  once 
it was in place  which also told him that the mortgage was linked to a house price  index.
Mr K complained to us, saying that hed mistakenly  signed the forms believing that hed been  
offered the product for which hed applied. The adjudicators view was that the loan 
agreement signed  by Mr K repeatedly sets out the terms  of the mortgage  and that its an 
index profit share mortgage. He said that it was Mr Ks responsibility (and that of his broker) 
to check the agreement  a lender could  set the terms of a loan,  but the consumer didnt 
have to accept  them. The adjudicator said that the loan agreement set out clearly  the terms 
of the loan and Mr K signed to say that he accepted them. He didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr K disagreed. He said that the illustration  he received before taking out the mortgage was 
for a profit share mortgage and it wasnt made clear enough to him that the mortgage  he was 
offered was an index  profit share mortgage.  Mr K felt the change  was in Castle  Trusts 
favour. Mr K also pointed out that Castle Trust was saying that the mortgage was only for 
five years,  but he thought  it was a nine year term.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following a review of this complaint and the evidence available,  I obtained further  evidence  
from Castle Trust and Mr Ks broker. Having reviewed all the evidence,  its clear that Mr K 
applied for a nine year buy to let equity share mortgage. He was offered a five year equity 
share mortgage, but it was linked to a house price index. There  is no explanation in the 
documents that existed at the time from either the broker or Castle  Trust as to why the term 
was shortened. The key facts  illustration for the product offered is absent, but lenders are 
able to offer a mortgage on different terms to that applied  for, provided what has been 
offered was made clear to the customer.  Businesses  have  a duty not to mislead.
Ref: DRN74361702In Mr Ks case, its clear  from the documents given to him before he took out the mortgage 
that he was being offered a five year index profit share mortgage. The length and type of the 
mortgage product  is repeated often within the documents he was given. Mr K says that he 
didnt read the documents properly;  that was his choice but its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to expect  a customer and his broker to read the offer documents carefully.  And I note 
Mr K was legally advised and given a copy of the documents  after he signed them.  The 
solicitor even signed a certificate of title confirming  the terms of the mortgage.
Its also relevant for me to note that from 2014 onwards, Mr K was sent letters and yearly 
statements that confirmed  the index linked  nature  of the mortgage  and its length. He never 
challenged their contents until recently.  The documents appear to be correctly addressed so 
its more likely than not that they were received.
In all the circumstances, and having  looked  at the evidence available to me, I cant say that 
Castle Trust has acted unfairly  or unreasonably. It set out the terms on which it was willing to 
lend to Mr K clearly, Mr K accepted those  terms, and didnt  challenge the many letters and 
statements confirming to him the terms of the mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
21 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7436170