K822xcomplaint
Miss L is unhappy with the home  emergency insurance policy she bought from Dynamo 
Cover Limited trading  as HomeRescue.co (Dynamo). 
background 
Miss L purchased home emergency cover  from Dynamo in February 2018. 
In April 2018 Miss Ls boiler  started  leaking and she called Dynamo  to make a claim.  The 
claim was declined. Miss L was told this was because the leak was linked to a maintenance 
issue rather than an emergency.  
Unhappy with this, Miss L complained to Dynamo. She thinks  the leak was an emergency  
and feels it wasnt made  clear when she purchased the policy  that leaks wouldnt  be 
covered. 
Miss L also complained  she had difficulties communicating with Dynamo when trying to 
make the claim. She says Dynamo were initially unable to locate her details and that this 
caused delays  and inconvenience,  as she had to contact them a number of times to follow 
up. 
Lastly, Miss L says she asked for her policy to be cancelled but that this wasnt  actioned. 
Dynamo didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint.  They accepted  there were  initial  problems locating 
Miss Ls policy, but said these were  due to Miss L calling  the wrong helpline number to make 
the claim.  Dynamo  also said they dont offer compensation for anything outside  of the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
As she was unhappy  with this response, Miss L brought her complaint to our service where it 
was looked into by an investigator. 
The investigator felt the policy hadnt  been mis-sold to Miss L, and that Dynamo had given 
Miss L clear information about what the policy covered and how to make a claim.  The 
investigator explained she couldnt look at whether  she thought the claim had been  declined 
correctly as part of this complaint against  Dynamo. This was because the decision to decline 
the claim was made by the insurer, not by Dynamo. 
The investigator highlighted  to Dynamo that Miss L had asked  for the policy to be cancelled 
in an email dated 4 June  2018 but that this hadnt been actioned.
Dynamo pointed  out that the terms and conditions say that premiums wont be refunded if 
the policy is cancelled  after the 14 day cooling-off period. They said Miss L was outside of 
that, and that there was also a cancellation fee due. So to cancel her policy  at that point in 
time, Miss L would need to pay a total of £76.78. 
But Dynamo also acknowledged that they hadnt responded to Miss Ls request to cancel in 
June. So in recognition of this, they offered to reduce  the amount she owed to £14.79 and 
cancel the policy.  
Our investigator felt this offer was fair, but Miss L disagreed. So the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
Ref: DRN77130972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I believe Dynamos offer 
is fair and Ill explain  why below. 
communication with Dynamo
Miss L has said she had to make a number of calls and emails in order  to register her claim,  
and that she was passed to a number of different people. Shes also said she was promised 
call backs which were never returned.  
To make a claim  under  this insurance  cover, Miss L needed to call a specific telephone  
number. This number was included in her policy wording as well as on her policy  schedule.  
Dynamo have provided a copy  of an email they say was sent to Miss L a few weeks after 
she purchased the policy.  The email includes updated policy wording  and also says Please 
ensure that in the event  of a claim that you please call the emergency number detailed in 
your policy wording which is: 0333  137 4145  this telephone line is open 24/7 365 days  a 
year. I think this email makes it clear  what  number Miss L would need to call in the event of 
a claim.  
 
Dynamo has explained that the reason Miss L had problems  making  a claim when  she first 
called them was because  she called  the incorrect telephone number. As a result,  the team  
she called  werent  able to locate her policy. But that when she called again the next day, she 
was given the correct number and that after this, a claim was registered for her. 
I havent been provided with copies of these calls.  But Ive seen  a copy of the email  Miss L 
sent Dynamo when  she first tried to claim. In this email, Miss L says shes tried calling 
0330 223 2897  which isnt the number for claims referred to above or in the policy wording.
So while I appreciate Miss L will have had some trouble trying to make a claim, I havent  
seen anything to say this was due to an error by Dynamo.
Miss L has said she believes her policy number was changed and that this contributed  to 
Dynamo being unable to locate her details. But from what Ive seen, her policy number has 
remained the same from when she first took out the policy. So I dont  think there was an 
error here. 
the sale of the policy  
The decision  to accept  or decline Miss Ls claim  for her boiler  leak was made by her insurer,  
not by Dynamo.  So I wont be considering here whether the decision to decline the claim 
was correct or not.
But I am able to consider how Dynamo  sold the policy. Miss L has said it wasnt  made clear  
to her that a boiler leak wouldnt be covered when she took out the policy. So Ive considered  
whether the policy  was mis-sold to her on that basis. Id expect Dynamo  to have provided 
Miss L with enough clear,  fair and not misleading  information for her to make an informed 
choice about whether  to buy it or not. 
Ref: DRN77130973I can see that the terms and conditions of the policy would've been sent to Miss L shortly  
after she purchased  it. It would be for Miss L to read these and ensure she understood them.  
She was also able to cancel  the policy for free within  the 14 day cooling-off period. 
The policy terms clearly set out what is and isnt covered.  I think  its clear from the terms and 
conditions that the policy is designed for emergencies and doesnt cover maintenance work. 
I know Miss Ls claim was declined as the leak was considered to be a maintenance issue. 
And while I cant say if it was declined correctly, I can say that I think  the terms of the policy 
are clear. So I dont think Miss L was given incorrect information about what she would and 
wouldnt be covered  for when she bought  the policy. And I cant  say it was mis-sold to her. 
policy cancellation 
Miss L would  like the policy cancelled and its clear  she asked for this in her email from 
June 2018. The policy terms clearly state  there will be no refund of premiums  if the policy is 
cancelled after the 14 day cooling-off period. So I think Miss L is under an obligation to pay 
the remainder of the years premiums if she wants to cancel the policy early, along  with a 
£6.99 cancellation fee which the policy outlines. 
However Dynamo have  said theyre  willing to reduce what  Miss L would have to pay to 
cancel early, to £14.79.  I think  this is a fair offer. I say this because I think it recognises that 
Dynamo didnt respond to her cancellation  request in the first instance.  
Miss L would  like to be compensated for the time shes  spent on the claim and making  a 
complaint. Whilst I can appreciate it must  be frustrating to have to complain, unfortunately 
sometimes things do go wrong. But just because someone has made a complaint, or 
referred their complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  this doesnt mean theyre due 
compensation. I feel Dynamos offer is fair in Miss Ls circumstances. So Im not asking them 
to do anything further.
my final decision
As explained above, I believe  the offer made  on 24 August  2018  by Dynamo Cover Limited 
trading as HomeRescue.co is fair. So I think Miss L should only be charged £14.79 to cancel 
her policy early. 
I understand Miss L pays monthly for her policy and that this monthly subscription has 
continued as the policy is still active. 
If Miss L still wishes  to cancel her policy, Dynamo  Cover Limited trading as HomeRescue.co  
should refund her any money above £14.79  that shes been charged  since 24 August 2018. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7713097