K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds  Bank General Insurance Limited has only paid part of his claim made 
when his gym locker  was broken into. 
background
Mr M has his home insurance  with Lloyds. Under the terms of his policy  personal belongings 
and money are covered away from his home subject to certain terms and conditions.
In January 2019 Mr M went  to his usual gym and placed his belongings in a locker. When he 
returned he couldnt find his watch.  Thinking  he may have left it in his car, he checked only 
to discover money,  about £300,  was also missing. Hed kept this money in a clip under one 
of the seats.  
Mr M made a claim to Lloyds for his stolen  belongings. Lloyds initially  treated the incident as 
two separate claims and agreed to settle the claim for the stolen watch. But it declined to 
cover the claim for the stolen money  as it said the car hadnt  been broken into using force 
and violence  and the money  hadnt  been kept in the glove  box or locked boot as required 
under the terms  of the policy. Mr M complained about the claim being  treated as two claims  
and about the decline. Lloyds stood by its decision to decline the claim but agreed it 
shouldnt have treated the matter as two claims,  rerecorded that and paid him £25 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Not happy with the decision to decline the claim, Mr M asked  us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator concluded the complaint should  be upheld and Lloyds reconsider the 
complaint. She found that force and violence  wasnt  required to enter the car as the thief had 
access to the car keys.  And she didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the condition  
about keeping  personal belongings in the glove box or locked  boot as the money being kept 
under the seat hadnt been material to the theft;  the thief had access  to the entire car. In 
reaching this conclusion she referred Lloyds to the regulations found in ICOBS  8 and the 
declination of claims.  
Lloyds didnt agree. It maintains that the theft isnt covered under the terms of the policy and 
it doesnt believe the provisions of ICOBS  8 are relevant.  So the matter has been referred to 
me for review and determination.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Mr Ms home  insurance policy does cover  personal  belongings and money if stolen away  
from home. But that is subject to certain conditions within the policy.  It says, under  Section 3, 
that:
What is covered

2. Your money up to £750
Where they are covered
Ref: DRN717752121.Anywhere in the work  in your custody  or control.
But the most we will pay for any one claim caused by theft or attempted  theft from 
an unattended motor vehicle is £1,000.
What are they covered against

Or loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from unattended  motor  vehicles  
in a locked covered boot or glove  compartment  and there is evidence  that forcible 
and violent entry took place. 
Lloyds has accepted the claim Mr M made  for his watch. So it accepts his gym locker was 
broken into. That meant the thief had access to Mr Ms car keys; and his car was parked 
outside the gym. 
Mr M says he kept about £300 in a money clip under  the seat in the car  he didnt take this 
into the gym as lockers  had been  broken into previously. When  he searched his car for his 
watch he found the money  had also been  stolen. 
I accept the policy sets out that loss or damaged caused by theft from an unattended motor  
vehicle will only be covered in certain circumstances. I also accept this is quite  a common  
term found in home insurance policies. But I need  to consider whether Lloyds has applied  its 
terms fairly.  
The thief had access to Mr Ms car keys. This meant  the thief didnt need  to use any other 
means to gain entry to the car. It seems  to me that the intention  of the underwriter  when 
setting terms that require forcible and violent entry are to exclude  situations where  items  are 
stolen due negligence of the policyholder, or some such other reasons, for example by 
leaving property or a vehicle unlocked. I dont  believe it was fairly intended to cover  
situations where a thief has gained possession of the actual  keys needed to unlock the car. 
Im therefore  not persuaded Lloyds  is applying its terms fairly in relying  on the requirement 
for forcible  and violent  entry  in this case.
I turn now to where  the money was kept.  Again  I accept  the policy terms set out the 
requirement for items  to be kept in a locked covered boot or glove compartment. I also 
accept the reasons given by Lloyds for including such terms  that by locking items  away 
they arent on view and so that acts as a deterrent  for thieves and reduces the risk. 
However, I dont agree  with its view that ICOBS 8 has no relevance to the application of 
these terms.
ICOBS 8.1.1 says
An insurer must:
(3) not unreasonably reject  a claim (including terminating or avoiding  a policy); 
And under Cases where rejection of a consumers  claim is unreasonable: contracts on or 
after 1 August 2017, ICOBS 8.1.2A says:
(2) The Insurance Act 2015 sets out a number of situations in which  an insurer may 
have no obligation  to pay. For example:
Ref: DRN71775213(a)Section 10 provides  situations in which an insurer has no liability  under  a 
policy due to a breach  of warranty
(b)Section 11 places restrictions on an insurers ability to reject  a claim for 
breach of a term where compliance is aimed  at reducing certain types of 
risk; and
(c)Sections 12 and 13 provide for the extent to which a firm is entitled to 
reject fraudulent claims.
It seems  to me the terms Lloyds is seeking to rely on fall squarely with (2) (b) above  the 
requirement to place items in a locked covered boot or glove compartment is specifically 
aimed at reducing  the risk of theft. 
Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015  says:
(1)This section applies  to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance, 
other than a term defining  the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to 
reduce the risk of one or more of the following-
(a)loss of a particular kind,
(b)loss at a particular location,
(c)loss at a particular time.
(2)If a loss occurs, and the term has not been  complied with, the insurer may not 
rely on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability  under the 
contract for the loss is the insured  satisfies subsection (3).
(3)The insured  satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the 
term could not have increase the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the 
circumstances in which it occurred.  
(4)The section may apply in addition to section 10.
Im required  to take account of the law, and regulatory rules, when reaching fair and 
reasonable decisions and so its right that I take account of both ICOBS and the Insurance  
Act 2015 when reaching my decision.  
Putting aside that I highly  doubt cash hidden under a seat would be on view to a prospective 
thief looking through the windows, the thief had possession  of the actual keys required to 
gain entry to the car. So it wasnt the fact the money  was on view (and I have said it likely  
wasnt) that resulted in the theft but that the thief had access to the car keys. So even  if Mr M 
had complied with the terms and kept the money in the covered and locked boot or the glove 
box, the theft would  still have occurred.   Im  therefore not persuaded Mr Ms non-compliance 
with those terms increased the risk of the loss occurring in the particular  circumstances of 
this case. In accordance with the Act Lloyds  is unable  to exclude or limit its liability under the 
policy. I see no reason to depart from the law here and as such Im not persuaded Lloyds 
has applied  it terms fairly  when considering this part of Mr Ms claim.  
How Lloyds Bank General Insurance need to put this right
As I have found Lloyds  has relied  on the aforementioned terms to decline part of Mr Ms 
claim, I require it to:
Pay Mr Ms claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN71775214If Lloyds thinks its legally  required  to deduct income  tax from any interest,  it must send a tax 
deduction certificate to Mr M if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Lloyds Bank  General 
Insurance Limited to compensate Mr M in accordance with what I have set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7177521