K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited wont  allow him to 
increase the cover on his life assurance  policy.
background
Mr V took out a life assurance policy  in 2008.  In 2016 Mr V took out an increased mortgage 
and got a quote from Royal London  to increase the cover on his policy  to match  the 
increased mortgage.
Mr V didnt increase  his cover at the time,  but now wants to. Royal  London has said he cant 
now increase his cover as it could only be increased within  one month of him taking the 
increased mortgage. Mr V says this term wasnt made clear  to him
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as he felt Royal London  did make the term clear 
to Mr V. Mr V disagreed and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Royal London  made the term clear to Mr V and that its acted 
reasonably in not now allowing him to increase his cover. Ill explain why below.
Royal London has sent us a copy of its letter to Mr V from 2016. This says that cover  can be 
increased using  the Guaranteed Insurability Option in his policy,  but that it can only be 
increased if the option is used within one month of his increased borrowing.
Royal London has also sent us a copy of the terms of Mr Vs policy. The section on the 
Guaranteed Insurability Option says the cover can be increased  if the person covered  takes  
out a larger  mortgage. But it also says the cover can only be increased if the option is taken 
up within one month of the event.
Mr V has said theres no definition of the event in the policy so the term isnt clear.  And I 
agree theres no definition  of the event  in the terms.  But I think its clear  from reading the 
section that the event  refers to the taking  out of a larger mortgage. And, even if it isnt 
clear, Royal Londons  letter  to Mr V from 2016  did make it clear  that cover could only be 
increased within one month of the increased  borrowing.
So I think Royal London did make  this term clear to Mr V. And so I think  it has acted 
reasonably in applying the term and not now allowing  Mr V to now increase his cover.
Ref: DRN75064762my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  by 4 December 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7506476