K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc (which Ill refer to as Tesco Bank) held him 
liable for credit card transactions that he says he neither  made nor authorised.   
background
Mr S had a Tesco Bank credit card. His wife had a second card on the same account; the 
effect of that was that, whilst Mrs B was authorised  to use the account,  Mr B was the sole 
account holder  and liable for any payments validly made on it. For that reason, he is the sole 
complainant here. 
Mr and Mrs B have  explained that Mrs Bs purse was stolen in May 2018. It contained her 
Tesco Bank credit card,  along with other credit and debit  cards.  The morning after the theft, 
the card was used  to make two foreign currency transactions  and a cash machine 
withdrawal of £300. Shortly after that Mrs B noticed  that her purse was missing;  she 
contacted Mr B who in turn contacted Tesco Bank  to explain what  had happened.  
Tesco Bank later spoke to Mrs B about her card and PIN. She repeated that her purse had 
been stolen and that it had contained  her Tesco Bank card, along with other cards.  Tesco 
Bank asked  her about the PIN. Mrs B said that she hadnt kept a record  of her PIN in her 
purse  although  she acknowledged that she had kept a record of the PIN relating to another 
card. She said she had a different PIN for each card,  but hadnt written  her Tesco Bank  PIN 
down; whilst shed used  it regularly in the past,  she hadnt done  so for a while.  
The currency exchange that had carried out the first transactions looked into things.  Mr B 
said it identified that a fake passport had been used and so refunded most of those 
transactions. But that left a balance of £317.28 on Mr Bs account,  which  he paid in full the 
following month. That balance arose  solely from the transactions made using Mrs Bs card 
and which  Mr B says werent  authorised. 
Tesco Bank wouldnt however refund the payment  of £317.28.  It said that, since  it couldnt 
identify a point  of compromise for Mrs Bs PIN, it was entitled to hold Mr B (as the account 
holder) liable  for the disputed transactions. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service,  and one of our investigators considered it. She 
thought that Tesco Bank  should refund the payment  of £317.28, together  with interest.  She 
thought the transactions  hadnt been  authorised; the most likely explanation was that Mrs B 
had, after all, kept a record of her PIN with her card. 
Tesco Bank didnt  accept the investigators opinion. It thought that, based on what  Mrs B had 
said about her PIN, only she could  have carried out the transactions. The view, it said, 
disregarded the facts as presented by Mrs B; a version of events had been manufactured to 
justify the investigators  position. It said however that it would make an offer in line with the 
view if this service  recorded the outcome as being  in its favour, avoiding the need for an 
ombudsman to review  the case.  The investigator  explained that this wouldnt be possible, 
and so Tesco Bank asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did. 
Ref: DRN75326782As Tesco Bank has identified, the key issue here is whether or not Mrs B made or authorised 
the disputed transactions made  on her card. If she did not, Tesco Bank can only hold Mr B 
liable to the extent allowed by section  84 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  currently £35. I 
have therefore  focused on that issue. 
The banks records show that the cash machine withdrawal was made using  Mrs Bs 
genuine card and the correct PIN. Contrary to what Mr B appears  to have been told by some 
third parties, Im satisfied  that Mrs Bs PIN could not have been obtained from the card itself; 
its unlikely too that someone  could have guessed it at the first attempt. Mrs B hadnt  used 
her card for some time,  so its reasonable to rule out the possibility of someone being  able to 
observe her PIN before  stealing her purse. 
There are, therefore,  two realistic possibilities. They are:
Mrs B did, as the bank suggested,  carry out the disputed transactions herself, or she 
allowed someone else to do so. 
Contrary to what Mrs B says, there was in fact a record of her PIN in her purse. 
Both possibilities are inconsistent with what Mrs B told the bank. 
I think it unlikely that the first of these is the correct explanation. Mr B said the currency  
exchange dealership told him it had identified that a fake passport had been used; whether 
or not thats  correct, it made a refund of £5,000. Mr B said too that the police had identified  
from CCTV footage that Mrs B hadnt  been  using her card.  And I note that there  were  failed 
attempts to use the card, even whilst Mr B was on the phone to Tesco Bank, reporting its 
theft. 
Ive listened to the call in which Tesco Bank discussed with both Mr and Mrs B what had 
happened. I dont agree with Mr B that his wife was pressed into denying  that the PIN was 
kept with the card.  I think the questioning  was reasonable and straightforward; the bank 
simply asked whether Mrs B kept the PIN with the card in her purse.  And, as the bank 
observes, if she had done so, it wouldnt have been  able to hold Mr B liable on the grounds  
that Mrs B hadnt kept the card and PIN safe.  
Like the investigator, however, I think that its more likely than not that Mrs B did in fact have 
a record of her PIN with or near her card. Thats not of course  what  she told Tesco  Bank, 
and nor is it what this service has been told. But I agree with the investigator that this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Mrs B has been dishonest; its quite  possible in my view that shed  
overlooked that fact. 
I dont agree that the investigator  disregarded  the evidence  here.  She weighed it up to 
decide what she thought was more  likely  to have happened. She concluded that Mrs B was 
honest in saying she hadnt  authorised the transactions but mistaken in her recollection 
about the PIN. The bank had reached  the opposite conclusion  that Mrs B was dishonest in 
saying she didnt authorise the transactions  but it believed what she said about  the PIN. I 
dont think the investigators conclusions about this were unreasonable, and I agree with 
them. 
I believe that a fair outcome would be, as far as possible, to place  Mr B in the position  he 
would have been in had the disputed transactions not taken place.  The investigators 
recommendation achieved that and I shall make a similar award.  
Ref: DRN75326783my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Bs complaint, Tesco Personal Finance plc should  pay 
Mr B £317.28 together with interest on that sum from 27 June 2018 until the date of 
payment. Interest should be at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7532678