K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  when they took advice from L&G.  Acting on that advice, they 
re-mortgaged to another lender, consolidating their unsecured debt.
Theyre represented by a claims management company (CMC) which says on their behalf 
that the advice  was unsuitable and the mortgage  mis-sold. It says they shouldnt have been 
advised to consolidate their debts  as there was no need to do so. They didnt need to move 
lender, and if they did L&G didnt  recommend  the cheapest lender. It says they shouldnt  
have been advised to pay for a will with mortgage  funds. And the fees they paid  including  
legal fees  were  excessive.
L&G upheld their complaint in part. It agreed  they shouldnt  have been advised to pay for 
their will with mortgage funds, so offered to refund the mortgage  interest theyd been 
charged. Its since also offered to refund commission  the broker  received from the solicitor, 
together with £100 compensation, which the CMC  accepted. It said it was suitable to 
consolidate a personal loan, but there was no need to consolidate their relatively small credit 
card balances as well. It offered to refund the additional cost of doing so  if Mr and Mrs H 
provided evidence  theyd used the mortgage  funds to clear the credit cards. But L&G said 
the mortgage was otherwise suitable.
Our investigator thought L&G had made a fair offer,  so the CMC asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. I issued a provisional  decision, in which I said:
I think L&G has made a fair offer in respect  of the interest on the cost of the will. I 
dont think it needs  to refund the cost itself, since it wouldnt put Mr and Mrs H back in 
the position they would have been but for the advice  they would end up with a free 
will. L&Gs  offer compensates them  for the cost of adding the will purchase to the 
mortgage, but not for the cost of the will itself, and thats fair. Its also made  a fair 
offer in respect of the commission.
I dont think its gone far enough in respect  of the debt consolidation, though.  It says 
consolidating the loan, but not the credit  cards, was suitable. I cant  see that there 
was any need  to consolidate  the loan either. It only had four years left to run, wasnt 
at a high interest  rate compared to the mortgage,  and I cant see that Mr and Mrs H 
were struggling with the repayments. I dont think they had any need  to consolidate 
their debts at all.
I can see from the completion statement that the loan was repaid by the solicitors 
from the mortgage funds.  But the amount of the credit card balances was paid direct 
to Mr and Mrs H. So L&G should refund the extra cost of consolidating the loan. But I 
agree it only needs  to do so in respect of the credit  cards if Mr and Mrs H can show  
that they did in fact use the mortgage funds for that purpose  otherwise theres  no 
loss. I take the CMCs  point that this is something that would be difficult  to prove with 
the passage of time. The credit card companies may be able to provide historic  
account information if Mr and Mrs H havent kept their statements. But while  there 
may be difficulties in doing so, it is for Mr and Mrs H to prove that theyve suffered a 
loss. 
Ref: DRN74099672The CMC has said that the broker didnt recommend the cheapest lender. Ive looked 
at the sourcing document, and there was one other lender that had a lower  interest  
rate than the one recommended. But it had higher fees, so I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for L&G to have recommended the lender it did. And I note that the 
cheapest lender later collapsed and no longer offered new lending or new rates   so 
if that one had been recommended,  Mr and Mrs H could well have  ended  up in a 
much worse  position than they did. I accept thats  a matter of hindsight, and couldnt 
have been known at the time. But its relevant to the question of whether the advice 
caused them  any loss  which I dont think it did.
As regards  the various fees,  I think  they were clearly  set out and agreed to by 
Mr and Mrs H. While  other brokers may have been cheaper, or described  their fees 
in other  ways, I think it was clear  to Mr and Mrs H what  they were  paying and they 
received the service they paid for. So I dont think they were unfairly treated.
L&G accepted my provisional decision.  The CMC didnt. It said:
L&G shouldnt have  recommended  the particular will company it did, so its 
agreement with Mr and Mrs H should be treated  as void and all the fees refunded;
It said noting that the cheaper lender later collapsed involved the use of hindsight;
It said it was unreasonable  and unrealistic  to expect Mr and Mrs H to provide 
evidence of having paid off their credit cards so long ago. L&G recommended 
consolidation so it should be assumed thats what Mr and Mrs H did. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive also considered again my provisional decision and the conclusions  I reached.  Having 
done so, I see no reason  to depart from them. Im not persuaded by what  the CMC says, 
which essentially re-states  arguments  its already made. 
Theres been no suggestion that Mr and Mrs H didnt receive the will theyd paid for. L&G 
isnt responsible for the quality of the service  the will writer provided. And I think the fees 
L&G itself charged  were clearly set out and agreed to by Mr and Mrs H, and they received 
the service they paid for  which,  with the exception of the debt consolidation, was suitable. 
Its fair that L&G compensates them for the consolidation. But I dont think it also needs to 
refund the fees Mr and Mrs H paid.
As I said in my provisional decision,  its important not to use hindsight in assessing whether 
the recommendation was suitable.  I think, based  on what  was known and knowable at the 
time, it was. The second lender was chosen rather than the first because while it had a 
slightly higher interest rate it had lower fees. Thats a reasonable trade-off, and I dont think  it 
was an unsuitable  choice. If it had been,  the fact of the other lenders  later collapse might be 
relevant to the extent of any losses Mr and Mrs H suffered  but that doesnt  arise since it 
was a suitable choice based on the information  available at the time.
I appreciate the advice  took place some  time ago  though I dont think  2005 is quite 
20 years ago  and it might be difficult for Mr and Mrs H to get evidence  of having paid off 
Ref: DRN74099673the credit  cards.  But the CMC  hasnt produced any evidence to show  that its tried to 
investigate this on their behalf; its merely said that its not a fair thing  to ask. 
The debt consolidation was unsuitable  because it was a more expensive method  of clearing 
the debt and there was no other  good reason for doing so. The loss is the additional  cost of 
repaying the debt by consolidation. If in fact the extra  borrowing wasnt  used to clear  the 
debt but was used for some other purpose, firstly Mr and Mrs H didnt follow L&Gs  advice so 
it didnt cause their losses. And secondly,  there  is no loss because  the borrowing wasnt 
consolidated. I think its reasonable  to ask Mr and Mrs H to try to show that they have in fact 
incurred a loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to:
Calculate:
oThe cost of the loan had it not been consolidated;
oThe payments  made to the consolidated loan to date;
oThe amount  of the loan still outstanding  on the mortgage balance;
Add together the second and third figures, deduct the first and pay the result to 
Mr and Mrs H.
Make  the same  calculation and payment  in respect of the credit cards, if 
Mr and Mrs H provide  evidence that they paid off the credit cards  on receipt of the 
mortgage funds
This is in addition to the offers Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited has made in 
respect of the cost of the will and commission, which it should also pay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7409967