K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Arrow  Global  Guernsey Limited  (Arrow Global)  havent  followed the correct  
procedure in seeking to recover an outstanding balance. This has resulted in a County  Court  
Judgment (CCJ) he was unaware of. He asks for the CCJ to be removed and for a 
settlement offer to be accepted.
Ref: DRN72122622background
Mr B has complained about Arrow  Global Guernsey Limited and its agents, but for ease, I 
have referred to Arrow Global throughout my decision.
Mr B held a credit card account, which was passed to Arrow  Global in 2011.
Arrow Global  wrote  to the address it had on file on 17 December 2013,  15 January 2014 and 
27 January 2014 . In the letters it said unless payment of the balance was made it was 
instructed to issue court proceedings without further notice.
Mr B says this was his mums  address. He used it as a postal address as he moved around a 
lot. He says he didnt receive any of these letters.
Arrow Global  received  no response from the correspondence sent to this address  and so it, 
wrote to an alternative address acquired  after performing  an address search. It sent letters 
on 15 April 2014, 9 July 2014 and 8 August  2014. It says no response was received  or post 
returned from any of the letters sent and so court proceedings were issued on 6 November 
2014 and judgement obtained on 16 January 2015. A further letter  was sent on 16 April 
2015 explaining the action  taken and requesting Mr B contact to make a payment 
arrangement.
 Mr B says he didnt receive  any of the letters, as he wasnt residing at this address  when  
these letters were sent. He says he only became aware of the CCJ in 2018 and he 
contacted Arrow Global  immediately.
Mr B complained about the action taken.  He says the original creditor had his telephone 
number and email  address  and so he feels these should have been passed to Arrow  Global 
and it should have attempted to contact  him on either rather than just writing to the address 
on file. He feels Arrow Global shouldnt have  started court  proceedings and since  he has 
been in touch, they havent responded to his settlement offer, instead issuing a warrant of 
control and causing  unnecessary worry and upset.
In its final response dated 3 September 2018,  Arrow Global didnt  uphold  his complaint. It 
said it had written to his given address and then further addresses it acquired after 
attempting to locate  Mr B. It says since Mr B has been in contact it still hasnt received an 
acceptable settlement  offer or offer of payment and in its last discussions Mr B had said he 
wanted to seek  independent legal  advice.it. After giving what  it considered a reasonable time 
to do so, and having  no further  response, it issued a warrant of control which  it has 
suspended pending a decision  from this service.
Following a further complaint, Arrow  Global partially upheld some  of Mr Bs concerns in its 
final response date 8 October  2018, but remained of the view it had acted fairly and 
reasonably with regard to making reasonable attempts to contact Mr B and the subsequent 
court proceedings were issued  correctly.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. He looked at all the available  evidence and found 
Arrow Global  had acted  fairly and reasonably in seeking to contact  Mr B before issuing court 
proceedings and so didnt  ask them to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He didnt  feel the investigation  had been thorough  and felt it had been 
biased in favour of Arrow Global. He asked for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN72122623my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr B. Ill explain  why. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr B hasnt disputed he owes the original  outstanding balance and hes confirmed the 
address Arrow Global  wrote to initially was his correspondence address.  He has also 
confirmed he had lived at the address Arrow Global wrote to after it didnt receive any 
response from his given address, albeit he says he wasnt  residing there when Arrow Global 
wrote to that address.
I have looked  carefully  at copies of the correspondence  sent to this address and I have 
reviewed Arrow Globals system notes which also show  the letters being dispatched on 
these dates. I appreciate  Mr B says he didnt receive  these letters,  but Im satisfied  that 
these were dispatched by Arrow Global. I dont find it fair and reasonable then, to hold Arrow 
Global responsible for any postal issue that might  have  occurred.
I understand Mr B feels the original creditor had alternative contacts  and these should have 
been passed to Arrow  Global. I think its important to say my role here is to look into whether 
Arrow Global  have acted  fairly and reasonably in attempting to contact Mr B, but its not for 
me to direct how it should do that. Arrow Global has also confirmed it didnt have an email  
address for Mr B until his contact in July 2018. Given that Mr B hadnt been in contact with 
the original creditor,  or Arrow Global, to advise them of his current address  or make any 
payment arrangements,  Im persuaded Arrow Global made  reasonable attempts to contact 
him on numerous occasions. 
Given non-response, I'm also satisfied Arrow  Global  weren't acting unreasonably or unfairly 
in taking court action  in November 2014. According  to the Civil Procedure  Rules,  if Mr B 
wants the CCJ is to be set aside (cancelled  in effect) that can only be done by the court.  
Arrow Global  can also apply to the court for further  enforcement if there is no agreed  
settlement or satisfactory payment arrangement, such as a warrant  of control.  If Mr B wants  
to have the CCJ removed, he will have to make an application to the court for it to be set 
aside.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7212262