K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) when she 
took out a loan in 2002.
background
Mrs C applied for a loan in 2002. Mrs C took out PPI with the loan at the same time. The 
loan was for £3,000 and was to be repaid  over 24 months. The premium  for the PPI policy 
was £390.28.  It was added to the main loan so the total borrowed by Mrs C was £3,390.28.
The PPI policy covered Mrs Cs loan repayments  for up to 12 months if she lost her job. And 
if Mrs C became too unwell to work  it would cover  her loan repayments  until she returned to 
work or until the loan was repaid. Itd also have cleared the outstanding balance of the loan if 
Mrs C had died.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so her complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Where there is limited information, I will make  my decision based on whats  more likely to 
have happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available,  what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The loan and the PPI were arranged  during  a meeting at a branch.  Mrs C has told us she 
was pressured  into accepting the PPI.
Lloyds has shown us a copy of the original credit agreement.  I can see the PPI premium has 
been set out separately from the main  loan. The PPI is also described as optional on the 
agreement. There  are two boxes  which  could  be crossed to either  accept or reject  the PPI. 
And I can see the box to accept the PPI has been marked with a cross.
I cant be sure what was said to Mrs C about the PPI during the meeting. But the sale took 
place in a meeting and Ive no doubt the Lloyds representative told Mrs C that she should 
take out the PPI. But thats not the same  as saying she had to.
Taking into account everything  Ive seen, and what I know of Lloyds usual sales  process  at 
the time,  I think its most  likely  Lloyds made  it clear  Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose  to buy it - although I can understand why she might not recall this after so 
many years.
Because the PPI was sold in a face to face meeting, I think its most likely Lloyds 
recommended Mrs C buy it. That means it had to make  sure it was right for her. And from 
what Ive seen it looks like it was.
Ref: DRN72633812I can see Mrs C was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as 
if these wouldve affected Mrs C. For example she didnt have any medical  conditions  that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mrs C was self-employed at the time. Some PPI policies can make it difficult for                
self-employed people  to make an unemployment claim. But Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of this particular policy and in my view Mrs C wouldve been  able to make a claim 
for unemployment without  much  difficulty if she became unemployed.
As a self-employed person Mrs C wouldnt have received any sick pay if she couldnt  work.  
And the PPI that Lloyds sold her couldve paid a monthly benefit  until she returned to work or 
the loan was repaid. Itd also pay a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months if Mrs C became 
unemployed. So I think Mrs C wouldve found the policy useful if things went  wrong.
Mrs C has told us she had savings she could  have used  to repay the loan. But Mrs C was 
taking out a loan instead of using her savings. So I think Mrs C wanted  to keep her savings 
intact. And the PPI policy would enable her to do so if she became  unwell  or unemployed.
Mrs C owned a car which she could have sold to repay the loan.  But the PPI policy wouldve 
enabled her to keep the car and maintain  the loan repayments if things went  wrong.
The PPI policy was paid for with a single premium upfront which  was added to the loan.        
I note that if Mrs C cleared the loan early she wouldnt have got a proportionate rebate so 
she may have lost out. But Ive not seen  any evidence that Mrs C intended to repay  the loan 
early at the time she took it out. And Ive not seen that she had a history of doing  so in 2002.  
So I dont  think the early cancellation terms made the policy unsuitable for her.
 
Lloyds should  also have given Mrs C clear information about the policy  so she could decide 
whether to buy it. Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mrs C all the information it shouldve done.  
But I think its likely she agreed to buy the policy and was interested in this type of cover.  
And as the policy appears to have been right for her, I dont think  any clearer information 
wouldve put Mrs C off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out because of anything Lloyds 
mightve done wrong. 
In summary,  I think it most likely  Lloyds made Mrs C aware  that the PPI policy sold to her in 
2002 was optional. And I think she chose  to buy it. I think the policy  was right for her and 
would have been useful if Mrs C couldnt work or lost her job. And even if Lloyds had given    
Mrs C all the clear  information it should  have, I still think she would have taken out the PPI 
policy.
Ref: DRN72633813my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint, and I make no award  against  
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7263381