K821x#15complaint
Mr R is complaining about the way Secure Trust Bank Plc (Secure Trust) handled the return 
of a car he acquired  under  a hire purchase  agreement after it accepted  it was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
 
background
In May 2018  Mr R entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Secure Trust to acquire a 
car. Around two weeks later he contacted  Secure  Trust  to say that the car had a broken 
offside front coil spring. And he said he wanted to reject the car. Secure Trust asked him to 
have the car inspected  by a VAT registered  garage  to confirm the fault, which  Mr R did. The 
garage confirmed  that the car had a broken offside front coil spring.  Secure Trust said that it 
wanted an independent inspection carried out on the car to find out if the fault was present or 
developing at the point of sale. Mr R later said that an engine fault light had also come up on 
the dashboard.
An independent company  inspected the car and confirmed that it had a broken offside front 
coil spring. But it didnt  say whether it was present or developing at the point of sale.  It also 
confirmed that there was an engine fault light, but it said that a further inspection was 
necessary to identify  what was causing  that. 
Secure Trust and the selling dealership discussed  this matter as to whether Mr R should  be 
able to reject  the car. The selling dealership said that, when Mr R first reported the issue,  
hed said that hed been driving down a poor quality road and had heard a clunk. So it 
thought it was most likely  that the spring  had got damaged by Mr R hitting a hole in the road. 
It also highlighted that the car had passed an MOT before  the sale.  It thought  further 
investigation was necessary before  it could  agree  that Mr R could reject the car. But Secure 
Trust thought that Mr R had the right to reject  the car. And it advised Mr R he could do so. 
Secure Trust said that it would take around two weeks for the process  to be carried out. It 
said that Mr R had travelled almost  2,000  miles in the car, so it said that it was entitled to 
charge him an amount  for the usage. But it said it would refund everything that Mr R had 
paid towards the finance.
Mr R was unhappy with how long Secure Trust said the process  would take and he asked for 
a hire car while the complaint was being investigated. Secure Trust agreed to provide him 
with a hire car, but there was a dispute  over which hire car company it wanted to use. 
Secure Trust initially  sourced Mr R a hire car which would be delivered to him. But Mr R 
didnt want to use that hire car company as hed had issues with the company before.  So 
Secure Trust said Mr R could source  his own hire car and it would reimburse him. But Mr R 
didnt think he should have to pay for the hire car upfront.  He also said that the hire car 
company wanted  to take a £200 deposit  from him, which he didnt  think he should  have to 
pay.
Secure Trust contacted the hire car company Mr R wanted to use to pay for the car hire. But 
the company said that it could only accept payment from Mr R. So Secure  Trust agreed  to 
pay the money to Mr R directly.
On 3 July 2018 Mr R put a £1,000 deposit down to acquire a replacement car. He also told 
Secure Trust that hed started to have issues with the automatic gearbox on the car. Secure 
Trust arranged to collect the car on 13 July 2018 and ended the agreement. But it incorrectly 
applied the cost of collecting the car to Mr Rs credit  agreement. This meant that Mr R 
Ref: DRN79893732received a default notice. Mr R said that he thought this meant he wouldnt be able to get 
finance to buy the car he was buying. So he withdrew from the sale.
Secure Trust later sent Mr R a text message saying that it was going  to take his direct debit 
payment. Mr R complained about  that as hed been told the agreement had ended. Secure 
Trust said the payment  wouldnt  be taken and agreed that he could cancel the direct debit 
mandate.
But on 13 August 2018 Secure Trust sent Mr R another default notice. So Mr R complained 
again to Secure Trust that this had impacted his credit file. Secure Trust said that it would 
ensure that this marker was removed.
Mr R remained  unhappy with how Secure  Trust had handled this matter.  And, in particular, 
he raised the following losses that he wants Secure  Trust to compensate  him for:
1.He said that because of the issues with the default notices, he wasnt able to replace the 
car for four weeks. And he said that this meant  he had to pay £120 per week to hire a 
replacement vehicle;
2.He lost out on a car he really wanted  because he was concerned his credit file had been 
affected. He also says he lost out on interest  on the £1,000  deposit between  the time he 
paid it until he got it back;
3.He lost out on the amount he paid for road tax and car insurance as he didnt get a full 
refund of what he paid;  and
4.He said that he lost his work contract due to the amount of time that he spent  on the 
telephone with Secure Trust trying  to arrange  the collection of his car. And he wants 
Secure Trust to compensate him for the three weeks of income  he lost (£1,250 per 
week).
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. She thought that Secure Trust had largely 
done more than we would  ordinarily  have expected it to. She said that it didnt need to 
provide Mr R with a hire car while the finance  was being cancelled.  And she also didnt think  
there were any unreasonable delays in ending  the agreement. But she thought that Mr R 
was out of pocket  from having to cancel his insurance policy,  which she estimated to be 
around £92.50.  So she thought that Secure  Trust should refund this.
Both parties  didnt accept  the investigators findings.  Secure Trust said that the investigator 
had already said that she thought it had done  more than it needed to, so it didnt think it was 
fair that shed asked  it to pay further  compensation. Mr R didnt think the investigator had 
understood what had happened and had taken what hed said into account. He also didnt 
think Secure Trust had been telling us the truth. And he raised the following points:
1.While  he was given a hire car, his car wasnt collected until several  weeks  after he hired 
the car. He said he had to make many  calls to Secure  Trust as he said they couldnt hire 
a car as it had promised  him. 
2.He maintains that the client he was working for had noticed how long hed spent on the 
telephone and had said it was interfering with his duties to watch over other contractors. 
So his contract was ended.
3.He said several credit  references added the non-payment Secure Trust referred to in its 
default notices.  And he said it takes  several  weeks for credit reference  agencies to 
delete entries from his credit file. 
4.He said that he paid the deposit of £1,000 to buy the replacement car on the proviso that 
he applied for credit  within two weeks. And he said that he had to cancel the purchase 
Ref: DRN79893733because of the issues Secure Trust had caused. He said he opened a new bank account 
at the time and he said the bank wouldnt give him any credit facilities  because of a bad 
credit rating. He said hed been refused several times for finance. He said he was 
eventually told his credit  score had been restored and he said it was only then that he 
was able to acquire his current car.
5.He said that while  this matter had been ongoing, hed had to hire a van at a cost of £120 
per week.  And he said he wouldnt have had to do that had Secure Trust not put the 
markers on his credit  file.
As neither party agreed with the investigator, the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
Mr R has raised  a number of concerns about the way Secure Trust has handled his 
complaint. I shall look to deal with these points separately. 
length of time it took Secure Trust to take the car back
Mr R is unhappy that it took Secure Trust  several  weeks to accept his right to reject  the car 
and to ultimately take it back. He said he showed that there was a fault with the car but it 
then took Secure Trust several weeks before  it collected it. But I dont  think  Secure Trust 
handled this unreasonably.
Mr R acquired  the car under a hire purchase agreement.  Legislation  in this case  the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)   implies a term into the hire purchase  agreement that the 
car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance  provider, Secure Trust is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.  
The CRA sets out that a consumer has the short-term right to reject a car within the first 30 
days of the agreement if they can show theres  a fault with it that meant  that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I recognise  that Mr R had shown there  was a fault 
with the car, but I think it was reasonable for Secure Trust and the supplying dealership to 
have concerns about whether it was present  at the point of sale.
Mr R initially told Secure Trust that the car had a damaged offside front coil spring.  But the 
car had passed  an MOT just before Mr R had acquired the car. And it had only travelled one 
mile further between the MOT and Mr R acquiring it. I think its reasonable to say that the 
MOT would have picked  up that the offside  front coil spring was damaged if it was at the 
time. 
Mr R says that he noticed the damaged  spring  straight away. But Im also conscious that he 
had emailed the supplying dealership three days before reporting the issue  with the coil 
spring to say:
I am not happy with the car I purchased for a number of reasons. Lack of luggage  space. 
Lack of storage inside  in car. When I am in drivers seat no room for passenger behind. No 
phone connection  enabled. Basically  its simply too small  for purpose. I would consider 
Ref: DRN79893734swapping the car & finance if possible for another larger 4x4 vehicle being  sold at the same  
garage.
I think its most likely  that Mr R would have raised  the issue with the coil spring in this email if 
it had been present at the time. Further to this, I understand  that when Mr R reported the 
issue he said he was going  to see a friend and it wasnt the best of roads on which he was 
on when he heard a clunk. Given all this, I think it was reasonable for Secure Trust to want 
to see evidence that the fault was present or developing since  the point of sale.  And it was 
reasonable that it wanted an independent report carried out as theres a fair inference that 
the spring was damaged while Mr R was driving  it.
However, I also recognise that a further  fault had materialised on the car with the engine 
fault light coming on. Ive reviewed the independent  report and, while  it says the issues Mr R 
has raised were present,  I dont think it sets out whether they were present or developing  at 
the point of sale. And it also says further investigation was needed to identify what  was 
causing the engine fault light to be on. Given this, I think it would have  been  fair for Secure 
Trust to have carried out further investigation had it wanted to do so.
However Secure Trust agreed to allow Mr R to reject the car within  three days  of receiving 
the independent report. And I think it acted  more than reasonably in doing  so. I think  its 
likely that further  investigation  could have  concluded that Mr R would have been entitled  to 
reject the car due to what fault was causing  the engine  fault light to be illuminated. I think 
Secure Trust could  have  carried out a further investigation if it had wanted to. But, given its 
accepted the car was of unsatisfactory  quality I dont need  to consider this any further.
Secure Trust explained  to Mr R that it could take around two weeks to unwind  the agreement  
and collect the car. And I dont think this is unusual  or an unreasonable  timeframe.  But it also 
agreed to provide Mr R with a hire car during this time. So I dont think  Secure Trust treated 
Mr R unreasonably  in this respect.
I also note that Secure Trust has refunded all the payments Mr R made  on the finance 
agreement  including the monthly  finance payment he made in June  2018.  But I can see 
that Mr R had travelled  around 2,000 miles in the car. So he has had use of it. Secure Trust 
was entitled to charge Mr R a sum to reflect this fact. I think it could have reasonably 
charged one monthly instalment (£191.25) to reflect the usage of the car  given he used the 
car until Secure Trust took it back. So I think it acted more than reasonably in refunding the 
June instalment.
However, Mr R had to cancel his insurance policy because hed returned the car. And I 
understand the insurer charged him a £75 cancellation fee to do so. I think its fair that Mr R 
has to pay for the insurance premium for the time he had the car. But I think  Secure Trust 
should refund the extra  cost hes incurred in cancelling  the policy.  So I think it should refund 
the £75 fee. I note Mr R has said hes incurred road tax costs.  But I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest that hes paid more would  he should  have paid in road tax for the time he was using 
the car.
Ref: DRN79893735provision of hire car
Mr R is unhappy with the way that Secure Trust provided him with a hire car. In particular  
hes unhappy that it initially said that it would  only provide with a hire car from a company 
that hed had issues with before and didnt want to use. Hes also unhappy  that he was told 
hed have to pay for it himself first.
I note Mr Rs concerns in this respect, but it must  be noted  that Secure Trust has said that it 
only provided the hire car as a goodwill  gesture while  it went  through  the process of 
unwinding the agreement  although I dont think its unreasonable that Secure Trust was 
required to keep Mr R mobile  while he waited for the car to be collected. From reviewing 
whats happened, I think Secure Trust has looked to accommodate  Mr Rs requests and 
assist with the concerns that Mr R had. 
I appreciate that Mr R didnt want to use the hire car company Secure  Trust initially  wanted 
to use because of his previous experiences. But Secure Trust wouldnt have been aware of 
these issues. Once Mr R expressed his concerns, it sourced alternative  options. I can see 
that it did contact hire car companies but they advised that they could only accept payment 
from Mr R directly. So I dont think Secure Trust acted unreasonably in initially  saying that 
Mr R would have to book  the hire car and it would  refund the cost. I also think this is 
standard practice.
So, while I note Mr Rs concerns in this respect, I cant  say that it has treated him unfairly.
impact on credit file
Secure Trust incorrectly  sent Mr R two default  notices and I can understand why he was 
unhappy it did so. It incorrectly added the cost of collecting the car to Mr Rs account 
statement, which made it appear that he was in arrears. And it shouldnt have done so. 
Mr R says that because  of this he didnt think he would be able to get finance so pulled out 
of an agreement to buy a car. He said that it takes a number of weeks  for credit  files to be 
updated. So he said that he was unable to get a new finance  agreement because of the 
default notices.  As a result he said he had to hire a replacement van at a cost of £120 per 
week until he could replace his car.
I note Mr R thinks it takes several weeks for a credit file to be updated. But I dont agree as 
credit files can be updated as soon as the finance provider asks the credit reference  
agencies to do so. However there are a number  of free credit reference agencies  which  will 
take longer to update.  But this doesnt impact an individuals  ability to apply for credit  as this 
is based on his actual updated credit  score. 
A credit score provider  has confirmed to us that the agreement was taken off Mr Rs credit 
file on 20 August 2018. But I dont have anything to show what  was on his credit file before 
then in respect to this finance agreement.
I can see that Mr R first contacted Secure  Trust to complain that hed received the default  
notice on 19 July 2018. But I can also see that Secure Trust applied  to remove  it the next 
day and it also explained to Mr R that it would do so. And I havent seen enough to show that 
it didnt do so and that his credit score was impacted for any significant time as a result of 
this.
Ref: DRN79893736Mr R then received a second default  notice on 17 August  2018  and called Secure  Trust to 
complain. Secure Trust said that it removed the record  immediately that day. And, as I said 
above, a credit score provider confirmed on 20 August 2018 that it didnt have a record  of 
the finance agreement.
Mr R says that he didnt  think  he would have been able to get finance because  of the default 
notices. But I havent seen anything to show that hed actually applied  for the finance. And I 
think Mr R needed to take reasonable steps  to mitigate his losses   this would include 
getting an accurate  and updated record of his credit  file. So I cant  reasonably  hold Secure 
Trust responsible for Mr Rs hire charges.
distress and inconvenience
Its clear that Mr R would  have suffered some significant distress and inconvenience  as a 
result of whats happened.  Mr R would have  understandably  been very distressed by 
incorrectly receiving a default notice on two occasions. Its also clear that hes made a large 
number of telephone calls to resolve  this matter which I think is a direct result of being sold a 
car which wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  
So I do think  Secure Trust needs  to compensate Mr R for whats  happened. But I also need 
to balance this against the fact that Secure Trust refunded a £191.25 monthly repayment 
when it didnt need to do so. I think £191.25  is around the amount that I would have awarded 
in compensation  taking  all the distress and inconvenience Secure Trust has caused into 
account. So I think Mr R has effectively received fair compensation and I dont think it needs 
to pay him anything further for whats happened.
I note Mr R says that he lost his contract  because of the number of telephone calls he made. 
But I dont think I can reasonably hold Secure Trust responsible  for that. I can only require 
Secure Trust to compensate Mr R for any losses that would be considered  to be a 
reasonably foreseeable loss arising  from the breach of contract. I think  losing a work 
contract is too remote a loss from selling a car that wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
summary
I agree  that its likely that Secure Trust supplied Mr R with a car that wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality. But I dont think Secure Trust caused any unreasonable delays in the way that it 
handled Mr Rs rejection of the car. But I think Mr R has lost out due to having  to cancel his 
insurance policy. And I think it should refund  him £75. It should  add 8% simple interest per 
year on this from when Mr R paid it until he gets it back
I also think Secure Trust has unfairly caused  Mr R a lot of distress and inconvenience  in the 
way that it handled this matter. But, I think it has already refunded £191.25 more than it 
needed to do. And I think this is in line with what I would have awarded in compensation. So 
I dont think it needs to pay anything further.
Ref: DRN79893737my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Secure Trust Bank Plc to refund the £75 cancellation  fee Mr R incurred in cancelling  
his insurance policy.  It should  add 8% simple interest per year on this from when Mr R paid it 
until he gets it back. If Secure Trust thinks that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate. I dont  require it to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7989373