K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the advice  he was given by Zurich Assurance Ltd to contract out of 
the State  Earnings Related Pension  Scheme (SERPS) and direct his employer pension  
contributions to a personal pension. He has concerns about whether this advice was suitable 
in his situation. He says the difference between protected rights and non-protected rights 
was not explained and there was nothing in the application form about charges.  He thought 
that charges only applied  if he was making  contributions.
 
background
Mr M set up a personal pension in 1998. This was to receive both contributions in respect of 
contracting out of SERPS and from his employer. Contributions in respect of SERPS were  
received by Zurich  until 2002. Mr Ms employer contributions were received until 2000.  The 
part of the pension receiving employer contributions eventually lapsed without value 
because of the ongoing charges being  applied by Zurich. The SERPS part still has a value.
Mr M complained to Zurich. It did not uphold his complaint. It said that Mr M would  have 
received documentation at outset  that fully explained how the pension plan operated and 
that any returns were uncertain. This included the policy  used to contract  out of SERPS. It 
said illustrations and other documents had been  provided which  compared  the possible 
returns from contracting out of SERPS and from remaining in SERPS. And the risks of 
contracting out were explained.  It did not believe the advice to contract  out of SERPS was 
unsuitable. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and it was considered by an investigator.  He did 
not believe the complaint should be upheld. He thought the recommendation letters  and 
other documentation Zurich provided  explained  how the personal pension worked. He also 
thought the charges were  explained. He thought it was more likely than not that these 
documents had been supplied to Mr M. 
He also thought the recommendation to take out the personal pension, including contracting 
out of SERPS,  was suitable. He did not believe that the fact that Mr M could become self-
employed made the recommendation  unsuitable.  He would not have been  eligible for 
SERPS at that point  anyway and he could have continued to contribute  to the part of the 
pension that accepted employer contributions.  
Mr M did not agree. In summary,  he said:
As Zurich has said that some errors were made  regarding the application of charges, it 
is reasonable to consider that the documents Zurich says it had supplied may not have 
been issued. And similarly that the difference between protected rights  and non-
protected rights might not have been  explained.
He did sign the application  forms but had no reason to believe he should  receive  more  
documentation than that.
He questions  when some of the documents were dated  the recommendation letter  
being dated before the sales  meeting with the adviser. Was the advice already pre-
ordained before  the meeting? This raises  questions about the legitimacy  of the advice. 
Ref: DRN75808652He is not aware what the contracted out policy value would be in comparison to having  
remained contracted in. 
He does not believe a pension would be set up only to contract out of SERPS. And 
therefore its suitability  would depend  on the suitability of the non-protected rights  
pension set up alongside it. 
There were alternatives to setting  up the contracted  out pension.  For example a 
different charging structure or as different type of pension or even being  paid salary  
instead of pension.       
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
contracting out of SERPS
As a starting point,  contracting out of SERPS  was generally considered suitable if the 
individual was below a certain age (the pivotal age) and had sufficient  earnings.  The pivotal 
age is generally  considered to be 45. Mr M was much younger  than this. He also had 
sufficient employed earnings.  So on the face of it the advice to contract out wasnt  unsuitable. 
There is also documentation,  which Zurich says was supplied, that compares the potential 
returns from contracting out with remaining in SERPS. This details that returns are not 
guaranteed from contracting out but assuming certain rates of growth are achieved, 
contracting out would  be worthwhile for Mr M. However it did not guarantee that Mr M would 
be better off by contracting out of SERPS  that would depend on how his contracted out 
pension with Zurich  performed (which the documents explained).
Zurich says that its normal process  in such circumstances  was to provide documents setting 
out the relevant factors about  contracting out. They do explain the relevant features  of 
contracting out and the SERPS scheme. The documents  do also explain what charges will 
apply and I have  not found  indication that it was suggested that they would not apply in 
certain circumstances   say if contributions ceased. 
I appreciate that Mr M questions whether he received all the literature. However  Zurich  has said 
it would  have been supplied as this was part of its normal business process when such  advice 
was given and policies taken out. So I cannot  say it so more  likely that this wasnt  supplied.  
In any event, I believe this evidence is that contracting out of SERPS was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr M.  I do not believe the potential for Mr M to become self-employed 
affects this. The recommendation  was suitable  when  it was given.  If Mr M subsequently 
became self-employed then it would simply be that contribution would stop to the contracted 
out plan. The contracted  out plan was not necessarily expected to continue  until Mr Ms 
intended retirement because there would likely become a point when it would be better if he 
contracted back in.   
Ref: DRN75808653I would also confirm that there is no reason  why a contracted out pension cannot be set up 
on its own (i.e. without an additional  personal  or employer contribution). The suitability is not 
dependent on there being such additional  contributions and many such  policies were set up 
in isolation. So it would  not follow that because there may be issues with the contracted in 
part of a pension  that the contracted  out portion would also be necessary questionable.   
employer contributions
Mr Ms employer  was prepared to make contributions  on his behalf  to a pension  scheme.  He 
was recommended a personal pension to accept  that contribution. In terms of the pension 
itself, I do believe the recommendation  of a pension plan was appropriate and suitable. It was 
a generally accepted method of building up a value for retirement. A recommendation of tax 
efficient pension plan to build up some funds  for retirement was a sensible and appropriate 
step to take. It is not unusual that it applied charges for administering that pension and 
providing advice  to Mr M, as it would  be normal of any pension  of this type to do so. 
As with contracting out of SERPS, documents are available which Zurich says would have 
been supplied  which set out the operation of the pension, the charges applied and that 
returns were not guaranteed. The illustration does  warn  that in the early  years the value of 
the pension could be less than the value of the contributions (the brochure supplied by Mr M 
also mentions this) and that returns were not guaranteed. It was advised as a long term plan,  
potentially accepting contributions until retirement.  Because of the charges applying  there  
would be potential concerns if it was only to be used for contributions  for a short  period  of 
time. As Mr M is aware, because the contributions were  only paid to the plan for short period 
the charges have eroded the value. 
However, on balance,  in these circumstances I do not believe the advice was unsuitable.  
The evidence does  not suggest that it was known when the advice was given that 
contributions would only be paid for a short period. And it does not seem to me it was known 
when Mr M would become self-employed,  if at all. If Mr M did become self-employed  he 
could still make contributions  albeit they would  be personal contributions. 
I note Mr Ms medical history and that he did disclose this on an application for a policy  to 
support his mortgage. That policy  did require  him to disclose his medical history (because 
life assurance was provided by the policy),  the pension application did not. In terms of the 
effect of Mr Ms medical situation on this recommendation  I dont believe this rendered 
advice to put his employer  contributions into a pension unsuitable. It was not clear that 
medical conditions  would  mean  that contributions would stop and other  long term planning 
was taking place   the mortgage application  is evidence of that. 
in summary  
The recommendation of directing contributions from Mr Ms employer to a personal pension 
and contracting  out at his age was not inappropriate. The plans  that were recommended  
were a normal and accepted  way of carrying that out. The advice was suitable  based on 
what was known at the time. That some of the dating of the forms was proximate to the 
advice being given does not materially affect that suitability.   
Ref: DRN75808654my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580865