K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP (trading as Uncle Buck) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five high-cost short term credit loans that Uncle Buck provided to   
Mr M from October 2014  onwards. Mr Ms last loan was provided in January 2015. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought that he shouldnt  have been provided 
with loans three to five. Uncle  Buck  disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mr M, I think  that Uncle 
Buck should  reasonably have seen  that Mr M was unlikely  to have been able to make  his 
payments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan three. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr M had taken his third loan in quick  succession.  And this 
loan was for nearly the amount of both his previous loans  taken  together. I also think that a 
reasonable and proportionate check would have shown Uncle Buck  that Mr M had significant  
Ref: DRN77116742amounts of existing short-term loans elsewhere. The combination of these factors ought 
reasonably to have  alerted Uncle Buck to the fact that Mr M was in a cycle of short-term  
lending and that any further  loans  were more likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr M had to pay interest and charges on loans that Uncle Buck  shouldnt have provided  him 
with. So I think that he lost out and Uncle Buck should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan three  to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about loans  three  to five should be removed from    Mr Ms 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP (trading  as Uncle Buck) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7711674