complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the investment performance  of his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) and also the ongoing charges for the level of service he has received. Mr S says the 
charges are unjustifiably excessive.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision. I repeat it below.
In 2010 Mr S sought advice from Tilney Financial Planning  Limited (Tilney) about shares he 
had acquired from his employer.
Mr S's objectives  as detailed in the suitability  letter dated 7 April 2010 was to "maximis e 
immediate tax efficiency  and at the same time shelter invested assets within  a SIPP from 
future capital gains  and income tax". Mr S also wanted to receive income  tax relief on his 
contribution "at the highest rate" he would pay in the 2009/10.
Tilney recommended that Mr S's objectives would be best achieved by starting a SIPP  and 
contributing £11,200 which would  be "settled by way of a transfer of (employer)  shares to 
that value".
It was also noted that the SIPP would  offer greater  flexibility for Mr S as he could  choose to 
purchase an annuity or "follow  the route for phased retirement and/or unsecured  pension".
Tilney further explained that the reason it was recommending a particular SIPP  was 
because it was the only provider allowed to hold his employers shares.
A letter of engagement  was sent to Mr S on 17 February 2011.This  document  detailed  the 
level of services  to be provided. It outlined that Tilney would provide initial  advice on the 
investment (which it had), annual valuations and also respond  to ad hoc requests for 
information.
The letter of engagement  continued that services will be undertaken "in accordance" with its 
client agreement. Section  3.4 of this document further states that there  would be an annual 
management charge of 1% "for the provision of valuations and the ongoing
administration of its discretionary service .
Since early 2017 there have been a number  of email exchanges between  Mr S and 
Tilney in which Mr S in summary asks for clarification on the annual  fees received by 
Tilney from his SIPP and also on the performance of his SIPP.
Tilney explained that it understood that there were two "trenches of shares  valued at
£11,200 and £17,850, and a total of £30,050 invested in 2010 whose value reverted to 
nil around November 2013".
Tilney said it believed it was this loss which had the significant  effect on the overall return
Mr S was now complaining of. It also said that if the fees and the value of the 
employers shares at inception were  deducted  from the contributions made  and 
compared to the value  at the end of 2016  growth of "over  36%"  could be seen.
Mr S then complained to Tilney expressing dissatisfaction at the level of charges  applied 
to his SIPP and also about  the performance  of his SIPP.
Tilney did not uphold the complaint. It said:
   "With regard to the performance of' the SlPP it provided an analysis  of the 
annual returns Mr S has received since 2010. It was explained that whilst it is 
Ref: DRN7105477only an "approximation  but based on the increase within" the pension  fund, "they 
were in excess of 5% per annum after fee deductions".
   It appreciated Mr S would  be disappointed with the return  but it believed the 
return is reasonable considering Mr S's "moderate attitude to investment risk".
   It agreed it did not respond to Mr S's request for information in a timely manner  
and apologised for this.
   It did not agree with Mr S's view on the level of service he has received. It had 
located a client agreement which Mr S signed  in February 2011. This document 
confirmed the "specific services" that would be provided. The section  titled  
"Services" states the following:
"We have agreed that we will undertake the following  services to satisfy  your 
specific financial  requirements as detailed below:
Advise on the investment  of monies  within your pension  plan and general  financial 
planning.
Additionally on an on-going basis we will provide annual valuations and respond  to ad 
hoc requests for information"
It added that although there was no agreement it would provide an annual  review of Mr S's 
pension, reviews were carried out on 16 April 2013, 22 May 2015  and 21 September
2016. There were also occasions when informal meetings  took place .
It did not believe  the complaint "is justified".  However, it offered Mr S £100 in recognition  
of the time taken to provide him with the requested fee details.
Dissatisfied with Tilney's response Mr S referred  his complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator concluded that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
Although she said that the investment  performance aspect of Mr Ss complaint was not a 
matter for which Tilney should  be held to account, she did agree with Mr S that the annual fee 
of 1% was not justified by the service provided to Mr S by Tilney.
She concluded that Tilney  ought  to redress Mr S by way of recalculating the value  of his
SIPP from inception as if a fee of 0.5%  annually  had been charged.
Tilney did not agree.  It reiterated  that the fee had been properly disclosed to and agreed by Mr 
S. It added that setting fee levels is a commercial matter between it and its clients  and 
determining an appropriate  level of fees is not a matter for this service.
As agreement was not reached the matter  was referred to me.
I provisionally took a different view to that of our adjudicator and issued a provisional decision 
to give a further opportunity for both parties  to this complaint to make further submissions  
before I finalised my conclusions about  a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and it forms  part of my final decision here.
Tilney agreed with my provisional conclusions and made no further  substantive comments.
Mr S did not agree  with my provisional  conclusions. He made a further submission for which I 
am grateful.
 
In his submission,  Mr S said:
     I do not see the relevance of the remarks relating to the suitability  of the SIPP as a 
product. I have  not complained or even mentioned that the SIPP recommendation was bad 
advice.
Ref: DRN7105477 If it was the case that Towry/Tilneys TOB offered an annual  valuation and only a review if 
requested, these  TOB should have been  updated as it became a requirement, as set out 
by the FSA (predating FCA) that any client holding a SIPP must be offered an annual  
review. This requirement, I understand, has been  in place for a number of years.
    A 1% annual fee that only provid ed valuations  seems unjustif iable. It has been 
acknowl edge d that their fees,  for the service  provided are excessive, and whilst I   agree that its 
not down to the Regula tor to deter mine fair value , I do think that there  has to be some 
arbitration as to what constit utes fair value. In my opinion, 1 % pa for a valuation  is not fair 
value.
 As far as performance is concerned I dont think anyone  has ever doubted that the loss of 
the (employer)  shares contributed to the problem, but it is the total non-performance of their 
own funds  against benchmark and peer groups  that is in question and the fact that that 
despite ongoing poor performance, at no time was it recommended  that you could do better 
by switching into other funds, which would  be impossible as Towry will only recommend 
their own in-house solutions. Of course, if they had voluntarily offered a full review, they 
would have had to point out how the fund/s were  doing and advise you accordingly.
  My belief is that I   have not had the advice that I was justly  and rightly entitled to especially  
for the amount  I have  paid in fees and charg es
  I do not accept that because  I am an accountant in practice I should  have a greater 
understanding of this subject, just as I would not expect an IFA to have a detailed 
unders tandi ng of audit and accou ntanc y requirements.
  I have the right to expect the Ombudsm an to offer me suppo rt and protectio n rather  than to   
replay the terms  of my engagement.
I have reflected on Mr Ss further comments before reaching my final decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr S. But I am not persuaded  to change the conclusion I reached  in 
my provisional decision that his complaint  should  not be upheld. In reaching my decision, my 
comments on his further submission are set out below.
Mr S questions why my provisional  decision referred  to the suitability of the advice to open a 
SIPP. Mr S is correct  to say that he has not complained about the suitability  of this advice. 
But I did not say that he had complained about this advice. My provisional decision  set out his 
complaint as having only two aspects, as expressed by Mr S, namely the investment 
performance of his SIPP and its associated charges.
My point in referring  to the advice to open  the SIPP reflected this services investigative  remit.
We are not restricted to only considering a complaint in the specific terms expressed by a 
complainant. We are free to consider the wider circumstances of a complaint. In this case, had 
I concluded that the advice to open a SIPP was unsuitable, the investment performance and 
the SIPP charges  of which  Mr S complains, would fall away.  
I would then have  directed  that redress be paid such that Mr S would have invested differently  
and so not suffered the investment performance and charges of the SIPP. It was therefore in 
Mr Ss interests that my starting  point was to consider  the suitability of the SIPP, albeit he had 
not complained  about the advice to open it.
Ref: DRN7105477However, in the event,  I provisionally concluded  that the advice to open  the SIPP was suitable  
and so I agree with Mr S that the advice to open  it is not a cause  for complaint.
Mr S also says that an annual review  must  be offered  by Tilney to its SIPP clients. I am 
not aware of any specific regulatory obligation for this. But as I explained in my provisional  
decision, I have  not seen  evidence that such reviews would not have been  undertaken if 
requested by Mr S. That was set out in its terms of business, which  Mr S agreed to. In my 
view, these may also have been carried out under its terms of business which said Tilney 
would .. respond to ad hoc requests for information"
I appreciate that Mr S says the 1% annual charge is excessive. But this was disclosed to Mr S 
at outset. I have not seen  evidence to show the fees were  not properly  disclosed  to Mr S. Nor 
do I agree  with his comment that such a fee has been acknowledged to be excessive. What I 
actually said in my provisional decision was that the fee appears  to be substantial .That is not 
the same  as saying the fee was excessive.
However, I agree with him that setting the level of fees is not a matter  for either the regulator  
or this service, which is an informal dispute  resolution service. This is a matter for the 
legitimate commercial judgement of the product provider and its clients in deciding whether or 
not to accept them. That was the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision.
Mr S has said that it is the total non performance of his SIPP  investments and that he could 
have done better by switching to alternative  funds. That may or may not have been  the case. I 
cannot say what  alternative funds  would have been  invested in by Mr S or whether such 
unspecified funds  would  have produced better  investment returns  than his existing  funds.
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  I have not seen evidence to show  that Mr S was 
invested in funds incompatible with his recorded attitude to risk. Furthermore  and in that 
context, whilst I understand that Mr S is disappointed with his investment returns,  investment 
performance alone is not a matter this service  considers a cause for complaint. 
As long as the investments are suitably advised,  in good faith, then their future performance 
comes down to risk which is intrinsic to most  investment decisions. Future performance is not 
usually guaranteed. I have not seen  any evidence to persuade me that Mr S was given 
guarantees in respect of the future  performance of his SIPP  funds. 
Mr S contends that he has not been given the advice he says he was justly  and rightly entitled 
to. Mr S has not provided evidence to persuade me of this. I appreciate he is frustrated that 
he has incurred fees and charges for advice  which has not resulted  in superior investment 
performance. But that is not a fair or reasonable basis  on which to uphold  his complaint, as I 
have explained  above and in my provisional  decision.
I have noted Mr Ss comment that because he is an accountant,  that is not of itself evidence 
that he should have  a greater understanding of this subject . Mr S does not clarify what is 
meant by this subject  but I take it to mean  either the terms under which he agreed  to be 
advised by Tilney or his experience of investments or pensions.
My provisional decision said in this respect only that:
I have noted that Mr S is an experienced financial professional holding  a senior position
within a financial services  firm. I draw  no conclusion from this in respect of Mr Ss pension or 
investment experience. But I think it reasonable for me to assume that Mr S is familiar with 
financial documents and would have  understood their meaning  or challenged their meaning if 
he did not understand them. I have not seen  any evidence to persuade me that Mr S did so.
Mr S has not provided me with evidence to show that he was not familiar  with financial 
documents or would  not have understood their meaning or would not have  questioned  their 
meaning if he did not understand them. I do not think it unreasonable  to say that Mr S is 
familiar with and understands financial documents.
Ref: DRN7105477Finally, Mr S says that he has the right to expect the ombudsman  to .offer  me support and 
protection rather than to replay the terms of my engagement. 
I do not agree with the implied scope of Mr Ss expectation. The Financial  Ombudsman  
Service does not consider  complaints  from a start point that a complaint will be upheld,  
irrespective of its circumstances and evidence. We consider complaints on an impartial  basis. 
There is no predisposition to uphold or reject complaints.  They are decided  on their individual 
merits and circumstances.
In conclusion, I am not persuaded,  for the reasons set out above and in my attached 
provisional decision, to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision that Mr Ss 
complaint should  not be upheld.
I note Tilney has offered  Mr S £100 for its failure  to give Mr S timely  information. That sum is 
consistent with what I would have directed had such an offer not been made. It is for Mr S to 
decide whether  or not to accept this offer.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before                                                . 
                                 
Terry Connor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7105477Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the investment performance  of his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) and also the ongoing charges for the level of service he has received. Mr S says the 
charges are unjustifiably excessive.
background
In 2010 Mr S sought advice from Tilney about shares  he had acquired from (employer) .
Mr S's objectives  as detailed in the suitability  letter dated 7 April 2010 was to "maximis e 
immediate tax efficiency  and at the same time shelter invested assets within  a SIPP from 
future capital gains  and income tax". Mr S also wanted to receive income  tax relief on his 
contribution "at the highest rate"  he would pay in the 2009/10.
Tilney recommended that Mr S's objectives would be best achieved by starting a SIPP  and 
contributing £11,200 which would  be "settled by way of a transfer of (employer)  shares to 
that value".
It was also noted that the SIPP would  offer greater flexibility  for Mr S as he could choose 
to purchase an annuity or "follow the route for phased retirement and/or unsecured  
pension".
Tilney further explained that the reason it was recommending a (particular)  SIPP was 
because it was the only provider allowed to hold (employer) shares.
A letter of engagement  was sent to Mr S on 17 February 2011.This  document  detailed  the 
level of services  to be provided. It outlined that Tilney would provide initial  advice on the 
investment (which it had), annual valuations and also respond  to ad hoc requests for 
information.
The letter of engagement  continued that services will be undertaken "in accordance" with its 
client agreement. Section  3.4 of this document further states that there  would be an annual 
management charge of 1% "for the provision of valuations and the ongoing
administration of its discretionary service .
Since early 2017 there have been a number  of email exchanges between  Mr S and Tilney 
in which Mr S in summary asks for clarification on the annual fees received by Tilney  from 
his SIPP and also on the performance  of his SIPP.
Tilney explained that it understood that there were two "trenches of shares  valued at
£11.200 and £17.850, and a total of £30,050 invested in 2010 whose value reverted to nil 
around November 2013".
Tilney said it believed it was this loss which had the significant  effect on the overall return
Mr S was now complaining of. It also said that if the fees and the value of the (employer) 
shares at inception were  deducted  from the contributions made  and compared to the value 
at the end of 2016 growth  of "over 36%" could be seen.
Mr S then complained to Tilney expressing dissatisfaction at the level of charges  applied to 
his SIPP and also about the performance of his SIPP.
Tilney did not uphold the complaint. It said:
Ref: DRN7105477   "With regard to the performance of' the SlPP it provided an analysis  of the 
annual returns Mr S has received since 2010. It was explained that whilst it is 
only an "approximation  but based on the increase within" the pension  fund, "they 
were in excess of 5% per annum after fee deductions".
   It appreciated Mr S would  be disappointed with the return  but it believed the 
return is reasonable considering Mr S's "moderate attitude to investment risk".
   It agreed it did not respond to Mr S's request for information in a timely manner  
and apologised for this.
   It did not agree with Mr S's view on the level of service he has received. It had 
located a client agreement which Mr S signed  in February 2011. This document 
confirmed the "specific services" that would be provided. The section  titled  
"Services" states the following:
"We have agreed that we will undertake the following  services to satisfy  your 
specific financial  requirements as detailed below:
Advise on the investment  of monies  within your pension  plan and general  financial 
planning.
Additionally on an on-going basis we will provide annual valuations and respond  to ad 
hoc requests for information"
It added that although there was no agreement it would provide an annual  review of Mr
S's pension, reviews  were  carried out on 16 April 2013, 22 May 2015 and 21 September
2016. There were also occasions when informal meetings  took place .
It did not believe  the complaint "is justified".  However, it offered Mr S £100 in recognition  of 
the time taken to provide  him with the requested fee details.
Dissatisfied with Tilney's response Mr S referred  his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator concluded that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
Although she said that the investment  performance aspect of Mr Ss complaint was not a 
matter for which Tilney should  be held to account, she did agree with Mr S that the annual fee 
of 1% was not justified by the service provided to Mr S by Tilney.
She concluded that Tilney  ought  to redress Mr S by way of recalculating the value  of his
SIPP from inception as if a fee of 0.5%  annually  had been charged.
Tilney did not agree.  It reiterated  that the fee had been properly disclosed to and agreed by 
Mr S. It added that setting fee levels is a commercial matter between  it and its clients  and 
determining an appropriate  level of fees is not a matter for this service.
As agreement was not reached the matter  has been  referred to me.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am issuing a provisional decision because I do not agree with all the conclusions reached by 
our adjudicator.
Mr Ss complaint has two aspects. First,  he is unhappy with the investment performance of his 
SIPP. Second, that he has been charged excessive fees for the service received.
Ref: DRN7105477In respect of investment performance, I have not seen evidence  to persuade me that opening  a 
SIPP was unsuitable.  It met Mr Ss objectives which were set out in the suitability letter of 7 
April 2010. I am not aware Mr S challenged this letter  and its reasoning.
It is unfortunate  that the original shares Mr S transferred into the SIPP subsequently lost all 
their value. Whilst this has had a significant  impact on the SIPPs  performance, that is not a 
matter for which,  in my provisional view, Tilney should be held to account.
The shares were transferred into Mr Ss SIPP because that was viewed at the time as the most 
tax efficient way of holding the shares given  that Mr S, under the terms of the acquisition  of the 
shares, was obliged to hold them for at least four years.
For the reasons  set out in the suitability letter, and based on what  Tilney knew  at the time, its 
advice to open the SIPP by an in specie transfer  of the shares was not unreasonable.
But even if the advice  was unsuitable,  the shares would presumably have been held by Mr S
either in another investment or directly  by him. But they would still have lost all their value.
So whether  they should  have been held in a SIPP or not does not change the financial 
consequences for Mr S. That the shares have subsequently lost all their value could not have 
been foreseen at the time either by Tilney  or Mr S.
Mr S subsequently  transferred other pension assets  into his SIPP which  were  invested in a 
range of managed  funds.  I have considered the suitability of these other investments held by 
Mr S in his SIPP. I am not persuaded that any of these were or are inconsistent with his 
documented balanced  attitude to risk in later correspondence from Tilney.
I note Mr S has not complained that the investments in his SIPP were unsuitably  advised. It
is their performance with which he is disappointed.  But investments carry an intrinsic risk. As 
documented in the suitability letter the value  of investments  can go down as well as up.
However, performance alone does not determine suitability. Suitable investments can 
underperform and conversely, unsuitable investments can outperform.
However, I appreciate that by holding investments in a SIPP,  Mr S has incurred fees. I agree 
that these appear to be substantial. But this services approach is not to determine the level of 
fees charged by an investment provider. That is a matter for the legitimate commercial  
judgement of the investment provider.
Rather, what we do consider is if the documented services to be provided for the fees have in 
fact been provided and whether or not those  fees were clearly  set out at inception  and agreed  
to by the investment  providers  client.
I have not seen evidence  from Mr S that the services he agreed  to have not been  provided. 
These were  set out in the suitability letter of 7 April 2010 and again, in detail, in a subsequent 
engagement letter  of 17 February  2011,  which Mr S signed on the same date.
In signing  he agreed with the declaration that he understood the terms and conditions  under 
which he was engaging Tilney as his financial adviser.
Mr S says that Tilney  has failed to provide him with full annual reviews.  Tilney says that 3 
reviews were in fact provided between April 2013 and September  2016.  That may or may not 
be the case but the engagement letter makes no reference to full annual reviews.
Instead, it says that annual  valuations will be provided and information on an ad hoc basis.
As far as I am aware, Mr S has not challenged that he was provided with annual valuations or 
ad hoc information albeit  in the latter case,  Tilney has acknowledged  some delays in providing  
this.
Ref: DRN7105477I appreciate Mr S says that the fees charged  for the services is excessive. But the evidence  I 
have seen shows that he has been provided with the services  Tilney said it would provide and 
which Mr S agreed to.
It has offered Mr S £100 for the delays in providing some information  to Mr S. That is 
consistent with what I would have awarded  in similar  circumstances had such  an offer not 
been made.
I have noted that Mr S is an experienced financial professional holding  a senior position within 
a financial services firm. I draw no conclusion from this in respect of Mr Ss pension or 
investment experience.
But I think it reasonable for me to assume that Mr S is familiar with financial documents  and 
would have understood their meaning  or challenged their meaning if he did not understand 
them. I have  not seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr S did so.
It follows that I have provisionally concluded  he understood the fees that would be charged in 
respect of his SIPP and the services  that would be provided for those fees.
In summary, for the reasons set out above I have provisionally concluded  that it would not be
fair or reasonable  to hold Tilney to account for either aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
my provisional decision
I have provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7105477K820x#14
Ref: DRN7105477