K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains National Westminster Bank Plc failed to refund him for transactions he says 
he didnt make. He wants them to refund the transactions and pay him £10,000  in 
compensation.
Background
Mr O has held a current account with NatWest for some time.  In November 2017 several 
transactions were  paid out of his account  on two consecutive days.  The transactions  totalled  
£1,790 and took Mr O into his overdraft.  Four of the transactions  were ATM cash 
withdrawals and one was a withdrawal in a NatWest branch.
Mr O says this wasnt him. He contacted NatWest at the end of October  2017  before the 
transactions took place after receiving a text telling him a new debit card was in the post. He 
rang NatWest as hed not ordered  a new card,  so NatWest  cancelled it. NatWest say the 
card was an active replacement card, meaning  Mr Os original card wouldnt be cancelled. 
Their records show three  attempts to use the replacement card in early November. 
NatWest then sent another card in the post after cancelling the first replacement  card.  It was 
this card which was used to make  the transactions Mr O disputes. Mr O says he was 
unaware another card was being  sent and he never received it. 
Mr O rang NatWest  on 8 November 2017  saying he didnt recognise three withdrawals made 
on 6 November for £500 each. He rang again  the next day to highlight further transactions 
made on 7 November that he didnt recognise. He says he failed to spot the subsequent 
transactions because  of how shocked he was when first realising  money had left his 
account. NatWest misunderstood  Mr O and thought he wanted to dispute another  three ATM 
transactions made on 5 November. Mr O acknowledges  making those withdrawals, so they 
are not the subject  of this decision.
NatWest refused to refund the transactions, so Mr O raised a complaint which they rejected.  
They think  the transactions  were made  by Mr O. They say there isnt an explanation of how 
someone wouldve  known  Mr Os PIN number - and there were  numerous log ins to Mr Os 
online account on the days they were  made.  Unhappy with their response,  Mr O brought his 
complaint to us.
An investigator at our service decided  not to uphold  Mr Os complaint. They thought it was 
more likely than not that he made the transactions. Mr O disagreed  with the investigators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on his complaint, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I disagreed  with the outcome the investigator reached and 
issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Os complaint, allowing both Mr O and NatWest 
an opportunity to provide their responses before I made a final decision. 
My provisional findings were:
Under the relevant  payment services regulations (PSRs),  Mr O should only be liable for the 
payments if he agreed to them  being made. If he didnt, then NatWest should  refund the 
payments.
I agree  with our investigator that the payments were authenticated. NatWest,  as required by 
the PSRs, has shown through their records that the second replacement card was used 
Ref: DRN75065892along with Mr Os PIN to make the withdrawals  at ATMs and in branch. So really what Im 
left to decide is whether I think Mr O agreed  to the withdrawals or not.
Its possible, as our investigator concluded, that Mr O made the withdrawals himself or let 
someone else do so on his behalf. But I think its more likely than not that Mr O didnt agree 
to the transactions.
Mr O says if hed planned  a fraud, it wouldnt  make  sense to ring NatWest and cancel the 
first replacement card after receiving a text message  alerting him to the card being  
dispatched. I find what he says persuasive. It would be unusual  for him to have done  this 
when the fraud couldve  just as easily been performed using the first replacement  card.
Mr O says he didnt order the second replacement card. And other  than NatWest  saying  the 
second card was ordered as a replacement for his original card,  I cant see why this card 
was ordered or that he knew about it. The call Mr O made on 31 October isnt available, and 
Ive considered he couldve asked for a new card to be sent out during this call. But I think  
this is unlikely. If Mr O had planned  to defraud NatWest, I doubt hed have known the 
recording wouldnt be available to contradict what he was saying.
NatWest say Mr O wouldve received another text alerting  him to the second replacement 
card being  sent out  but they havent been  able to show a record of this. I appreciate  this 
may have  happened, but I must also consider what Mr O says could  be true  that he didnt 
know about the second replacement card and only became aware of it on 8 November when 
he says he discovered  the withdrawals.
Ive considered carefully how someone  without Mr Os permission couldve intercepted  both 
the replacement  cards NatWest sent.  Mr O has suggested his post couldve been 
misdelivered to his landlord whose place of business is directly  underneath his flat. 
Im persuaded from the photos Mr O has sent us that its possible his mail has been mis-
delivered to his landlord before. But I think its unlikely the fraud took place this way. The 
unknown third party wouldve needed to make a note of Mr Os PIN in the hope  of 
intercepting cards through mis-delivery.  It wouldve  also required them to have obtained his 
online account security  information.
I think the most plausible  explanation of how someone couldve made the transactions  
without Mr Os knowledge is for someone  known and probably  close  to him to have made 
them. This would better  explain  how someone couldve observed him use his PIN and see 
him access his online  account-  Mr O does  say he uses a shared  computer  at home.  
I understand Mr O may not think this is what happened,  but its something I have to consider 
in order to understand how his details couldve been  compromised without his knowledge. I 
also dont need  Mr O to suspect the withdrawals  were done  by someone close  to him to 
conclude that its more likely they were.
I think this more readily explains why Mr Os account was accessed from IP addresses that 
werent present  on his account prior to the replacement  cards being ordered  because his 
account was being logged  into by someone  else. And it would also explain why funds 
werent withdrawn more quickly than they were  if the funds  were  withdrawn by someone 
close to Mr O, they may have had less opportunity to withdraw  them, than someone 
unknown to him.
Ref: DRN75065893I agree  with our investigator, that it would seem  risky for someone to withdraw  the funds 
from branch for the sum of £20. But I dont think this is enough  to demonstrate  that its more  
likely the withdrawals were made  by Mr O or someone with his permission.
Both Mr O and NatWest have responded to my provisional decision. NatWest have agreed  
to make an offer in line with what I recommended. But Mr O says he should receive more  in 
compensation. He thinks I failed  to account  for the physical, mental, emotional and financial 
distress he and his family were caused by the transactions. He says his housing benefit 
payment was stolen  from him, and he had to borrow from friends  to pay his rent. He thinks  
NatWest sending out the replacement cards was grossly negligent.  And he thinks  theyve 
acted in bad faith and suppressed the recording of the call he made to them at the end of 
October 2017. He thinks not compensating him further encourages them to treat their 
customers unfairly.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Im upholding Mr Os 
complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision. Ive considered carefully 
Mr Os further  submissions, but they havent changed my decision on what  I think  is 
appropriate compensation. Ill explain why.
My role in deciding what I think is fair and reasonable redress,  is to only consider what  is 
appropriate in the individual circumstances  of Mr Os complaint. It isnt to penalise NatWest  
or to consider circumstances  outside of this complaint. Monitoring the conduct  of firms and 
potentially issuing fines is the responsibility of regulators, such  as the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr O and his family were caused distress  and inconvenience  by the 
disputed transactions  taking  place. And Mr O is correct that banks owe a duty to take 
reasonable steps to protect their customers accounts. It isnt clear  why a new card was 
ordered after the first, and it may well have been  a mistake considering the card Mr O did 
have would expire in January 2020. 
But I dont think the actual loss Mr O suffered was a foreseeable  result  of NatWest sending  
out the second replacement card. The person who made the transactions  needed much 
more than the replacement card. They needed  to know Mr Os own memorable PIN and his 
online account details.  And I dont think NatWest  are responsible for the compromise of 
those details. So, on balance, Im not recommending NatWest  pay anything  more than what 
I recommended in my provisional decision.
Mr O raises the subject of historic charges on his NatWest  account causing him financial 
difficulties. Ive not considered this as part of my final decision, as this subject  matter  is 
distinct and separate  to his complaint about the transactions he disputes. If Mr O wants to 
complain about  historic charges on his account,  he may wish to raise a separate  complaint 
with NatWest on this matter.
Putting things  right
Ref: DRN75065894NatWest should  refund the transactions in dispute  to Mr Os balance, plus any interest and 
charges that accrued on his account in relation to them.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Ive decided to uphold  this complaint and direct            
National Westminster Bank Plc to compensate  Mr O in the manner Ive described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7506589