K821x#15Complaint
Miss W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  blocked and then closed  her 
bank account.  And won t release money held in the account to her. She also complains  
about poor service.
Background
Ms W had an account with Halifax. On 26 May 2015, £3,200 cash  was paid into Ms Ws 
account at a branch. A few weeks later, on 12 June 2015, £1,400  cash  followed by a bank 
credit on 10 July 2015, for £1,521.33  was paid into Ms Ws account.
Halifax took the view that it needed  to look into the payments and how Ms W was operating 
her account.  Halifax restricted Ms Ws account  whilst  it carried  out its review. And contacted  
Ms W to ask her about the payments. They explained shed need to attend  branch with 
some identification  before  it could release the money in the account to her.
On 3 and 7 August 2015 Ms W went  into a branch with some identification. Halifax  werent 
happy with the passport Ms W produced and told her she needed to provide a valid 
document before it would consider releasing any money in the account to her. Ms W told the 
bank the cash  payments  were for work  shed done, which shed paid in herself  at branch 
and could be verified if staff checked  CCTV. She explained that because of the nature of the 
work she did it was difficult for her to provide evidence to show  she was entitled  to the 
money. 
Ms W told the bank that the £1,521.33 paid into her account belonged to her friend, who I 
will refer to as Ms A. She said that Ms A had asked her to allow her wages to be paid into 
her account  as she was having problems with her own account. Ms W said she had agreed 
to do this to help out Ms A and provided  Halifax with evidence  including Ms As HMRC 
record, which showed Ms As salary  history including the salary shed received in July 2015, 
which had been  paid into Ms Ws account.
Halifax reviewed the information Ms W had provided. But it wasnt satisfied it showed Ms W 
was entitled to the money. And it wasnt satisfied with the identification  documents  Ms W 
had produced in branch. But it said it was happy  to release the money which  Ms W said 
belonged to Ms A if Ms A attended  a branch. Halifax also decided to close Ms Ws account  
immediately. And moved the money in Ms Ws account into a sundry  account  pending  
further information from Ms W.
Ms W says she then had to leave the UK due to a family bereavement so she couldnt follow 
things up with the bank until some years later in December 2017. To try and gain access  to 
the money in the account Ms W says she sent the bank her original identification  documents 
including an ID card and bank statements, which the bank returned  to her.
In April 2018, Ms W wrote to the bank, saying shed not heard anything  in response to her 
letter and documents shed sent in December 2017. She also included  more recent 
documents showing her address. Halifax responded to Ms W and asked her to go into a 
branch so that it could verify  her identification.  And it said that it couldn t find any trace  of the 
documents Ms W said she had sent to the bank with her letter in December 2017. Given the 
bank s response,  Ms W wasn t willing to provide  anything further  to the bank,  so she 
brought her complaint  to our service where  one of our investigators looked  into her 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN78116382The investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed 
Ms Ws account. But she thought Ms W had done all she could to show  that she was 
entitled to the money in her account. So, she said Halifax should return  the money  to Ms W. 
She was also satisfied that Ms Ws letters should  have prompted  Halifax to review things 
sooner than it did. So, she said Halifax should pay Ms W £300 compensation for the length 
of time it had withheld Ms Ws money  and not responding to Ms Ws letter in December 
2017.
Halifax didn t respond to the investigators view. Ms W accepted  what  the investigator had 
said. But said she had since reimbursed Ms A, so all the money  in the account  should now 
be returned to her. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter came  to me to decide. After  reviewing all the 
evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint reaching a different conclusion to 
the investigator. I said as follows:
The crux of Ms Ws complaint is that she wants the money in her account released to her. 
She says the money belongs to her and she has provided the bank all she can to prove her 
entitlement to the funds. And given the nature  of her work it is difficult for her to provide 
anything further.  Shes also said shes complied with the banks request to go into branch 
and produce identity documents including her ID card and passport. 
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Halifax  has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing  accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations  
Halifax may need to review an account  and/or restrict its customer s access. If Halifax  didnt 
comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
In order to meet these  requirements Halifax is entitled to ask a customer  for more  
information about how they use their account, including  payments which are made into an 
account. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to 
see if the bank  has made  any mistakes  and then put the customer  back  in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake  hadnt happened.
From looking  at how Ms W normally operated  her account, the £3,200  and £1,400 cash 
deposits were quite unusual. Prior to the deposits  Ms Ws account balance  was £20. So, I 
don t think its unreasonable for the bank  to block an account if a relatively  large amount of 
money is paid into it. Halifax wanted to be sure about where the money had come  from. And 
that Ms W was entitled to it. So, it asked Ms W for information about  the payments. Halifax  
has explained that this was its standard  procedure, and I accept  that it was. So, whilst I 
accept this caused Ms W inconvenience,  I cant say Halifax  treated her unfairly when it 
blocked her account.  And asked her for information to show she was entitled to the money. 
As part of its security checks and to meet its legal obligations Halifax have to verify the 
identity of those  operating  accounts with them. And its entitled to put processes in place to 
ensure it meets its regulatory obligations.  Its for Halifax to determine what  will be 
acceptable as proof  of identity. Ive looked  at the information provided by Halifax and seen 
the documents Ms W provided. Having  done so I understand  why the bank had concerns 
and werent able to verify the documents  Ms W provided. 
Ref: DRN78116383It maybe that Ms W can now provide more information about the money  paid into her 
account to the bank.  And is also able to provide  verifiable identify documents.  But, from 
looking at all the available evidence, I can understand  why Halifax  wanted to know  more 
about the funds that were paid into Ms Ws account. I can understand too why it didnt 
consider Ms W had adequately explained  her entitlement to the money. And hadnt provided 
sufficient identification.  So, I cant say the bank  has treated Ms W unfairly  when it decided  
not to release the money to Ms W. And I wont be asking the bank to do so. 
Having reached  this conclusion Im mindful  that this matter has been  ongoing  since 2015 
and that the matter has no doubt caused  Ms W upset  and frustration  but I can see that the 
majority of the delay  is because Ms W is yet to provide identification documents which the 
bank is able to verify.  
Ive then considered  whether Halifax acted reasonably when asking Ms W to attend her 
local branch to remove the block  and release the funds. Halifax  have explained that there 
are occasions where identification checks need to be made  in person. And that their fraud  
team classified this as one of those occasions.  So, while I do understand Ms Ws 
frustrations about  the fact, she had to provide information in branch, I dont think  I can say 
this is unreasonable.  The difference between the information Ms W provided via the post 
and in branch  was Halifaxs ability to confirm Ms Ws identity against the information she 
provided in person. So, I cant say the bank  did anything  wrong  when it asked Ms W to go 
into branch.
service issues
Halifax says it never  received the letter Ms W wrote  to the bank enclosing copies of her 
identification documents and proof  of her address. But I think its likely that the letter was 
received. I say this because, Ms W has provided  this service with copies of the letter  and 
proof of postage.  Shes also provided a copy of the letter she received from the bank, 
stating that her original  documents  were  being returned to her. Halifax s records also show  
that it did receive a letter  from Ms W in December 2017. So, I think its likely the bank did 
receive Ms Ws identification. But I haven t seen any evidence  that the bank responded to 
Ms Ws letter at the time. 
Due to the banks lack of response,  Ms W went to the trouble of sending  the bank another  
letter on 9 April 2018, chasing Halifax about what was happening with the money in her 
account, along with further  copies of her identification documents.  Halifax responded to 
Ms W and told her she needed to go into branch. It also told her that it couldnt find any 
trace of the documents shed sent to the bank  in December 2017, which based on the 
evidence Ive seen  wasnt correct. So, I can understand why Ms W was confused  and 
frustrated especially as she had to wait four months  for a response to her first letter.  I do 
think Halifax couldve  at the very least engaged  with Ms W earlier to find a way forward.  So, 
Im satisfied Ms W has been caused some unnecessary distress and inconvenience  by 
Halifaxs lack of response.  And Im currently  minded to say Halifax should pay Ms W £100  
compensation. 
account closure
I then turn to the banks decision to close Ms Ws account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking  facilities to any 
particular customer.  Unless there s a very good  reason to do so, this service  wont usually 
Ref: DRN78116384say that a bank  must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer  who has had 
their account  closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing  an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice,  but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case  
Halifax closed Ms Ws account without notice. In my view that was reasonable given the 
concerns the bank  about how Ms W was using  her account. I can also see that on 
31 July 2015,  the bank  notified Ms W about  the closure of her account and she went  into 
branch on 3 August 2015 to withdraw  her balance. So, it was entitled to close  the account as 
it has already done.
So subject to any further representation or evidence from Ms W or Halifax  my provisional 
decision was not to partly uphold  Ms Ws complaint  and direct Halifax  to pay Ms W £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shed experienced as a result  of the bank not 
responding to Ms Ws correspondence.
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision.  Ms W didnt. In summary, she said that the 
compensation doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset shes suffered as 
a result of the bank s actions. And that Halifax had given our service misleading information  
about her complaint. She also said that shed recently attended a branch with identification, 
but the bank had still refused to release  any funds  to her.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint  should  be partly  upheld, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, which I have reproduced above, and which now 
form part of this final decision.
Im not persuaded by the additional comments Ms W has made, but I will make some  further  
points on Ms Ws response to my provisional  decision.
I accept Ms W feels that the amount of compensation I awarded in my provisional decision 
doesnt go far enough to reflect the amount of trouble and upset shes suffered. But its 
important to note that it isnt the role of this service to punish or fine businesses for their 
mistakes or standard of service. I know Miss W wont agree but I think £100  is a reasonable 
reflection of what went wrong and the impact  on Ms W  which was the result of Halifax  not 
responding to Ms Ws correspondence
Ms W has also said that Halifax misled this service in the information  it provided when weve  
looked into her complaint.  Ive not seen  any evidence to support  this. Whilst I do recognise  
her concern,  as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what  both parties say 
and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what  we have  
done in this complaint. If Ms W  does not agree with our view, she does not have to accept it, 
and if she does not accept this final decision, she will be free to continue to pursue her 
concerns by other means  should she wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise her on how to 
go about doing that.
Ref: DRN78116385Finally, prior to issuing  my final decision I asked the investigator to contact the bank 
regarding what Ms W said about going  into a branch recently. However, the bank  could find 
no evidence that Ms W had visited a branch. So, Im unable  to comment on this further.
In summary,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain  of the view that 
this complaint should be partially upheld for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I partially uphold  Ms Ws complaint 
against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Ms W £100  for the trouble and upset caused by the 
bank not responding to Ms Ws correspondence.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2021.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7811638