K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the settlement offered by AA Underwriting Insurance  Company 
Limited (AA) for a claim she made  on her home insurance.
Background
Mrs M was having some  alteration  work  done on her shower in her bathroom.  The plumber 
found water  leaks in two locations which had caused damage to the floor, walls and 
bathroom units.
AA was contacted  and a claim was opened.  It was explained to AA that Mrs M was 
vulnerable due to her age and disability, and that plumbers were  already on site and able to 
complete the work.
AA said that the work could continue, but it would  send  out its surveyor to assess the 
damage. In the meantime, Mrs M was advised  to take photographs of the damage and the 
work. She also retained the materials removed from the bathroom so they could be 
examined by the surveyor.
The surveyor attended eight days later.  His view was that the water leaks were caused by 
poor workmanship during  installation,  and this meant the claim should be refused. He also 
said some  of the bathroom fittings had been replaced by new ones when they could have 
been reused.
Mrs M only claimed for one of the leaks, on the basis that she was replacing the shower  
anyway, so decided  not to claim  for this. She just claimed for the damage caused by a leak 
from the toilet plumbing.
AA declined the claim on the basis  that it was caused by faulty installation. Mrs M appealed, 
and the claim was reconsidered. AA decided it would settle the claim, but offered only what it 
calculated it would have  paid its own contractors, had they carried  out the work. This was 
substantially less than what Mrs M had been charged for the work by her plumber.
Mrs M complained to AA about the settlement. AA maintained that the settlement offered 
was final, so Mrs M complained to our service.
Our investigator thought that AAs offer was unfair. She thought that AA should pay the 
amount on the plumbers  invoice, for the repair work  caused by the leak from the toilet, 
minus the cost of the materials the surveyor thought could have been reused. 
AA didnt agree. It said it hadnt given Mrs M authority  to carry out the work  and had not told 
her it would settle the invoice. AA also said it had a local contractor available, and should 
have been given the opportunity to carry out the work itself.
I issued a provisional decision on 06 May 2020. In my provisional decision,  I said:
This claim  is for damage caused by an escape of water from the plumbing  connecting  the 
toilet in Mrs Ms bathroom. AA is not disputing the validity of the claim.  What is disputed, is 
the settlement.  AA says it should only pay what it would have paid its own contractors,  had 
they carried out the work. Whereas  Mrs M is claiming for the amount invoiced by the 
plumber who actually  completed the work.
Ref: DRN71276772Having looked  at everything, I dont agree with the findings of the investigator. I think AA 
needs to settle  the full invoiced amount, minus the policy excess. Ive explained why I have 
come to this provisional decision  below.
The damage that is being claimed for was discovered during planned refurbishment work  to 
Mrs Ms shower. The claim  was opened on the same day, and it was explained to AA on the 
phone that Mrs M was elderly,  vulnerable  due to disability, and that her workmen were 
already on site.
I have listened  to this call. I think  it is clear that the damage needed sorting  quickly, given 
Mrs Ms vulnerability and that she only had one toilet. AA said it needed to send out its 
surveyor to assess the claim. 
I think it is important to note here that AA was aware  Mrs Ms workmen  were  on site. Given 
this, I think it would have  been reasonable for AA to give clear  instructions as to what Mrs M 
(and her workmen) should or should not do in relation to the damage, the necessary 
immediate remedial work and the actual repair. The only advice given was to take 
photographs of the damage  and repair work.
The surveyor did not come out until eight days later. And Mrs M (her representative)  had to 
chase him several  times on the phone.  I think this is unreasonable, especially given Mrs Ms 
vulnerability. By the time he did attend  much of the repair work had been completed. But the 
workmen had taken  several photos  during the work.  And the stripped-out materials had been 
retained in a skip, so the surveyor was able to see these.
In response to the investigators view, AA said it should have been  given  the opportunity to 
use its own available local contractor to complete  the work. And as such it would settle  the 
claim to reflect what it would have  had to pay had it done so. I think  this would have been a 
fair and reasonable position  to take had AA said this was what  it wanted  to do at the outset. 
But I havent seen  anything to suggest  this happened then or at any time during  the period of 
the works.  Had Mrs M been told that AAs local contractor was available, I think, as is 
standard practice in insurance claims, Mrs M would have been given a choice to either use 
AAs contractors or her own,  on the understanding that AA would probably only settle the 
claim for what  its contractor would have charged. But this didnt happen.
So, I think it is fair and reasonable to settle the claim using the invoice  submitted  by Mrs Ms 
plumber. However, in the surveyors  report, he says that some of the bathroom materials  
should have been reused and not replaced  during the work. And that any settlement should  
not include these.  I have considered this. Again, I refer back  to the initial  call when the claim 
was lodged, and also the subsequent calls over the following  days. At no point have I heard 
AA give Mrs M, or her workmen,  advice  or instructions about  the scope of their work. Or tell 
her if anything undamaged is removed it should be reused. Mrs M was just told to take 
photographs and to retain everything  for inspection, which she did, in a skip. So, I do not 
think it is fair for AA to settle  the claim without these items included.
So, I think AA should settle Mrs Ms claim for the full cost of her plumbers invoice, minus the 
policy excess.
Ref: DRN71276773I have also considered the distress and inconvenience Mrs M has been caused  by the 
problems during the claim, and the delay in settlement. It is true to say most of the calls and 
work has been done by her daughters, and I cant consider the impact this has had on them, 
only on Mrs M herself. This is because only Mrs M is eligible to complain to us. But I do think 
it likely  that Mrs M has been caused  some  distress, as she is aware of what  her daughters 
have had to do, and all the calls and emails they have made  on her behalf. And the delay in 
settlement has also meant  her savings have been cleared. And all of this, I think, will 
probably have  caused  her significant distress. So, I think it is fair and reasonable to 
recognise this, by AA paying her £300 compensation.
The response  to my provisional  decision
Mrs M accepted my provisional findings.  She said she had paid the builders invoice in two 
instalments; £1,600 on 18 March 2019  and £1,550.31  on 4 April 2019.
AA didnt respond.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mrs Ms response to it.
As neither Mrs M nor AA have disputed  my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart  
from the outcome  I set out in my provisional  decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided AA Underwriting  Insurance Company Limited 
should settle Mrs Ms claim by paying her the full invoice price  of £3,150.31 minus  the £500  
policy excess.  I also require them to add eight percent  simple  interest  to this amount, 
calculated from 4 April 2019 to the date of settlement.
I also require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs M £300  in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  the claims process has caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7127677