K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked a transaction on his card and then failed to 
deal properly with his complaint about this. Mr F further complains that when he asked to 
close his account,  Lloyds Bank PLC failed to act on this promptly  and continued to write to 
him as if he were still a customer. 
background
Mr F tried to make a transaction  using  his card, but it didnt go through. He called Lloyds, but 
didnt pass the security checks. Mr F asked to speak to someone more  senior  about  this but 
Lloyds wouldnt let him and said he had to go in to the bank in person with his identification.  
Mr F didnt  think  this was necessary and said he had no intention of attending the branch.
After that, Mr F told Lloyds that he wanted  to close his account, but he says despite this, he 
encountered further difficulties, which led to considerable  trouble and upset. In summary, he 
made Lloyds  aware of the following issues:  
they had sent him further  cards;
whilst  his card was blocked or should have been blocked, somebody  else had 
managed to use it to make a transaction;
hed been  sent an account  statement and a letter telling  him about a change  to the 
terms and conditions;  
information on his account had reappeared on his on-line banking;  and 
he was concerned about how his calls had been handled. 
In response, Lloyds  said that they are obliged to stop a transaction  if theyre not sure that its 
been carried out by the account holder. And they said they needed  to make sure they were  
dealing with their customer  when carrying out the security checks.  
In relation to the extra cards that were sent Lloyds accepted that they had sent these.  They  
also explained that a statement was already in production before the account was closed 
and that Mr F might  continue  to receive information for a period after an account is closed. 
 
Lloyds refunded the transaction  that had gone  through on the card and they accepted that 
overall their customer service could have  been better than it was. Because  of that it paid    
Mr F £135 to cover  any trouble and upset  hed experienced  and a further £20 to cover his 
costs in contacting the bank. 
  
Our investigator thought that the amount that Lloyds  had offered was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and didnt recommend that Lloyds needed to do anymore, but Mr F 
didnt agree. 
So the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  was entitled to block the card and ask for more  information. The 
Terms & Conditions make this clear (B2.5) -  
Ref: DRN72949392 
We may cancel or suspend use of the card, refuse  to replace or reissue a card, or 
refuse to authorise a transaction if  we believe it is necessary  as part of our 
procedures to prevent  fraud or misuse of cards. You may be asked for further 
information, including proof of your identity, when we are asked  to authorise a 
transaction
Unfortunately, Mr F failed the checks,  and needed to visit a branch with his identification.   I 
realise this wouldve been inconvenient but I can understand why, given that Mr F hadnt 
passed the security  checks over the telephone, Lloyds would want  to see him in person with 
his identification.  
I agree  with Mr F that the level of service on some of the other issues he has told us about 
was poor.  For example,  he wouldve been concerned to get another card and see a 
transaction go through after hed been told his card was blocked and understood the 
account closure to be underway. But in deciding this complaint I must consider what the 
bank then did to put things right and whether thats  enough in my view.   
On this point, I can see that Lloyds  has said sorry for some  of the shortcomings and theyve 
paid Mr F compensation.  In terms of the compensation  that they have paid, although I can 
see that Mr F was frustrated and worried by what happened,  I think  that what  Lloyds has 
paid is fair and reasonable  Im satisfied it recognises the trouble Mr F was put to and 
addresses the costs  he incurred in having  to contact the bank. 
I know that Mr F will be disappointed by this so Id like to reassure him that I have thought 
very carefully about everything hes said and provided. But I dont think that Lloyds needs to 
do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7294939