K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the way Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA)  and its agents responded 
when he asked for assistance  under  his home  emergency insurance policy,  which  was 
underwritten by IPA.
background
In October  2018 Mr A had a leak from under the sink in his bathroom. he asked  for 
assistance under his home emergency  policy, and IPA arranged  for a plumber Ill call P1 to 
attend. Mr A complains,  in summary,  that:
P1 didnt  phone  him at least 30 minutes before its plumber was to arrive as it had 
agreed. He had asked for this as his wife who worked nights might  be asleep  and not 
hear the door bell;
P1s plumber told Mr As wife that the leak had been isolated and they would return 
to complete a repair. In fact they had disconnected the sink waste  pipe and taken 
away the trap underneath the sink;
when he called IPA to find out when  P1 would return, he was told that IPA wouldnt 
authorise the repair as it wasnt covered under his policy;
when he returned  home later that evening, he found water had leaked from the 
bathroom above through his kitchen  ceiling damaging that ceiling. He says this was 
because his wife had taken a bath,  and waste water from the bath had escaped  out 
of the disconnected  sink waste  pipe. He says P1 hadnt warned them  not to use the 
bath while the sink waste pipe was disconnected;
he phoned P1 and IPA to complain and to try to get someone  to attend without 
success;
the next morning he spoke again to IPA. It said P1 had refused to return  to his house  
and it would arrange for another plumber to attend; and
IPA arranged for a second plumber Ill call P2 to attend that day. They  said they 
would need to order parts, including a sink trap which Mr A says P1 had taken away. 
The following day P2 returned and completed the repair  of the bathroom  sink waste 
and trap.
Mr A complained to IPA. It apologised that P1s plumber hadnt phoned before he arrived  at 
Mr As property.  It said P1s plumber had advised  Mr A to isolate the water  supply to his 
home to avoid further damage, but Mr A had declined this as this would have left them 
without facilities. It didnt  accept responsibility  for the damage  to his kitchen ceiling. It said 
there would always  have been  some  damage from the leak from the sink before Mr A called 
IPA.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He pointed  out that 
Mr As policy  only provided emergency  assistance.  So it provided help to make his home 
safe, but not to have repairs carried out to fix the problem. IPA needed  to stop the leak, 
which it did, but didnt  need to replace parts to stop leaks reoccurring. In this case  IPA had 
authorised P2 to cover the cost of repairs to the sink waste  and replacement parts as a 
matter of goodwill.
There was disagreement  between Mr A and P1 about what  was said on P1s visit. And P1 
denied having  taken the waste trap from his house. In the absence  of any further evidence  
the investigator couldnt say what had actually happened.
Ref: DRN77238552Neither P1s nor P2s records mentioned  carrying out any work on the bath. The leak 
reported was from the bathroom sink. So he couldnt  say IPA had caused water  damage to 
his kitchen ceiling.
IPA had confirmed  that if Mr A needed  to use the policy again, and asked that P1 didnt 
attend, IPA would send another plumber  instead.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators recommendation.  So this complaint  has been passed  to 
me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
IPA has apologised  that P1 didnt phone ahead to say when  he would be arriving, as Mr A 
had asked. And it has said on any future claim under the policy it will send a different 
plumber from P1 if Mr A asks for this at the time.
There is disagreement about what was said by P1s plumber  and Mr As wife to each other 
during the first visit. P1s service record note,  which seems  to have been signed by Mr As 
wife, says:
Arrived on site shown to bathroom - customer explained my husband tried to tighten the nut 
and cracked it - waste needs replacing  - customer requests we do this when her husband's 
home
Mr A denies  he tried to tighten the nut. He says his wife was left with the impression that P1 
would return shortly to complete the repair. He says P1 took away the waste  trap under the 
sink, but P1 denies this.
In the absence of any other evidence, it isnt possible for me now to say what  was said 
between P1s plumber  and Mr As wife. Under  the policy terms, IPAs obligation was to stop 
the leak and make the property safe. It didnt  have to repair  the damaged sink waste. 
However it did arrange for P2 to attend and repair  the sink waste as a matter of goodwill. So 
I cant say it did anything  wrong in the way it dealt with Mr As claim.
Mr A has supplied  photos showing damage  to the kitchen ceiling. However it isnt clear  how 
or when  this damage occurred. Mr A says it was caused by waste  water  from the bath 
coming out of the sink waste pipe which P1 had left unconnected to the sink and uncapped.
Neither P1 nor P2 in their records  mention any issues  with the bath or doing any work  in 
connection with the bath waste. Given the way bathroom plumbing  normally  works, like the 
investigator I find it difficult to understand how waste water from the bath would  find its way 
out of a sink waste  pipe.  So Im not persuaded that IPA is responsible for the damage to    
Mr As kitchen  ceiling.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and 
make no order  against  Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Ref: DRN77238553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7723855