K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) have mishandled their travel 
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  due to go on holiday on 5 May 2018, but unfortunately missed their 
departing flight as a result  of traffic caused by a gas tanker fire on the motorway,  which  left 
them stuck  in their vehicle for over four hours.  Mr and Mrs Bs tour operator attempted  to find 
other ways  for them to fly to their destination,  but found no feasible option,  so they 
abandoned their trip and submitted a claim under their travel insurance policy with UKI. 
UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs B explaining that there  was theoretically no section  of the policy  
that their claim would fall under, but that it would  consider the claim regardless under the 
missed departure section  of the policy,  which provides cover for up to £1,000 per insured 
person. Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy  with this, however, as this did not cover  the total cost of 
their holiday.  So they requested that their claim instead be considered under either the 
curtailment or catastrophe sections of the policy  which would provide cover for up to 
£5,000 per insured person. 
UKI refused to consider  Mr and Mrs Bs claim under either of these sections, as it said that 
they had never reached their destination,  and because the circumstances of their claim did 
not meet the requirements  of these insured perils. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that UKI had correctly  assessed the 
claim as a missed departure and didnt consider  that it fit the requirements to be covered 
under either the curtailment or catastrophe elements of the policy. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
curtailment
The definition of curtailment is described  in the policy as cutting short your journey after its 
commencement to return to your home address or business address. Mr and Mrs B submit  
that the circumstances  of their claim fit the above definition of curtailment such that their trip 
should be treated  as having been curtailed, as they were on a journey that was cut short  
after its commencement whereby they had to return to their home address. But certain facts 
seemingly fitting a particular definition within the policy does not mean  in itself that a claim 
should be paid under that section, as the overall circumstances of the claim must also satisfy 
the particular requirements of the policy. 
There are two potential heads of cover under Section E of the policy relating to curtailment, 
which Mr and Mrs B maintain are more  appropriate  for their claim to be considered  under. 
The first is curtailment due to early return which sets out that:
We will reimburse up to £5,000 per insured person, for
Ref: DRN70331602a)Unused travel and accommodation  expensesdue to
1.Death or serious  injury or illness
2.You or a travelling companion being required
a)for jury service in the UK
b)as a witness in a court of law in the UK;
c)to return home following a serious  burglary, fire, storm or flood at your home  
address or usual  place of business  in the UK which occurs  during the journey.
3.The Foreign and Commonwealth office  advising against All travel or All but 
essential travel to your destination, providing  the advice came into force  after your 
departure date.
In Mr and Mrs Bs case, they returned  home as theyd missed  their flight  due to heavy traffic 
caused by a vehicle fire on the motorway  which  does not satisfy  any of the above  
requirements for a claim to be made  under curtailment due to early return.  So I dont 
consider that UKI have unfairly  failed to consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim under this section.
The second  element of curtailment in which Mr and Mrs B submit  their claim should be 
considered is catastrophe  cover, which sets out:
If, during your journey, you can no longer stay at your pre-booked and prepaid 
accommodation or are unable to return to the UK by your pre-booked  and pre-paid 
method of travel because  of
-fire
We will pay you up to £5,000 per insured person  for the necessary extra  travel  and 
accommodation expenses  to allow you to continue your journey to a similar  standard  as 
you had pre-booked,  or if you choose to return to the UK, we will pay you up to £5,000 
per insured  person for your unused travel  and accommodation expenses
There is no more expansive definition  of the term catastrophe within  the policy other  than a 
list of events that could  be deemed  as such  earthquakes, hurricanes and volcanic 
eruptions, for example.  But Mr and Mrs B claim that the fire on the motorway was a 
catastrophe given the disruption it caused.  But irrespective of whether such  an incident could 
ever be regarded as a catastrophe in the truest  or likely intended  sense of the word  in this 
context, I dont consider  the claim to fit the requirements of this section  in any event.
I say this because  it is a condition of cover  that the potential catastrophe occurs during your 
journey. The term journey  is defined by the policy  as: a journey that begins  at your home 
address during the period of insurance  that is outside the UK, or within  the UK where you 
have paid to stay in pre-booked  commercially operated accommodation  for two or more  
consecutive nights. So although I accept that Mr and Mrs B were on a journey to the airport  
in the physical sense (that began and ended at their home address)  they do not satisfy  the 
requirement of being on a journey as per the policy, as it was neither outside  the UK nor 
within the UK where they were  due to stay for two or more consecutive nights in pre-booked  
accommodation. 
Ref: DRN70331603The wording  of this section also makes it apparent that it is intended to cover  circumstances 
and events that occur after the policyholder has arrived and is already staying at their 
destination, as its a requirement that you can no longer stay at your pre-booked and 
prepaid accommodation or are unable to return to the UK as a result of the catastrophe. I 
think it would  be a rather strained and unreasonable interpretation of the policy wording to 
say that Mr and Mrs B couldnt  stay at their pre-booked  accommodation  as a result of a 
catastrophe, as I consider  that it was actually  the missed departure  that was the primary 
cause of them being unable to stay at their pre-booked accommodation.  
So, given that it was the missed departure that appears to be the overarching cause of 
Mr and Mrs Bs loss in these circumstances, I dont  think UKI have acted unreasonably by 
assessing their claim solely under the missed departure element of the policy,  as it does not 
reasonably fit the requirements of any of the curtailment sections of the policy.
I think it worth pointing  out that, strictly speaking, UKI wasnt  contractually liable to indemnify 
under the missed departure section either, as that only covers the costs of additional  
accommodation, travel expenses,  meals and refreshments if the policyholders  fail to arrive at 
the departure  point in time to board due to (amongst  other things) heavy  traffic  or road 
closures. And because  they simply returned home, Mr and Mrs B werent claiming for such 
additional costs  but for the existing  costs of unused travel and accommodation. Accordingly, 
as UKI paid more  than it had to, its hard to conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Jack Ferris 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7033160