K820x#14Complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Northern Bank  Limited (trading as Danske Bank) wont  refund a 
series of transactions on her account that she says she didnt make  or otherwise authorise.  
Background
Over a period  of approximately two months  towards the end of 2017, there were a series of 
ATM withdrawals made from Miss Ls account. These withdrawals  were  made  outside  of the 
UK, in the country Miss L was staying in at the time. She told us that she was recovering 
from a broken foot, so they couldnt  have been  made by her. She contacted Danske Bank  to 
say that shed been the victim of fraud.  Danske Bank  investigated the transactions  but said it 
wasnt willing to refund them.
It said that each transaction was carried out using Miss Ls genuine card and would have 
been authenticated by chip and PIN. Miss L hadnt been able to explain how anyone  else 
couldve come  to know her PIN. She said she hadnt shared it with anyone  and didnt write  it 
down. Danske said it thought Miss L had authorised the withdrawals.
Miss L was unhappy with the response  she received  from Danske Bank and so she referred  
the complaint  to this service. It was looked  at by an investigator who didnt uphold  it. The 
investigator similarly noted  that it had been Miss Ls genuine card that had been used for the 
transactions and that her PIN would need  to be entered correctly each time.  
The investigator concluded that these  withdrawals were likely  made  by someone else 
because the card was repeatedly used to withdraw  money when the daily withdrawal limit 
had already been reached.  Miss L was aware of the limit and the investigator thought  it 
unlikely shed continue  to attempt the withdrawals.
However, the investigator concluded that, as Miss L hadnt written down her PIN and hadnt 
lost her card, it was unlikely that these  transactions were carried  out by a fraudster. The 
investigator thought  the most  likely explanation was that it was someone known to Miss L 
and that shed authorised them to do so. Miss L disagreed with the investigators opinion and 
so the complaint has been referred  to me to come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its difficult for me to know with any certainty  what happened when these withdrawals were 
made. When the circumstances surrounding  a dispute are unclear or the evidence is 
contradictory, I need to reach a decision on the balance  of the probabilities.
The basic  position  is that Danske Bank can hold Miss L liable for the disputed payments  if 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made  them or authorised them.  
Danske Bank has been  able to show that each disputed transaction  was carried  out using 
her card.
Its not been able to show that the chip was read for each individual payment. These 
withdrawals were made in a country  where its possible for payments to be authenticated 
Ref: DRN72061032without the chip being read. But Danske Bank  says it doesnt authenticated payments in this 
way and has provided evidence to show its systems dont allow this to happen.  For that 
reason, Im persuaded  that its more likely than not that each of these withdrawals  was made 
using Miss Ls card and that the PIN mustve been  input correctly.  
But that on its own isnt enough for it to hold Miss L liable. I need to consider whether the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that she consented to these transactions.  I think  
theres a good  chance that it wasnt Miss L who carried out them  out. But I find it unlikely that 
they were made by someone unknown to Miss L. I say that because  shes said that she 
doesnt have her PIN written down and that the card never  left her possession during this 
period. If the card had fallen into the hands  of a fraudster, it wouldnt be of much use on its 
own unless they also knew Miss Ls PIN. In addition, as Miss L doesnt believe the card was 
ever out of her possession, it wouldve needed to be returned frequently,  after each use over 
a period of weeks  in order to avoid detection and I dont think that would be realistic. 
Miss L has speculated that there  may have been technical  errors with the ATMs and this 
might have resulted  in legitimate transactions  being  duplicated. But Ive looked at her 
account statements  and I cant  see anything to suggest that this was the case. I recognise 
how strongly Miss L feels about this case and how disappointed shell  be with the decision 
Ive reached. However, in view of the available evidence, its my final decision that its more 
likely than not these  transactions were carried out with Miss Ls authority.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7206103