K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains about the level of service she received from Aegis Financial Planning 
Limited (Aegis). She says that she agreed  with Aegis that it would provide her with advice 
about her Spanish  investments and existing  investments. However  this advice has not 
materialised. Miss N says that Aegis has charged  her fees for provision of services she has 
not received and deducted fess in relation  to investments that it did not recommend. She 
says she has not received  any tangible advice from Aegis that would justify  its fees.  She 
believed she has been misled and mis-sold. 
background
Miss N complained to Aegis but it did not uphold her complaint. In summary it said:
Miss N had signed a Letter of Engagement with its adviser  at their first meeting and 
this outlined its fee and charges. The initial fee agreed was 2.5%. There  was also a 
Sanlam Proposal Acceptance form which set out the charges involved including 
those made by Aegis. This was signed  by Miss N.
Regarding the Sanlam  investment,  Miss N had been referred to Aegis by another 
financial adviser and it was after research by their adviser that Sanlam  was decided 
to be the best investment. This was set out in a Suitability Report.  
Its adviser had negotiated a discount  on Sanlams normal management charge from 
1% to 0.6%. Review meetings took place on 15 June  2017 and 30 August 2018  and 
there was considerable correspondence  and discussions between  her and its adviser 
over time about her financial affairs. It said a considerable amount of time had been 
spent on Miss Ns financial  affairs, and reviews had been carried out in line with its 
Letter of Engagement. 
Miss N was aware of all the fees and she could  have cancelled  the agreement  at any 
time.   
Miss N referred her complaint to this service, and it was considered by an investigator. He 
did not uphold  the complaint. He said that Miss N was referred to Aegis because her 
portfolio/requirements were wider than Sanlam could provide. And he believed it was 
reasonably clear that the Aegis adviser was considering more than just the existing Spanish 
portfolio. He thought the fees were disclosed and that they included  a fee in respect of the 
Sanlam investment. He said that he thought the ongoing advice fee had been made clear 
and regular reviews  and service had been  provided for this. 
Miss N did not agree  and referred to a Sanlam document dated 30 June  2016  titled 
Investment Proposal. She said this only refers to an Advisory Managed  Service  not a 
Financial Planning level of service.  She believed the Sanlam  investment  was being made 
through/with the Sanlam  adviser and was shocked  later to receive notification of the Aegis 
charges in its suitability  report. She never agreed  to this. 
The investigator remained of the view that the complaint should not be upheld  and so the 
complaint has been asked  to me for review. 
Ref: DRN71761472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm that I have considered all the submissions that have been made but I will not 
address every issue in this decision. I will discuss what I believe is material to the outcome.
introductory and ongoing management fees by Aegis.  
Miss N says that Aegis  was retained to advise her on her Spanish Equity bond, other 
Spanish investments  she had made  previously on the advice  of other  financial  advisers  and 
future investments. 
When she met with the Aegis adviser  Miss N says she told the adviser  that she was going to 
invest a sum with Sanlam   as discussed  already with a Sanlam adviser. As she had already 
agreed this with the Sanlam adviser  she did not wish the Aegis adviser  to review this or 
comment on it. But she was charged  around £3,800 in relation to new Sanlam investments. 
Miss N also says she did not wish the Aegis adviser to give any advice regarding her cash 
ISA or small private pension. 
When she noticed the fees she says that the Aegis  adviser said,  at the time of her 
appointment, that this fee was going  towards her managing her other investments in future.  
She says her understanding was the 2.5% initial fee would be for future  investments and her 
existing investments, not anything already agreed  with the Sanlam  adviser. 
Miss N says that the Aegis adviser did not given  her any advice on the Sanlam investment in 
the following  years  and did not discuss it with her or review the performance with her. She 
said she discussed what shares to hold in her ISA portfolio with the Sanlam adviser and they 
would make any necessary changes. Nothing  was done in this respect with the Aegis 
adviser and yet an annual fee was taken for managing the portfolio. Plus, she said that the 
Aegis adviser has been receiving double the fee that Sanlam charge for managing  the 
investment.  
As to the review meetings  in 2017  and 2018,  Miss N says that the meeting in 2017 was an 
informal chat over coffee - there was no agenda,  follow up, notes and no recommendations. 
In addition, the review  meeting of 2018  was not a review meeting  it was a meeting to 
discuss the issues she complains of now. 
As discussed earlier, Aegiss  version  of events  is very different and it says considerable work 
was carried out and the Sanlam investments were part of a much wider  portfolio. It says that 
its adviser did consider  the proposed Sanlam investments and reviewed  their suitability 
against other options.
I have considered the Financial Planning Report  that the adviser completed for Miss N. This 
included a recommendation for a Sanlam  General  Investment  Account (GIA) and a Sanlam 
ISA investment/transfer.  The report included a number of reasons why the investments  were 
being recommended.  It also set out that an initial or entry adviser  charge would be made of 
2.5%, plus an ongoing charge of 1% a year. I appreciate that the document  supplied has not 
been signed by Miss N. 
Ref: DRN71761473I have also seen a Sanlam Investment Proposal dated 30 June 2016. That sets out it is 
prepared by the Sanlam adviser in association  with  the Aegis  adviser. This concerns a 
Sanlam adviser management service  and set out that that Miss Ns financial adviser  is the 
Aegis adviser (not the Sanlam adviser). The Sanlam adviser  Miss N refers to in her 
complaint is discussed  as being Miss Ns Advisory  Portfolio Manager. The document  set 
out that the proposal was made following a meeting with the Aegis adviser. 
The proposal said that after a discussion with the Aegis adviser and a risk assessment, Miss 
N was considering transferring the assets  held within an ISA, and a GIA for management in 
accordance with her risk profile. These would be managed by her portfolio manager  (the 
Sanlam adviser Miss N refers to), with regular  contact to decide  on any changes to the 
assets. It is set out that that Sanlam:
will endeavour to work with your financial adviser  (Aegis adviser) , on your behalf  to better 
understand your broader circumstances and objectives. This allows  for ease  of 
administration, flexibility of objectives  and you may agree with him an overall strategy to 
ensure all aspects of your wider  wealth are being  looked after.
The ongoing  fee to the Aegis adviser  of 1% was set out in the document.  
The Scope of our Service set out:
Where we provide  advice  to you this will be defined  by the FCA as 'restricted advice'. 
Providing 'restricted advice' simply means  that we will not provide advice on the whole range 
of Retail  Investment Products such as life policies and pension schemes (where we are not 
authorised to provide advice). We will, however, select  from a wide range of suitable 
investments. Where we have our own in-house  funds  we may choose to only provide advice 
on our in-house funds, where  these are suitable for the client.
If you have been  introduced  to us by a financial  adviser,  that financial adviser will be 
responsible for the recommendation to invest with Sanlam Private Investments (UK) Ltd.
A letter was sent to Miss N on 18 July 2016.  This confirmed the appointment of Sanlam 
(Private Wealth) to manage the money  invested in Sanlam investments. This set out that a 
2.5% fee would be paid to Aegis.  Miss N signed this document on 12 August 2016. 
However, I do note that Miss N had made a handwritten comment on the letter/acceptance 
with respect to the 2.5%  fee. In brief, Miss N wrote  that she remained unhappy with the 
charge (and that to be made for the ISA transfer). She wrote that for reasons she had 
explained to the Sanlam  adviser and the Aegis  adviser, she was prepared  to accept the 
charges on the basis that they would  be used in the most part to fund the work  being done 
by Aegis  in respect of her other investments in her portfolio  and financial affairs in general. 
The Aegis adviser has commented on the complaint. They have said that Miss N did not 
indicate at their initial meeting that she had already  decided to invest  with Sanlam. She was 
of the understanding that Miss N wished for her to advise her what to do with the money  and 
they also discussed a transfer  of Miss Ns ISA, as well as her pension.  The fees were 
discussed at the meeting. The Aegis adviser  says that the recommendation was given after 
researching the market. She also says that regular  assistance and updates were given to 
Miss N and the 2017 review meeting was a proper  review lasting about 2 hours. She says 
the 2018 meeting did not proceed as planned  because of the presence of a third party  and 
discussions regarding the issues  raised  in this complaint. 
Ref: DRN71761474I believe it is clear  that the Sanlam  adviser  (actually a portfolio manager) and the Aegis 
adviser had different roles. The Aegis  adviser was to provide services with respect to the 
entirety of Miss Ns investments (and general financial situation) and the Sanlam adviser  
was to manage the specific assets within the Sanlam investments. The two were 
complementary and I do not believe there was duplication of roles. It seems that Miss N was 
introduced to the Aegis adviser because the Sanlam  adviser he could not give the breadth  of 
advice that Miss N required (which his position  would indicate  he could not). 
In terms of the fees themselves, the evidence is that Miss N did agree  (albeit  reluctantly) to 
those fees. There  are clearly very different versions of events about what  the initial fee was 
for. But the Suitability Report does set out that a formal recommendation was being given as 
to the Sanlam investments and why it was thought  they were suitable  investments. As I say, 
Miss N did agree to the fees, which  are set out in several documents, including those of 
Sanlam and Aegis. 
It would seem that Miss N agreed to those  fees on the basis that she would be supplied  with 
further service and advice  by Aegis   but she says this was not forthcoming.  Even  if that was 
the basis of the acceptance of the fee (which the Aegis adviser  clearly  disputes), I do believe 
that further assistance and service was provided.  There is evidence in the form of notes that 
several financial issues were discussed at the review meeting in 2017 and that the Aegis 
adviser was reviewing current investments and advising  Miss N more  generally on financial 
issues. There are also fairly extensive  notes  from the time the Sanlam investments were 
made in 2016  about Miss Ns financial situation  and intentions. In addition there is 
correspondence during the period the Aegis adviser  was appointed about several issues  
such as tax planning on current investments and actions necessary concerning an existing 
investment which  was not suitable for a UK resident.
In summary  I believe that evidence is that the fees were made clear and Miss N accepted 
them on the basis of the service that Aegis was then to provide. Furthermore I have  not seen 
evidence that Aegis  charged these fees without providing a reasonable level of service and 
advice. A 1% annual  fee is not out of line with the level of fee charged for ongoing service. 
Therefore I do not believe the complaint should  be upheld. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N 
anonymised name here] to accept or reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7176147