K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to reject  a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr O reported an incident to his insurer, esure. In April 2018 Mr O said he was driving his 
car when  he lost control of it due to an uneven  road surface. He said that his car was driving 
perfectly immediately before the incident,  but after the incident the gearbox was damaged. 
Mr O wanted esure to claim for the repairs to his car from the local authority. 
esures engineer  and an independent assessor (IA) both reported that there  was insufficient 
evidence that the repairs needed to Mr Os car were  caused by an impact.  esure told Mr O 
that he was free to obtain an independent report at his own cost. If this report said that the 
damage to his car was caused by the uneven road surface and it accepted  the report, esure  
would reconsider his claim. 
In July 2018 Mr O provided a cash sales invoice from a dealership  garage.  This gave details 
of the damage  to Mr Os car but it didnt conclude as to what  caused it. So esures  decision 
didnt change.
Mr O asked us to look at his complaint. The adjudicator didnt find there was enough 
evidence to support  Mr Os claim that the damage to his car was impacted  related.  
Mr O didnt agree. So the case  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr Os policy  with esure says that it will pay to have his car repaired if its been  damaged  but 
it excludes wear and tear. This is a standard term which Ive seen in most motor  insurance 
policies. 
I understand how strongly Mr O feels about  his complaint. He said that his car was working  
fine before  the incident. He said the IAs inspection was limited  and he didnt know the 
circumstances of the incident  beforehand.  However,  from the evidence available,  I cant 
conclude that esure  has acted unreasonably.  
Key information from the report provided  by an IA says the following:
The purpose of my inspection was to determine if the vehicle had suffered underside  
damage resulting  in damage to the transmission. Special attention was paid to the 
underside of the vehicle whilst  on a ramp. I found  no evidence of impact damage to 
the underside  of the vehicle..
Ref: DRN70328042I reviewed  the reports from (dealership garage  name) relating to the failure of the 
clutch dated the 4th of May 2018 and leaks from the steering rack dated  24th of May 
2018. The reports pay no reference to the damage being consistent with an impact  
as alleged, only the failure of the clutch and slave  cylinder.
As the damage is in my opinion the result  of an internal mechanical breakdown  of 
the clutch, I consider that you (esure)  have no liability in this matter. If your insured  
should authorise his own repairs and it is found that the damage is consistent with 
the incident we will revisit the claim.
I contacted  your insured  to inform him of my findings, he did not agree stating after 
he flew through  the air the gearbox came out of gear and he had to force the vehicle 
back into gear to proceed with driving.  He is therefore insistent that the damage  has 
been caused by this action and it must be covered  under the terms of his policy.  
I can advise there was no significant damage  to the road wheels consistent with 
impacting a pot hole or similar poor road surface.
I think esures decision to place more weight on the report provided by the IA when deciding 
how to proceed with Mr Os claim was reasonable. esure told Mr O that if he could obtain  a 
report from the dealership  which said that the damage to his car had been  caused by an 
impact on an uneven  road surface or pot hole, it would reconsider his claim. And it would 
consider looking  to recover the costs  from the local authority.  But from what  it had, there 
wasnt enough to pursue  a claim as there was no evidence that the damage was caused by 
such an impact. 
esure reviewed an invoice Mr O provided from the dealership garage in July 2018. However 
this didnt provide  a report as to the cause of the damage to Mr Os car. 
So taking everything into account, I think esures  decision  to reject Mr Os claim was reached  
reasonably and in line with the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7032804