K820x#14complaint
Miss M feels that Barclays  Bank UK Plc has treated her unfairly in relation  to a transaction 
with a secondary ticketing  platform.
background
Miss M says she made a transaction with her Barclays debit card to purchase tickets through  
the ticketing platform  for a concert.  She says they were  due by midday  on 7th September but 
arrived after this time.  She says she refused  to accept  delivery  of the tickets  because they 
had someone elses  name on them and so she thought shed be refused entry to the 
concert. She also said that the face value was £87 not £2959  (that she paid).
Miss M contacted Barclays who temporarily credited the amount paid to Miss Ms account 
and it carried out a chargeback. Soon afterwards Barclays  provided documents from the 
ticketing platform to Miss M and asked  her to respond within ten days. Barclays says as she 
didnt respond  in time so it then redebited the amount  for the tickets  from her account. 
Miss M complained to Barclays and it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
Miss M, unhappy with Barclays  position,  complained here. The investigator  thought  the 
position taken  by Barclays regarding the chargeback  was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so Barclays didnt  have to do anymore. Miss M doesnt agree. So this 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only considers the merits of Miss M complaint about Barclays. This decision is 
not about the actions of the ticketing platform.
Miss M and Barclays do not entirely agree as to what has happened in this complaint 
particularly regarding the ticket purchase. So I have to consider all the evidence available 
and decide, based on the balance of probabilities. In other words what I think is more  likely 
to be the case.
The chargeback process  is administered by the card provider and provides a process for 
financial services companies  to recover funds for its account holders in certain situations. I 
should stress that this process  is not a right for consumers to go through.  
In this case Barclays put the chargeback  to the ticketing platform. The platform  responded to 
Barclays chargeback  with four arguments.  It said all sales are final according  to their terms 
and conditions; that the payment process  is entirely  managed by the ticket buyer (Miss M in 
this case);  that the payment details provided  are genuine and that it delivered  the tickets  to 
Miss M, but she refused to accept  them on delivery. 
Miss M has noted that the tickets  she purchased  were 8x (eight  times) the face value, so I 
have considered the secondary ticketing platform sales process. It is in essence:
The buyer (Miss M in this instance) selects the event and date they want  the tickets  
for. Then  they select how many  tickets and which tickets  they wish to get. 
Ref: DRN72453722Once the buyer has selected the number of tickets, the position of the tickets  at the 
event and price per ticket the buyer then has to provide personal information  to 
proceed. At this stage  the number of tickets  that have been selected and the price 
are shown.  But it includes a note to say that some further costs arent included. That 
is tax, booking fee and delivery fee.
The buyer (Miss M in this case) then has to choose the mode  of delivery  of the 
tickets and payment  method. The platform then asks for the payment details. Once  
these details are input, the next page  is the final page where the final price  is 
displayed at the centre of the screen in bold. The buyer has to scroll down beyond  
this to complete  the purchase.
Miss M has always  said that she completed  the transaction but says she didnt know that the 
face value of the tickets was less than what she paid.  However  based  on what she has said 
and the evidence available Im satisfied  she entered the details of her debit card with a view 
to purchasing the tickets. 
Ive considered the process Miss M would have gone through.  On balance Im satisfied that 
when Miss M was putting in her payment details the full price was shown. I appreciate  at the 
start of the process the full price isnt shown.  But when putting in the payment  details  the 
final price is shown and it is also shown on the final page when the buyer  (Miss M here) 
completes the transaction.  Thus, on balance,  Im satisfied that Miss M did consent  to the 
transaction and she did authorise it at the amount  she paid.
As a consequence of this it follows that Barclays was entitled to charge that transaction  to 
Miss Ms account with it. And I see no persuasive reason for it to refund this transaction  as I 
dont think Barclays has done  anything wrong in applying  the transaction to Miss Ms 
account.
Similarly, when Miss M took the issue to Barclays, I can see it considered the matter and 
specifically the chargeback process. Our approach is that a card issue  such  as Barclays  
should attempt  a chargeback where there is a realistic prospect of success in doing so. 
Barclays went through the chargeback  process  and the platform responded as Ive 
described. In October 2018 Barclays wrote to Miss M saying it had temporarily refunded  
the transaction amount  to Miss M whilst  it looked  into the matter. Ive looked at the address 
used for this letter and Im satisfied Barclays didnt make a mistake here. It then wrote to 
Miss M in November setting out the platforms position to the chargeback. In this letter it said 
Miss M had ten days to respond  if she remained unhappy with the position the platform had 
taken. Similarly  I dont  think Barclays  made a mistake with this letter.  After  not receiving  
anything from Miss M (and giving her more than the ten days in the letter)  Barclays reversed 
the temporary refund out of Miss Ms account  as it considered  the chargeback process 
closed.
Ive considered this decision  by Barclays and I dont think  it has done anything  wrong.  
Miss M accepts she paid for the tickets  at the time she bought them  on the platform. The 
platform has responded to the chargeback setting out its position  to the chargeback.  This 
information within this is largely consistent with Miss Ms position about  buying the tickets. 
So I dont  think Barclays did anything wrong by closing its process regarding this 
chargeback.
Miss M says that the tickets she refused had somebody elses  name on them. But the 
platform said that didnt  make a difference to their validity. And as Miss M never  took them 
Ref: DRN72453723and didnt attend the event then we dont know whether  she would have gained entry or not. 
But the key test here is did Barclays  do anything  wrong when considering the platforms  
response to the chargeback. Its clear  that the platform is a ticket reselling platform  and 
Barclays provided the position of the platform to Miss M and she didnt respond.  Based on 
what Barclays knew it decided not to take the process further through  the chargeback 
process. I dont think Barclays did anything wrong with regard to the chargeback.
In Miss Ms response to the investigators  view she has repeatedly  pointed  to what  she says 
the platform did wrong. But I must emphasise  that Barclays isnt responsible for everything 
that platform (or any merchant) does. It is only responsible  for what it is responsible for. As 
this was a debit card transaction it is only responsible for considering a chargeback when its 
customers ask it to and if it does a chargeback it needs to do so properly and fairly. It did the 
chargeback and the platform  responded. Barclays put this to Miss M in writing and Miss M 
didnt respond  in time. So Barclays reversed the temporary refund and didnt take the 
chargeback further.  I think this is fair. And the tickets  were  delivered  to Miss M in time to 
attend the event.  But she refused to take delivery of the tickets. That decision doesnt sit with 
Barclays.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Miss M has said.  I appreciate how Miss M feels 
about the whole situation. All in all I dont think  it fair for Barclays  to have to do anything  
more. As a consequence  this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  27 April 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7245372