K822xcomplaint
Mrs P has complained about a reviewable whole  life policy W.W. & J. McClure (McClure) 
arranged for her to repay a lifetime  mortgage she took out in September  2006 to purchase  
her council house under her local authoritys right-to-buy scheme. Shes been assisted in 
making this complaint at times by her son, Mr P.
Mrs P says she was given to understand at the time that the policy was conditional on being  
granted the mortgage. As she was elderly, and on state benefits,  she couldnt afford the 
monthly policy premiums and Mr P agreed  to pay them. When  the policy was reviewed in 
2016, the monthly premium more than doubled. Also, she now understands the policy was 
optional and, had she known this in 2006,  she wouldnt have taken it out.
Mrs P has requested a refund of all the premiums she has paid to the policy, plus interest, as 
well as compensation for the financial worry meeting the cost of this policy has caused  her.
background 
As the financial services  part of McClure  ceased  to be registered to give investment advice 
from June 2015,  it took the decision to destroy  all files it held relating to financial advice 
given to clients more  than six years ago. These  included the file which documented its 
dealings with Mrs P over the policy. So there  is no record  from 2006  of her personal  and 
financial circumstances at the time, or a copy of a suitability letter the adviser would have  
produced setting out his reasons for arranging the policy.
Based on the submissions made  by Mrs P in her complaint, in 2006, she was aged  70, living 
in local authority accommodation off a basic state  pension of £100 per week,  plus housing  
benefit and pension credit. Altogether, her income gave her little disposable income after 
essential expenditure.
It seems  Mrs Ps late husband  had received a compensation lump sum for an industrial 
injury of which she still held approximately £34,000 on deposit.  But, as these  savings 
affected her housing benefit, she took the decision  to buy her council house  with these 
savings, a loan from Mr P and a lifetime mortgage for £25,220 at a discounted price  of 
£67,000.
We have obtained  a copy of Mrs Ps mortgage agreement, which  confirms  the mortgage  was 
an interest only loan,  repayable  in 40 years time or on Mrs Ps earlier death. The lender  
took a legal charge over the property and the loan was repayable within  18 months  of her 
death or the lender took possession of the property unless the beneficial owner wished to 
negotiate a mortgage for the outstanding amount owed. There was no obligation for Mrs P to 
have taken out a life assurance policy as a condition of borrowing - she was only required to 
take out buildings insurance. 
The interest rate charged on the loan was 0.95 per cent above Bank of England base, which 
was 4.75 per cent at the time. As base rate is now 0.75 per cent, the current  rate of interest  
is 1.70%. In 2018,  Mr P reduced  the outstanding balance of the loan to £19,625. 
   
As the term of the mortgage  was essentially open-ended, McClure arranged  for Mrs P to 
take out a reviewable whole life policy, providing life cover equal to the amount borrowed on 
a maximum sum assured basis; i.e. the highest  possible  cover  at the lowest possible 
monthly premium of £59.84, for the first 10 years. The policy was reviewed in 2016 and the 
Ref: DRN79076742product provider confirmed that the monthly premium needed to increase to £122.21 to 
support the existing  level of life cover. The premiums were  invested in the Safety fund, the 
lowest risk-rated  fund.
According to the will Mrs G made in 2006, she bequeathed to Mr P her interest  in the 
property and the proceeds of any life insurance policy proposed  or to be proposed on my 
own life to assist  in the repayment of any mortgage over said property. The policy 
arranged for Mrs P by McClure wasnt written in trust for Mr P. 
Mrs P replaced this will in 2013 in which she bequeathed the property to Mr P. But her new 
will makes  no mention  of a life assurance policy to clear the balance of the mortgage.
The complaint was investigated by one of our investigators, who felt it couldnt be upheld. 
Initially, he concluded that the limited  evidence available  from the point of sale in 2006  would 
have indicated to Mrs P that the policy was reviewable and that the monthly premium  was 
likely to increase after 10 years to maintain the same  level of cover. Given he age and 
financial situation at the time, the cost of the policy would have been important to her and it 
was set up on the basis that she paid the minimum possible premium in the first 10 years for 
the level of cover she required fully to cover the mortgage.
Therefore, he couldnt recommend that Mrs P should receive  a refund of premiums.  And, if 
she had opted  for a non-reviewable policy, the monthly premium would have been  
substantially greater from outset, so there would be no premium  shortfall to refund.
The investigator did remind Mrs P that McClure had offered  to pay her £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the distress  and inconvenience  she has been caused in this matter and he 
recommended her to accept it.
In response, Mrs P and Mr P disagreed at length  with the investigators assessment, making 
the following  points:
Mrs P was told that the policy was a condition of the mortgage and she needed  
to take it out to obtain the loan;
she was given limited  information on the product at the time and couldnt make use of 
the cooling-off period.  She only received a summary of key facts  with very limited 
information and a cancellation  form in February  2007 (six months after taking out the 
policy). She might not have taken out the policy at all if shes  received full information  
as to how it operated;
she didnt receive complete documentation  until it was provided  by the policy  provider 
in 2017 under its complaints procedure;
Mrs P didnt  request  life cover for her mortgage. But, in any event, she wasnt 
told about any other products on the market  to decide what  form of cover would 
have been most appropriate at a premium  she could afford. She ought to have 
been referred to other life assurance  products in fairness under the Equality Act 
2010;
she wasnt advised that the policy would half in value  or that, the longer she 
lived, the less it would cover her mortgage.  She also wasnt  made aware that 
premiums could  double  at review;
Mrs P didnt  require the policy anyway, as she had a policy  with another  
provider which guarantees to pay the full sum assured on her death.  The 
adviser didnt think  this was suitable to cover  the mortgage and she was told 
Ref: DRN79076743she required  a separate policy;
She thinks the policy shouldnt have been sold to specifically cover a mortgage  
as that is not what its designed  to do. It is designed for inheritance tax 
planning;
in responding  to her complaint about  the outcome of the policy review in 2016, 
the provider expressed concern at a whole life policy being  sold to protect  a 
mortgage. It agreed to cap the policy increases at 10 per cent on review;
McClure is unable to provide her the documentation it holds surrounding the 
sale of the policy.  It was inappropriate to delete its file for a policy that is still in 
force;
Mrs P points  to newspaper articles about  this type of product failing to provide 
life cover policyholders  had originally requested;
she had been  told the policy would protect her mortgage. But she wasnt  made 
aware that the terms of the policy were  beneficial only if she died before  the 
first review. The adviser insisted the product would be of benefit to stop the 
mortgage debt passing to her family;
Policies such as this have been widely mis-sold.  She has no faith in it and 
thinks it may not pay the death claim anyway;
at the point of sale, the adviser knew she couldnt afford the original monthly  
premium as she received  a basic state pension and benefits, which is why the 
mortgage was arranged on a pension credit  guarantee. So Mr P paid the policy  
premiums;
Mrs P didnt  require the policy as she bequeathed the property in her will to 
Mr P who would  have been  content  to continue funding the outstanding 
mortgage and she also entered into a legal agreement with him that enabled 
him to buy the property  from her at any time;
Mrs P has requested a full refund of premiums, plus interest, which  will enable Mr P to 
repay the mortgage in full.
After further consideration, the investigator expanded his previous view to say that:
as well as taking  into account the law, relevant  guidelines  and good  industry  
practice, where theres a lack of information  or a dispute about the facts, he based 
his conclusions on what we think is most  likely to have  happened;
the policy is a reviewable whole life plan, designed to pay out on Mrs Ps death 
whenever it occurs. At outset, the level of cover and monthly premiums are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including  the future  cost of life 
cover and investment  performance,  that arent  known at the start;
the policy is reviewed  regularly to check how its performing against  the original 
assumptions. But, at each review, the insurer also needs to make new 
assumptions about the cost of cover  and investment performance in the future. At 
the review in 2016, Mrs P was required to pay more to maintain the same  level of 
cover to repay the mortgage loan;
the policy was not conditional on Mrs P obtaining  the loan; it was recommended to 
her so the property  could be passed on to Mr P mortgage-free on her death;
McClure has provided details of its sales process  at the time, which included an 
explanation of the benefits of all the options available and the chance of a 
substantial increase in premiums.  It seems that the policy was set up on a basis  
that required the minimum possible premium. But Mrs P was on a modest income, 
plus state benefits, and the premium was paid by Mr P. As such, he didnt think  the 
policy was entirely  appropriate  for her to fund.  Also,  he hadnt seen enough 
Ref: DRN79076744evidence that the prospect of the monthly  escalating at review was prominently 
pointed out to her at the time;
but, given  Mrs P was buying her council house  with a loan which wasnt  being  
repaid, the likelihood  is that she wouldnt want ownership of the property to pass to 
the lender. So, some kind of protection policy would have been important to ensure 
the property passed to Mr P on her death, free of debt;
Mrs P has said the policy was appropriate  for inheritance tax (IHT)  planning, and not 
to cover a mortgage. But, while this type of policy  is sold for IHT purpose,  it is 
suitable to protect an interest-only mortgage  with an open-ended term;
the premium for a non reviewable  whole-of-life policy was usually much more 
expensive and, given  Mrs Ps financial circumstances, its most likely that she would 
have opted for the much less expensive  reviewable policy;
on balance,  he thinks the mortgage  provider would have insisted on Mrs P having 
life cover  for the loan given her personal  circumstances. And, while he appreciated 
that Mr P has said he would repay the outstanding balance  of the loan if the policy  is 
cancelled, this doesnt seem  viable because theres no guarantee funds will be 
available when  theyre needed.  Repayment  of the mortgage would be dependent  on 
the circumstances of all the individuals involved at an unknown point in time;
while Mrs P has said she already held another life assurance policy, the adviser was 
correct to say that it was inadequate as its benefits were  very modest and would not 
have covered the mortgage loan;
there was no evidence to suggest  the policy wouldnt pay a death claim, as Mrs P 
feared, as long as the premiums are paid and the claim  conditions of the policy  are 
met;
although Mrs P has contacted the industry regulator about  the reviewable  whole 
life market generally, for the purposes  of this complaint, we need  to consider her 
individual circumstances  and whether  or not the policy  was correctly sold to her. 
while the policy may not have been entirely  suitable with regard to suitability, Mrs P 
did have need  for life cover to protect  the mortgage. The offer from the policy 
provider to limit premium increases at review  to 10 per cent is a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve this situation. And it ensures that Mrs Ps cover continues  at the 
lowest possible cost.
Otherwise, the investigator  maintained  that the offer from McClure of £200 for any distress 
and inconvenience  Mrs P may have suffered resolves this complaint fairly  and reasonably. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint had been referred to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can see that Mrs P has made  many  points in response  to the investigators view, Ive 
confined my assessment  to the issues shes raised that materially  affect the outcome of her 
complaint. 
     
Also, its important to emphasise that I decide the complaint on the evidence  thats  available 
as to why Mrs P took out this policy  and whether it was appropriate  for her to do so. If that 
evidence is conflicting  or lacking,  I consider whose  version of events is the more  likely on the 
balance of probabilities. 
Ref: DRN79076745Whether or not it was fitting  for McClure in 2015  not to retain records  of its dealings  with 
Mrs P in 2006, I can only work with the evidence  that does exist. This includes a copy  of the 
mortgage agreement, details of Mrs Ps policy and her policy  application, and the wills she 
made in 2006  and 2013. But I havent  been  provided a copy of the legal agreement she 
refers to that enables Mr P to purchase  the property from her at any time to know how that 
sits with the provision in her original will for Mr P to inherit the property outright.
For completeness, Ill briefly address the points raised by Mrs P that I dont think impact 
directly on the outcome  of her complaint, as follows.
The Product Particulars  Notice  (including Mrs Ps statutory  right to cool-off)  was issued by 
the policy provider  direct to her. Theres no evidence to suggest it was in some  way withheld 
from her by McClure,  and the Notice will have  given her full details of the policy and the 
statutory right to change her mind  without penalty, as any other  applicant  would have been 
granted.
I cannot see how McClures dealings with Mrs P in 2006 have in any way breached  the 
provisions of the Equality Act 2010  and Mrs P has not explained how the advice she 
received from McClure  has disadvantaged  her under the provisions  of this legislation.
A reviewable whole  life policy is not just appropriate as a means of mitigating Inheritance 
Tax. Its also suitable to provide family protection, and to repay an open-ended  loan or debt 
in the event of a borrowers death.  A reviewable policy would be considerably less 
expensive than a non-reviewable  plan that guaranteed a fixed level of life cover at the 
original premium. Whether a reviewable  policy was suitable for Mrs P would depend  on 
whether the policy  was written on terms that were  appropriate for her financial circumstances 
and objectives.
Briefly, the Personal Assurance  Plan Mrs P took out is a reviewable whole life policy  which 
provided life cover of £25,220 at an initial monthly premium  of £59.34. As the policy was set 
up on a maximum sum assured basis, the premium was the lowest  possible to guarantee 
this level of life cover for 10 years. Thereafter,  the policy would  be reviewed to see if the 
monthly premium could continue to support  the sum assured based on the current  value of 
the policy and the providers assumptions about  mortality experience,  when Mrs P was 
expected to die, future expenses, and future  investment  returns.
Most of the monthly premium to a policy written on a maximum sum assured basis  would 
be devoted to the provision of life cover, with little of it invested.  As such, the original level of 
life cover of £25,220  would  probably need to be adjusted  after 10 years if there was a 
shortfall in the policys fund value at review when  compared to the present value of £25,220 
discounted back at an assumed rate of return from the date Mrs P was predicated to die. In 
this event, the monthly premium would need to increase to enhance the policys future fund 
value to meet a potential claim.  
Im aware that Mr P also complained to the policy provider about the outcome of the review 
in 2016 which required her to increase the monthly  premium from £59.84  to £122.21 and I 
can see that it offered  to cap the review increase to 10 per cent. The monthly premium is 
now £65.82, which would  be subject to further review in February 2022.  
But, as the provider wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy,  this offer was made in 
response to Mrs Ps complaint about  the operation and outcome of the policy review, and not 
the advice she received  in 2006. 
Ref: DRN79076746Notwithstanding the above, Ive addressed the specific  complaint Mrs P has actually made  - 
that she was led to believe in 2006 that the mortgage was conditional on her taking out the 
policy and she would  not have taken it out if it was optional and she had fully appreciated  
how it worked.
Regrettably, a suitability letter the adviser  would have provided Mrs P at the time, 
explaining his reasons  for setting up the policy for her, isnt available.  
But I do have a copy of the mortgage agreement,  which  states:
a lifetime mortgage is a special type of loan which is usually designed to run for the rest of 
your life..We have based this offer on a term of 40 years and this is an interest only 
mortgage, which means that you have to make  monthly payments to [the lender] until the 
lifetime mortgage is repaid. The amount you owe will stay the same  over the life of the 
mortgage unless  fees or charges have to be added and is usually paid back  from the 
proceeds of the sale of your home after your death. Any money left over would be paid to 
your beneficiaries. 
In taking a legal charge over the property, the lender confirmed that it:
has the right to take legal action  to repossess your home  and sell it if, in the event of your 
death, the property has not been sold within a period  of 18 months by the executors of your 
estate
Accordingly, the mortgage agreement  required Mrs P to take out buildings  insurance, but not 
life cover.  On Mrs Ps death,  unless  alternative  arrangements were made to repay the 
outstanding loan, the lender would expect  the executors  of her estate to sell the property.   
So, Im inclined to believe that the adviser informed Mrs P that a life assurance policy was 
strongly recommended and was not a condition of the loan.  
McClure also assisted Mrs P in making  a will, which bequeathed her interest in the property 
and the proceeds of any life insurance policy proposed or to be proposed on my own life to 
assist in the repayment of any mortgage over said property  to her son, Mr P. This 
suggests to me that Mrs Ps intention was to leave the property to her son free of debt on her 
death.
While I appreciate Mrs P did revoke this will in 2013,  and her new will makes no mention of a 
life assurance policy  to clear the balance of the mortgage, this will doesnt  reflect  her 
intentions at the point of sale in 2006.
For this reason, Im inclined to believe that Mrs P was recommended by McClure to take out 
a life assurance policy to ensure the mortgage would be repaid on her death  without  the 
executors selling the property, the lender taking possession of the property or Mr P himself 
needing to take a mortgage at that time.  As such,  I dont  think  this was an unsuitable 
recommendation in principle.
So, the issue to consider  is whether  Mrs P was provided this life cover  in a form that was 
appropriate for her financial  circumstances  and objectives at the time.
Ref: DRN79076747The lifetime  mortgage  was an interest only loan with, to all intents and purposes given 
Mrs Ps age, an open-ended  tem. As such, life cover needed to be provided by a policy for 
life, and not by one with a fixed term. Otherwise, there would have been a risk of life cover 
expiring while Mrs P was alive and the loan was still outstanding. I also think its reasonable 
for me to assume that Mrs P intended  to live in the property until she died.       
The policy she was advised to take out provided  life cover of £25,220 in the first 10 years at 
the lowest possible premium. Mrs P could have  died at any time in that period and the policy 
proceeds payable  to Mr P under her will would have enabled him to repay the mortgage in 
full. I accept that the premium of £59.84 was probably unaffordable to Mrs P, and that Mr P 
was persuaded  to fund the monthly premium. This seems reasonable in the circumstances 
given Mr P ultimately would benefit  from the policy. And, although  the policy is owned by 
Mrs P, it doesnt matter who pays the premiums and it seems  Mr P was willing  to do so 
(albeit in the belief, it seems,  that Mrs P was obliged to take out the policy as a condition  of 
the mortgage).  But, in my view, the evidence that exist tells me the policy was arranged  for 
Mr Ps benefit to ensure the property was left to him free of debt whenever Mrs P died.
As the policy was reviewable, the adviser  needed  to balance the probability of a claim in the 
first 10 years  (when  the premium was at its minimum) and Mrs P surviving  the first 10 years  
when, at age 80, he ought to have known that the premium  might increase substantially. As 
theres no record of the advisers dealings with Mrs P at the time, I dont know the extent  to 
which he explained the operation of this policy other than through the Product Particulars.
Ordinarily, I would have  questioned whether the policy was appropriate for her in terms of 
affordability, but for Mr P agreeing to fund the policy  premiums. And, given the policy  needed 
to provide cover for life, I cant see what alternative type of policy could have  been  
recommended given Mrs Ps objective  in 2006 was for Mr P to inherit the property free of  a 
debt that would remain fixed throughout her life.
As Mrs Ps latest will doesnt make  provision for the policy  proceeds  to be paid to Mr P on 
her death,  it now might  be prudent for the policy to be written in trust for his benefit, if that 
remains Mrs Ps intention. She might wish to consider contacting  the policy  provider to 
arrange this. That doesnt mean the policy was incorrectly set up in 2006 when it was her 
intention for Mr P to inherit the policy proceeds.
Ive noted that Mr P reduced the outstanding  balance of the mortgage to £19,625 in 2018, 
which would be consistent with the objective  of him inheriting the property with no mortgage 
attaching when Mrs P died. But, when  the policy was recommended in 2006,  theres  no 
evidence that this objective would  be met by Mr P repaying the outstanding balance of the 
loan from his own resources. As this seems to have become the objective since  2006,  it 
cannot be held against the adviser  for recommending the policy  to meet  her intention for the 
loan to be repaid  when  she died and the property  passed to Mr P debt-free.
And, while Mrs P also says she made an agreement with Mr P that he could buy the property 
from her at any time, this too appears  to have been made after 2006.  If this agreement 
required Mr P to pay her the market  value of the property (which I assume would then be 
paid into her estate and distributed  accordingly),  this would appear to compromise  the 
provision in her will that he would inherit the property outright and receive an equal share of 
her residual estate as well. As I havent been  provided a copy  of this agreement, I cant  
appreciate what advantage  Mr P gains from it over receiving the proceeds of the policy.
Ref: DRN79076748In the meantime, given the mortgage reduced to £19,625, Mrs P could correspondingly 
reduce the level of life cover under the policy.  Ordinarily, this might reduce the monthly  
premium but for the policy provider agreeing to cap the review increase at 10 per cent. But 
the reduced level of life cover may help to offset  any review  increase that might  be 
necessary in February 2022. In any event,  to-date, Mr P has still paid significantly less 
premiums to the policy than it provides in life cover. 
Also, I think its worth  mentioning with regard to affordability that, in 2006, Mrs Ps monthly 
interest payments  to the lender would have been around £120.00. With the reduction in the 
loan to £19,625, and in Bank of England base rate since 2006, her interest payments will 
now be approximately £92.00 per month less, at approximately £28.00 per month.
Mrs P has commented that, if it was advisable for her to take out life cover to protect the 
mortgage, she already  held an appropriate policy in 2006 with another  provider. But this 
policy provided a very modest level of cover  that was inadequate  for the mortgage she 
arranged.
I do accept that this complaint is finely balanced due to the lack of evidence surrounding 
Mrs Ps dealings  with McClure  in 2006.
But, all things considered,  I dont think McClure would  have insisted  that the policy  was a 
condition of the mortgage. In all likelihood,  it recommended the policy to Mrs P in 2006 
because the evidence at that time suggests she wanted to leave the property to Mr P free of 
any mortgage on her death. While Mr P seems  to have taken steps some time later to 
reduce the outstanding balance of the loan, theres no evidence from 2006 that this was how 
the property was intended to be passed to him debt-free.        
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
I make  no award other than I recommend Mrs P accepts the offer originally made by 
W.W. & J. McClure of £200 for the upset  she says shes suffered in this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7907674