K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) and further  damage occurring to his home after he reported  a leak, and that RSA then 
rejected his claim. 
Reference herein  to RSA includes its agents  and contractors.
background
Mr H has a HomePlan emergency policy underwritten by RSA.  RSA is therefore ultimately 
responsible for claims under the policy which is why my decision is directed to it. The policy  
covers his central heating  system, central  heating boiler, boiler replacement, plumbing and 
electrics. It also includes  an annual service.
Mr H says that on or around  20 May 2018,  RSA phoned him to remind  him that his annual  
service visit was due. During  that call, Mr Hs partner told RSA that there  was a leak that was 
noticeable on their bathroom ceiling. The boiler is in the loft above. RSA suggested that this 
could be looked  into at the same  time as the annual service. 
Mr H says that during  that call, his partner  mentioned that they would be going abroad for 
three months from 12 June. An appointment was made for the boiler to be serviced and the 
leak investigated on 29 May.
Mr H says that on 29 May an RSA engineer serviced his boiler,  and hes provided a service  
sheet with that date.   He says the engineer didnt address the leak,  but he arranged  for 
another engineer to come the next day. The service sheet dated 29 May however says 
Leak on condensate  fixed   monitor. Mr H says the engineer  who came on 30 May 
investigated, and concluded that the leak was from an elbow on the plastic condensate flow 
pipe. He put some tape around it as he said it was a big job to replace the whole pipe. He 
advised that it would take quite a while for the ceiling to dry out because the insulation 
material was wet.
Mr H says that after he and his partner left their house on 12 June, a family member  made  
occasional visits to check on the property. This relative visited  on 23 August and noticed that 
the bathroom ceiling was very damp, discoloured,  and dripping. The dampness  had spread 
across the ceiling and was getting  near to the electric light fitting.
After this was reported to Mr H, he contacted RSA. He was told that he wasnt  covered as 
the property had been unoccupied for more than 30 days.
Mr H called in an independent engineer. He visited on 25 August and found that the leak 
was coming from a minute pin hole in the limescale  inhibitor. This wasnt noticeable until the 
tubular lagging surrounding  the inhibitor and nearby pipework was removed. He also 
confirmed that the lagging  didnt  appear to have  been disturbed  and there  were  no visual 
signs of water. The water had been  trickling down  the inside of the lagging  and this was 
directly above the elbow on the plastic pipe where  RSAs engineer had thought the leak to 
be. 
Mr H maintains that RSAs engineer was negligent  in assuring him that hed found the 
source of the leak and had repaired it. He says he shouldve checked more thoroughly for 
the source of the leak, and says that the resulting damage was RSAs  responsibility.
Ref: DRN79231732Mr H also argues that RSA shouldnt  have rejected his claim as it had been  made  clear  to it 
during the phone call on or around  20 May and also to the RSA engineers  when theyd 
visited that he and his partner were going  to be abroad for three  months. He says that at no 
point were they told that this would have any impact  on the policy.
Mr H raised complaints with RSA on 12 September after his return from abroad. He 
complained about the failure  by RSAs engineer to correctly identify the source of the leak, 
and about RSAs rejection of his claim for the consequential  damage because the property 
had been unoccupied for more than 30 days.
In response to Mr Hs complaints, RSA has provided a copy  of its service notes which 
provide different information. These show that Mr H phoned RSA on 30 May to report a leak.  
It noted that a service  was due and arranged  for an engineer to deal with both matters. The 
only previous entry  for 2018 shows that on 22 May, Mr H was sent his policy renewal letter.  
Theres no reference to any phone call to Mr H in 2018.
The records  show that RSAs engineer  visited on 4 June.  He diagnosed a leak on the elbow 
joint of the condensate pipe, and fixed it with a new joint.  
So the leak couldve been  fixed on any of 29 or 30 May, or 4 June. 
In its final response letter  to Mr H rejecting his complaints, RSA stated  that it considered that 
the leak originating from the limescale  inhibitor  identified  by Mr Hs engineer  wasnt related 
to the leak its engineer  had diagnosed  and repaired.  It also referred to the policy  term 
headed Changes  in Your Circumstances. This states (with my emphasis underlined);
You must tell us before  any of the following changes:
you are going to move  home permanently;
you change your boiler;
someone other than your family is going to live in your home;
your home is going to be unoccupied  for more than 30 days in a row;
We may reassess your cover, terms and premiums when we are told about changes  in 
your circumstances. If you do not tell us about changes or give us incorrect  information, 
the wrong terms may be quoted, a claim might be rejected or a claim payment could be 
reduced. In certain circumstances your policy  might  be invalidated, and you may not be 
entitled to a refund of premium.  
RSA says it hadnt been informed that Mr H would be leaving the property unoccupied for 
more than 30 days. It noted  that he said hed informed its engineers of his travel plans, but it 
said its engineers  arent obliged  to know or to discuss the terms of his policy.
As Mr H wasnt satisfied  with RSAs response to his complaints, he brought them to this 
service. Our investigator sought further  information from Mr Hs own engineer. He was asked 
whether, in his expert opinion, RSAs engineer shouldve been  reasonably  aware that when 
he put tape on the pipes  elbow, he shouldve also looked at the area under the lagging 
above where hed checked and found  the leak, or was this something  that couldve been  
easily missed.  His response was that it was a matter of opinion, and that it could've  
potentially been  missed. He also said there could've been two leaks  and its extremely 
difficult to pin-point what the fault is.
Mr H says that his engineer told him hed have  removed lagging  when  trying  to detect a 
pinhole leak,  and the lagging hadnt  been  touched. He also says that it was very unlikely that 
the condensate pipe was the source  of the leak as it has no pressure and doesnt  carry 
Ref: DRN79231733much water. He said hed have tested the pressured  pipeline  as the amount of water  in the 
insulation above  the ceiling would  suggest  a pressurised leak somewhere.
In relation to RSAs  refusal to cover the new claim because the property had been 
unoccupied for more  than 30 days, our investigator  asked RSA to provide a recording  of the 
call during which Mr H says he informed  RSA that he and his partner would be abroad  for 
three months. RSA said they couldnt  find any calls after having searched  Mr Hs contact 
numbers, and its contact  notes didnt show that it had been informed. Our investigators view 
was therefore  that she couldnt uphold Mr Hs complaints.
Not satisfied with our investigators view, Mr H asked that his complaints be looked at again  
by an ombudsman. Theyve therefore  been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of these  complaints. Im not going to uphold  Mr Hs 
complaints and Ill explain why.
I have to make my decision  on the basis of the evidence thats  presented to me, take 
account of what  both parties  say, and make a decision thats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr H and RSA have  provided conflicting  information.
Mr H has provided a copy of the Service Check List completed by RSAs  engineer  showing 
that Mr Hs boiler was serviced on 29 May.  This has a note on it saying Leak  on condensate 
 fixed  but monitor. This suggests to me that the engineer  attending on that occasion  had 
investigated the source of the leak and formed the opinion that it was from the condensate 
pipe. According  to Mr H, another  engineer came the following  day and made  a repair  to the 
condensate pipe. Mr Hs account therefore suggests  that two RSA engineers could  have 
been involved with identifying and fixing a leak on the condensate pipe.
But according to RSAs records, it was only on 30 May that Mr H phoned to report  a leak, 
and an engineer attended on 4 June to deal with this and to service the boiler.
Whichever version is correct, I think it can be said that Mr H had a leak which  at least one 
RSA engineer identified as being from the condensate pipe, and fixed it.
In August,  Mr Hs own engineer found  a leak from the limescale inhibitor. Mr Hs view is that 
this wasnt a new leak but mustve been  long standing as it had caused a limescale build  up 
that wouldve  taken  many months  to form. 
I need to consider the position  as at the time when RSAs  engineer(s) visited  and undertook 
a repair  to the condensate  pipe. I cant say whether or not there was a leak from that pipe,  
but if Mr Hs version of events is the correct one, two RSA engineers came to that view. 
What I also cant say is whether at that time there  was also a second leak from the limescale  
inhibitor, and if so, how noticeable it wouldve been.
There was then a gap of almost  three  months between  30 May and 23 August. During  this 
time the leak from the limescale inhibitor couldve occurred and limescale  start to build up. 
Or it could have started to leak before 29 May but shown  little signs of doing so. What  seems 
to me likely is that over a nearly three month period,  any leak would become more  obvious 
Ref: DRN79231734because of the increasing dampness. So what  Mr Hs engineer saw in August isnt what 
RSAs engineer(s) shouldve seen in late May/early June.
I think theres too much uncertainty  here for me to conclude  that RSAs  engineer(s) failed to 
spot something he/they shouldve spotted, or to check something he/they shouldve  
checked. Having  fixed what he/they  had (both) identified as the source of a leak, I dont think  
its unreasonable for him/ them not to have then conducted a further thorough investigation 
of all boiler pipework and connections in case there  was another  leak, which  Mr H believes 
they shouldve  done. And if theyd done  so, it cant be said with any certainty that there was 
another leak at that time that shouldve been  discovered. 
I think its also relevant that the Service Check List provided to Mr H on 29 May specifically 
states Leak  on condensate  fixed  but monitor. But Mr H wasnt  in a position to monitor if 
the leak had been successfully fixed. Had he been,  or had someone  monitored the bathroom 
ceiling earlier in his absence, the damage wouldve been less. That isnt something  for which  
RSA can be held responsible.
So my conclusion on this part of Mr Hs complaint  is that I have insufficient  evidence  as to 
whether RSAs engineer(s)  were negligent in May/June 2018  in failing to identify whether 
instead of, or in addition to, the leak from the condensate pipe, there was also a leak from 
the limescale inhibitor.
Turning to the complaint about  declined cover, Mr H has said that his partner told RSA 
during its initial  phone call to him on or around  20 May 2018  that theyd be abroad from June 
to September.  Having  already seen  RSAs service records, I asked RSA what other  
evidence it could provide. 
RSA confirmed that it had checked the call recorder  and couldnt find any call from Mr H by 
searching the telephone  numbers it had on file for him. It didnt address whether it also 
recorded outgoing calls, but stated that it keeps  a full record of notes on policies and that no 
note was added on Mr Hs policy as to his being  abroad for three months. It says it wasnt  
given this information by Mr H. RSAs records for 2018 only record that a call was received 
from Mr H on 30 May reporting a leak. It also said that if a customer were to notify it of a 
change in circumstances, it would either  verbally acknowledge this by a recorded phone  call 
or, where  required,  send confirmation  of this in writing with the effect it would have on the 
policy.
Mr H says he also told the engineers who attended. I dont consider that telling an engineer 
is sufficient notification. I dont think its reasonable to expect an engineer  to know what  a 
customers policy says, or necessarily to know to whom such information should be passed.
The potential consequences  of a failure  to notify a change  of circumstances are serious. Any 
claim can be rejected, or a policy invalidated. I think it would be prudent  for a policyholder  to 
take steps to ensure that any notification of a change in circumstances is acknowledged by 
the insurer. If no response is received, I dont think its reasonable to assume  that the 
notification has been received by the appropriate department, and that hearing  nothing from 
the insurer implies that the insurer has received the notification and that it has no impact on 
the policy. 
In the absence of any evidence from Mr H that he informed  RSA that he was going to be 
abroad for three months, I have  no grounds  for finding that he did. And RSA says its 
checked its call recordings and also its policy records. Neither show  any message from Mr 
H.  I would consider it surprising if RSA had received such  notification but hadnt recorded it 
and informed Mr H as to the impact  it would have on his cover.
Ref: DRN79231735As I have to make my decision on the evidence provided  to me, my conclusion is that, on the 
balance of probabilities, RSA didnt  receive  any notification from Mr H. In the circumstances, 
I dont think RSA is acting  unreasonably in declining Mr Hs claim.
Ive also considered Mr Hs assertion that their being  away for more  than 30 days isnt 
relevant to a claim for negligence on 30 May, before they left. But Ive given my reasons as 
to why I dont consider  there to be sufficient  evidence  of negligence. And one of the reasons 
for imposing terms which exclude cover  if a property is unoccupied  for more than 30 days  is 
to avoid just this sort of claim, where  damage  can become more  serious  because  it goes 
unidentified and unremedied. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Mr Hs complaints and I dont  
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7923173