K822xcomplaint
Mr C and Ms B have complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited misled them into 
thinking the critical illness component of their lifetime benefit plan covered more  conditions 
than it did. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision (which is attached to, and forms part of this final decision), 
partially upholding Mr C and Ms Bs complaint,  in August 2018. I asked both parties  to send 
me anything  else they wanted me to consider  by September 2018.
Mr C and Ms B didnt agree with my provisional decision. They made  the following key 
points:
They didnt agree with my interpretation  of the evidence and feel the points Ive made 
are assumptions rather than factual findings.
Im incorrect in saying Aviva was initially contacted  about  Mr Cs condition  in 2013. 
Mr C was diagnosed  with his condition in 2011, and it was soon after this he 
contacted Aviva  to find out if he was covered. Mr C had a conversation with someone  
at Aviva who confirmed cover and followed this up with a policy document  which also 
confirmed he was covered.
They continued to pay premiums towards  the policy because they were given 
incorrect information in 2011.
Aviva  confirmed Mr Cs condition was covered twice  in 2011 and 2013.
Aviva  confirmed cover on several occasions and so the error shouldnt  be considered 
as a one-off.  
Mr C and Ms B were  led to believe  Mr Cs condition was covered, and that theyd 
receive a pay-out,  for four years. Theyve questioned why the error  only came to light 
when they attempted to claim.
In 2017 Mr C and Ms B were told Aviva would  review  their records and calls to 
investigate their complaint. They were  told the calls had been checked  and so theyre  
concerned these call recordings  no longer  exist.
It could be argued  Aviva chose to withhold correct  information to mislead them into 
continuing to pay for the policy.
Avivas negligence  is on a high scale  it is not a minor error  Avivas offer of £150 
was not sufficient.
Contact notes and call recordings should be looked at from 2011  onwards.
Aviva  not having call recordings from 2013/2014 is negligent and the lack of 
information shouldnt  be used as a tool to discriminate  the claim.
Ive taken their comment about  what they wouldve done had Aviva given them the 
correct information  about what the policy covers out of context. Its unfair that Ive 
made an assumption about  what may have happened without  looking  at the real 
facts of what they wouldve done.
I have said there  was no guarantee of payment. But given Aviva informed them that 
Mr Cs diagnosed condition was covered, theyd assumed there  was a likelihood of 
pay-out. They  feel I have misinterpreted their intentions and labelled  them as 
chancing a claim.
Ive claimed Mr Cs procedure might never have taken place and this is incorrect.  The 
operation not being likely  in the foreseeable future does not amount to an operation 
that might never take place.
Ref: DRN71245092I have said I wasnt persuaded Mr C and Ms B thought they would definitely receive a 
pay-out from their policy in future,  but I contradict my own statement by saying I think  
they probably thought it was likely theyd received a pay-out.
When a policy is renewed,  and the premium  is increased, the up to date plan for that 
policy would then apply. Mr C and Ms Bs premium increased in September 2017. Mr 
C would  like Avivas renewal policy explored and would like a copy  of this.
Aviva  state in their policy document  that a policyholder  has the option to increase 
their cover at any time and this information wasnt  shared with Mr C during 
discussions in 2011. Aviva shouldve checked  the policy was still appropriate for Mr C 
and Ms B during policy reviews.
£2,000 isnt an adequate reflection  of the distress caused. They have spent over a 
year of trying to get to the bottom of Avivas  error.
After receiving Mr C and Ms Bs comments I asked Aviva to send us its contact notes and 
any call recordings  from 2011 onwards. Aviva sent us this information, and it also sent this 
information to Mr C and Ms B. Aviva has said it didnt have any contact from Mr C and Ms B 
between 12 April 2010 and 4 February  2013   so it has no record of Mr C making contact  in 
2011 to discuss  his condition. It also said if it had issued a new policy  document at this time 
there would be a record of this on its file. Aviva asked to see a copy  of the policy  booklet Mr 
C said he received  in 2011, along with the cover letter.
Aviva also said there is no evidence it gave Mr C and Ms B incorrect  information on a 
number of occasions. 
Aviva said insurance is fortuitous and Mr C and Ms B have  experienced a loss of expectation  
rather than a financial loss. However, Aviva  has said that given Mr C and Ms B have said he 
wouldnt have increased his premiums in 2017  or wanted to continue  to pay for the policy  
had they been properly  informed, its willing to lapse the contract from the date the incorrect  
letter was sent,  in 2013, and refund  premiums.
After receiving the paperwork from Aviva, Mr C and Ms B made the following  key points:
The call recordings dont contain the extended  conversations that took place about  
cover.
There are no call recordings to support the fact there was a lot of contact with Aviva  
since 2011.
Aviva  has been accommodated and allowed to get away  with bad practice
Mr C would like me to look into whether his premiums should be refunded  as part of 
this complaint.
Avivas contact notes are their perception  of what was discussed and not a true 
account of the actual  conversations.
I should ask Aviva  why it has been selective in the information its provided.
Aviva  didnt send Ms B the paperwork even though  it said it had. Ms B says this 
shows Avivas  lack of professionalism and dishonesty. Ms B would  like to understand 
my view on this.
Having considered all the evidence provided in response to my provisional decision, Im now 
in a position to make a final decision on Mr C and Ms Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN71245093my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to maintain  
my position,  and uphold Mr C and Ms Bs complaint in part. Ive set out my reasons why 
below, and Id like to reassure Mr C and Ms B that Ive taken into account all of their further  
comments, even  if I havent specifically commented on all of them in this final decision.
incorrect information about the policy was first given in 2011 and Aviva misinformed Mr C 
and Ms B several times
Mr C and Ms B have said that Aviva gave them incorrect information about what their policy 
covered a number  of times; both over the phone  and in writing.  And Mr C has said the first 
time Aviva misinformed him was when  he made  contact in 2011 to discuss  his condition. 
Hes said he was told his condition was covered,  and he was sent a policy document which 
supported what Aviva  told him. 
I asked Aviva for its comments on what Mr C and Ms B said, and I asked it to send us any 
evidence it had to support  its comments.  Aviva sent us a screen shot from its system which  
shows all the contact  between it and Mr C and Ms B since  the policy started. It also sent us 
its contact notes. Avivas evidence shows there was no contact  from Mr C and Ms B 
between 2010  and 2013. 
Avivas contact notes are contemporaneous, and so I would expect any contact Mr C had 
with it in 2011 to appear on its records. Nevertheless, I asked Mr C to send us a copy  of the 
policy document he says Aviva sent him in 2011, along with Avivas  covering letter.  This is 
because although  Mr C had sent us a copy of a policy document,  it wasnt clear which year it 
referred to. Following my request, Mr C didnt send  us what Id asked for. 
Ive also looked  at all contact between Aviva and Mr C and Ms B carefully,  and I cant see 
any other instance of Aviva telling them Mr Cs condition  and treatment  was covered. 
I appreciate there is a possibility Aviva did provide misleading information in 2011,  and that it 
mightve done so at other times. But where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive,  I 
need to make my decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened.  
Having done so, taking all of the evidence into account, on balance  I remain persuaded 
Aviva only misinformed Mr C and Ms B once, in 2013. 
I do understand Mr C and Ms B are frustrated  that Aviva hasnt been able to locate some of 
the call recordings.  But as Ive already said, Id expect its contact notes to broadly reflect any 
conversation that took place. In this case,  I think its contact notes are detailed enough for me 
to be able to rely on them.
Ive taken what Mr C and Ms B have  said out of context, and the policy was kept in force 
because of the misinformation
In my provisional decision,  I explained  what I thought Mr C and Ms B would have done had 
Aviva given them the correct list of conditions the policy covered in 2013.  I appreciate  Mr C 
and Ms B think Ive made assumptions  about what they wouldve done,  however  I cant  know  
for sure what wouldve happened  if Aviva  had given them the correct information about  their 
policy. So again,  I needed to make my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
Ref: DRN71245094words, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened.  Ive done this by 
considering what  Mr C and Ms B have told us, along  with all the other available  evidence.
Despite the fact Mr C and Ms B disagree  with the view Ive reached  on this point, they 
havent provided me with a counter argument that I find persuasive. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, nothing Mr C or Ms B previously  told us about  what theyd have done 
differently was quantifiable or concrete in any way. And I remain  mindful that everything 
theyve told me theyd have done  differently during  the course  of this complaint has been 
said with the benefit of hindsight. So the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision stand.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr C has specifically said he wouldnt have 
continued to pay for the policy after 2011 (the point at which  he says he was first given the 
wrong information).  As I have set out above, Im not persuaded  Mr C was given the wrong 
information in 2011. And for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, even if Aviva  
hadnt provided the wrong information in 2013, Im still of the view Mr C and Ms B wouldve 
likely kept the policy in place because of the protection  it offered. Nevertheless,  Aviva has 
said its willing to lapse  the contract from the date the incorrect  letter  was sent,  in 2013, and 
refund premiums. I leave  it up to Mr C and Ms B to decide whether they want to accept 
Avivas offer.
assurance the claim would be paid 
Im sorry  Mr C and Ms B feel that I have suggested they were chancing  a claim; that was 
certainly not my intention. But no claim is guaranteed to be successful  and in this case the 
definitions of aortic graft surgery and heart  valve replacement and repair  are very specific.  
Even if Mr C and Ms B had the right cover in place,  Mr C wouldve needed to meet  the 
definition before a claim would become  payable.  As I explained in my provisional  decision, 
the letter from Mr Cs consultant in 2011 didnt provide any detail about what his operation  in 
the future  might involve  (if it went ahead), and it is for this reason I thought it wasnt certain 
the definition would  be met.
Mr C and Ms B dont agree with my view the operation might never have taken place. And 
theyve said Ive been contradictory  in saying I didnt think  they thought  it was definite (my 
emphasis) theyd receive a pay-out, and then later saying I thought it was likely they felt 
theyd receive a pay-out. 
To clarify, I remain of the view there  was a possibility Mr C might never have had the 
operation. I accept the consultant thought it was likely. But this means an operation was 
likely, not definite.  So there was no guarantee Mr C would ever have made a claim. And, as 
Ive said above,  any claim wasnt guaranteed to be successful anyway given the policy  
definitions. Mr C and Ms B said they planned their future on the promise of a payout,  but for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it was reasonable  for them  to rely on a pay-out from 
this policy  to the extent  they say they did. But I do think Aviva did enough  to raise false 
expectations  and that is why Ive awarded  compensation.
dissatisfaction with Avivas conduct
Mr C and Ms B have made some serious allegations about Avivas  conduct and motivation. 
But having  considered all the evidence,  Im not persuaded  Aviva  deliberately  mis-led or 
concealed the truth from Mr C and Ms B. And I think  its been open and transparent in the 
information its shared  with us in relation to this complaint.  While  its disappointing Aviva 
Ref: DRN71245095gave Mr C and Ms B incorrect  information in 2013, mistakes do happen.  And while I dont 
think Avivas initial  offer of £150  was sufficient, I do think its later offer of £2,000 is fair in the 
circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr C said he was unhappy Aviva hadnt  checked 
whether the policy  was still appropriate  for Mr C and Ms B during policy reviews. He also 
said that when  the premium  is increased,  then the up to date plan for the policy  would apply. 
Mr C has said hed like Avivas renewal policy to be explored, and hed like a copy of it. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the policy Mr C and Ms B took out doesnt cover 
heart valve replacement  or aorta valve surgery.  Aviva has also confirmed the medical  
conditions covered by the policy are set out at the outset,  and dont change  over the lifetime 
of the contract. Mr C has referred to more recent  policy documents, but even having looked 
at these, I can see that only the amount  of cover (the amount Aviva would pay in the event of 
a successful claim) and the policy term can be changed. In my experience the medical  
conditions covered in these  types  of policies dont  change during the term of the policy. This 
is because any changes  to the list of medical  conditions covered could equally work against 
Mr C and Ms B. So Id expect the agreed  list of medical conditions  covered by the policy  at 
the point of sale to remain  in place.
Notwithstanding my comments above, Mr C hasnt previously complained to Aviva about  the 
fact it didnt check whether the policy was still appropriate during policy reviews, and he 
hasnt asked questions  about its renewal policy until now. So if Mr C and Ms B wish to 
pursue these particular  complaint points, then they should contact Aviva directly. 
Finally, Im aware  Ms B feels  as though  Aviva  was dishonest because  it told us it had sent 
her its paperwork and she didnt  receive  it. Ms B says this shows  Avivas lack of 
professionalism and dishonesty, and shed  like my view on this. 
Aviva told us it sent the paperwork  by email, and sent it separately to Mr C and Ms B. After 
Ms B made us aware she hadnt received it we contacted Aviva.  Aviva  confirmed  it had sent 
the email to the correct address, and asked that Ms B checked her junk mail. When  Ms B 
told us she still hadnt received the email, Aviva  sent it via a different email method; after 
which Ms B received it. While this isnt material to my decision, I think its unlikely Aviva 
would have told us it had sent the email when it hadnt. And given Ms B received it after it 
was sent via a different method, I think the original method was likely the cause of its non-
delivery  rather than Aviva not sending it at all.
summary
I know Mr C and Ms B will be disappointed  with my decision, but I have to be impartial,  and 
fair to both parties.  Mr C and Ms Bs policy was set up without aorta graft surgery  or heart 
valve replacement cover. It follows that I cant ask Aviva to accept an aorta  graft surgery or 
heart valve replacement  claim, or pay equivalent  benefit, on a policy that doesnt cover those 
conditions/surgeries. 
While I am sympathetic to the reliance Mr C and Ms B placed on the information  they were  
given in 2013, I do find Avivas offer of £2,000 to be fair in the circumstances.  Its at the high 
end of the region of awards wed make for clerical errors of this nature.
Ref: DRN71245096my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I partly uphold Mr C and Ms 
Bs complaint. I require  Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited to pay Mr C and Ms B £2,000  for 
the material distress and inconvenience the error caused them. 
I leave it up to Mr C and Ms B to decide whether they want to accept  Avivas  offer to lapse 
the contract  from the date the incorrect letter was sent (in 2013) and receive a refund of any 
premiums from this date. If Mr C and Ms B do choose to accept this offer from Aviva, it 
should contact  Aviva directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71245097provisional decision  copy
complaint
Mr C and Ms B have complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited misled them into 
thinking their critical illness policy covered more conditions  than it did. As a result  theyve 
discovered Mr C is unable  to claim following heart  surgery.
background
Mr C and Ms B took out a life and critical illness policy in 1992. 
In 2017 Mr C had aortic valve replacement. Mr C and Ms B contacted Aviva before Mr Cs 
surgery to find out about making a claim for aorta  graft surgery, or heart  valve  replacement 
or repair on his policy.
Aviva told Mr C and Ms B their policy didnt cover heart valve  surgery or aorta graft surgery. 
Mr C and Ms B disagreed. They provided evidence to show  that Aviva had sent them  a list of 
conditions covered by their policy in 2013  which showed that aorta graft surgery  and heart  
valve replacement or repair was covered.
Aviva accepted it had sent Mr C and Ms B incorrect information about what  their policy  
covered in 2013, but ultimately it said their policy didnt cover  them  for aorta graft surgery  
and heart  valve replacement and repair. It paid Mr C and Ms B £150  to compensate them  for 
the error.
Mr C and Ms B didnt think this was fair. They thought Aviva should  honour the claim so they 
referred their complaint  to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint but she didnt  uphold it. She accepted  Aviva  had 
sent Mr C and Ms B a list of conditions which related to a different policy, but she felt this 
was a mistake. She thought Aviva had adequately compensated them for the error  because 
she was satisfied Mr Cs surgery wasnt covered by their policy.
Mr C and Ms B didnt agree with the investigators opinion. They said the investigator had 
admitted Aviva had made an error in 2013,  and theyd only become aware  of this error very 
recently  at the point they wanted to claim. They added  that theyd believed  Mr Cs 
condition/operation would be covered  since  2013,  and that this had been  confirmed several  
times during conversations with Aviva in 2014 when they were going through  divorce 
proceedings.
Because of this, Mr C and Ms B dont think Aviva made a minor  error. They  say they 
continued with the policy because of the explicit understanding Mr Cs condition was covered 
by the policy.  And had they received the correct  information, theyd have taken out a more  
appropriate policy which wouldve paid out when Mr C had his heart surgery.
Mr C and Ms B asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  and so it was 
passed to me to make a decision.
Before making a decision, I asked Aviva to provide the following information:
Ref: DRN71245098Contact notes and/or call recordings to explain what prompted Aviva  to send the 
incorrect policy details in 2013
Contact notes and/or call recordings from 2014  to show what  was discussed with Mr 
C and Ms B during their divorce proceedings
Aviva confirmed that in 2013 Ms B asked for a deed  of assignment form and a list of 
illnesses covered by the policy. Aviva has explained  it no longer has call recordings from 
2013/2014. But its provided  contact  notes to show that the only contact from Mr C and Ms B 
in 2014 related to their divorce proceedings, the agreement to split proceeds from any future  
critical illness claim, the request to change Ms Bs name, and a missed  payment. It has no 
record of giving Mr C or Ms B incorrect information  about their policy  other than in 2013.  
I also asked Mr C and Ms B:
When Mr C was diagnosed with his heart condition
What they wouldve  done had Aviva  sent the correct list of covered conditions in 
2013
Mr C has provided evidence  to show that he was diagnosed  with his heart condition in 2011, 
and subsequently admitted to hospital with symptoms  in 2012. 
Mr C and Ms B have explained that had Aviva  sent them  the correct  list of covered 
conditions in 2013, they wouldve looked for funding  through other means such as a different 
policy, better paid employment  with better benefits,  a low interest loan, or different financial 
planning. They feel Avivas error  has cost them a substantial  amount of money and theyve 
said they planned their lives around the promise of a pay-out under their policy.  For all these 
reasons, Mr C and Ms B think that Aviva  should  honour the claim.
I have since shared what Mr C and Ms B told us with Aviva.  I asked Aviva whether  it would  
consider revising  its offer in light of this additional information. In summary,  it explained  that 
the correct policy details were sent to Mr C and Ms B when their policy  started, and this 
didnt change over the life of the contract. It also said that there is no guarantee a claim will 
be accepted, so it thought  Mr C and Ms B had experienced a loss of expectation  rather than 
actual financial loss. Because of this Aviva said it was willing  to pay Mr C and Ms B a total of 
£2,000 for loss of expectation,  in full and final settlement of their complaint. 
Mr C and Ms B do not accept Avivas new offer, so Ill now make a decision on the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear Aviva made  a mistake and sent Mr C and Ms B incorrect information about what  
their policy covered. So Ive thought about  what wouldve happened  if Aviva had done 
everything it shouldve  done  in other  words,  what wouldve happened  if Aviva had sent Mr 
C and Ms B the correct list of conditions that their policy  covered in 2013.
In response to the investigators view, Mr C and Ms B said that they would have taken  out 
more appropriate  insurance that wouldve ensured  a pay-out following Mr Cs operation.  
Aviva has confirmed that had Mr C and Ms B asked  for a new critical illness  policy that 
Ref: DRN71245099covered aortic graft surgery or heart  valve replacement/repair in 2013, it only wouldve 
offered Mr C life cover, not critical illness cover, because hed already been diagnosed with 
his heart  condition. Because of Mr Cs heart condition, Im not persuaded Mr C wouldve 
been able to get critical illness cover  elsewhere,  and I think its highly likely that any other 
protection policies  wouldve excluded heart conditions for the same reason. Because of this, 
if Aviva  had sent Mr C and Ms B the correct information in 2013, I think its likely Mr C and 
Ms B wouldve continued with their policy. This is because  they would have at least still had 
a critical illness policy,  and it covered other heart  conditions/surgery.
Mr C and Ms B have given other examples as to what  theyd have done had they been sent 
the correct information. Theyve said if we knew we were not going to receive  this money,  
we would have  looked for funding by a different means, perhaps by a different  policy,  but 
also through, for example,  finding  a higher paid job, a low interest loan,  long term financial 
management and saving, or securing  a job that would cover  the appropriate sick pay costs. 
While I appreciate Mr C and Ms B mightve done any number of these things, Im mindful  
that this has been said with the benefit of hindsight, following the disappointment of finding 
out Mr Cs operation isnt covered by their policy. Nothing Mr C and Ms B have suggested 
theyd have done is concrete or quantifiable in any way. So Im not persuaded, at this stage,  
that Mr C and Ms B wouldve done  anything differently had they received the correct  
information. And even  if I was, it would be very difficult to quantify what they mightve lost out 
on financially as a result  of Avivas error. 
Mr C and Ms B have also said they planned their future on the promise of a payout.  And as 
Ive set out above, theyve explained  what they would  have  done  if they knew they were not 
going to receive  a pay-out. But there was no guarantee Mr C would make  a successful claim 
in the future. His consultants letter from 2011  says that it was likely at some  point  in the 
future he would  need  aortic valve surgery. Theres  no real timeframe as to when this 
operation might take place other  than it not being likely in the foreseeable future. So I have 
to consider the fact that the procedure might never  have taken place at all. And even  if it was 
certain in 2013,  that Mr C would have aortic valve surgery, there was no guarantee that 
Aviva would accept the claim. This is the because the definitions  for aorta  graft surgery and 
heart valve replacement  and repair are very specific, and at the point Mr C and Ms B 
received the incorrect  information as to what their policy covered, Mr Cs consultant hadnt 
provided any detail  as to what Mr Cs operation in the future would involve. So at the point 
Aviva misinformed them (in 2013), Im not persuaded  Mr C and Ms B thought they would 
definitely receive a pay-out from their policy  in the future.
Finally, despite Avivas mistake, Im satisfied  the policy  Mr C and Ms B were accepted for, 
and had paid for, didnt  cover heart  valve replacement/repair  or aortic  graft surgery.  So for all 
these reasons, I dont  think  Aviva  should honour the claim.
Nevertheless, I do think Mr C and Ms B have suffered a loss of expectation. While I dont 
know why Ms B asked  for a list of what their policy covered in 2013,  I cant help but think its 
likely this was because  Mr C had been diagnosed  with a heart condition. So I believe that on 
receipt of the incorrect information, Mr C and Ms B wouldve quite reasonably felt some 
reassurance that if Mr C had aortic valve repair in the future, they might be able to claim on 
their policy.  And when Mr C was told hed be having  his surgery in 2017, I think they 
probably thought  it was likely theyd receive a not insignificant  sum of just over £40,000.
As Ive explained, Aviva  has now offered  to pay Mr C and Ms B a total of £2,000  for the loss 
of expectation  theyve experienced. Its clear Mr C and Ms B are very upset that they were 
misinformed their policy covered them for something  it didnt,  particularly as the mis-
Ref: DRN712450910information was so relevant to Mr Cs health  at the time. And, given the amount Mr C and Ms 
B were led to expect  they might receive, I can completely understand their disappointment 
and frustration when  it became  apparent  Aviva  had made a mistake in what it had told them 
four years earlier. 
I appreciate Mr C and Ms B have said that Aviva confirmed they were  covered for aorta  graft 
surgery and heart valve  surgery a number of times, but other  than what theyve said, there is 
no other evidence  to suggest that Aviva gave  Mr C and Ms B the wrong information more  
than once. So having carefully  reviewed  the matter, and taken into account the nature of the 
error, Im satisfied the level of compensation offered by Aviva is fair in the circumstances.  I 
think it reflects the loss of expectation  and distress experienced  by Mr C and Ms B. And 
while I have genuine  sympathy for Mr C and Ms B, I havent seen anything persuasive to 
suggest the impact  of Avivas error has been to the extent that a greater award is warranted. 
 
While I dont underestimate Mr C and Ms Bs strength  of feeling on the matter,  I consider 
£2,000 to be an amount that is substantial  and fair based on what  happened.  Its also in line 
with what Id normally expect to see in these circumstances.  
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im currently minded to uphold Mr C and Ms Bs complaint in 
part. I intend on requiring  Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited to pay Mr C and Ms B £2,000 for 
the material distress and inconvenience the error caused them.
I now invite both parties  to provide me with any further evidence they want me to consider 
before I issue my final decision.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7124509