K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2011 to 
cover Mr Ms mortgage and further  advance.  Mr M says Santander UK plc, Alliance and 
Leicester at the time,  mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr M took out his mortgage with Santander  in 2004  but didnt take out PPI at this time. In 
2011 he took out a further advance and also took out a PPI policy to cover  the mortgage  and 
further advance  repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ms policy was mis-sold. Mr M disagreed with this opinion,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr M says the PPI was taken out over the internet. But Santander  says it was taken out over 
the phone, and its provided copies of its records  from the call which state  that this was a 
telephone interview. So I think its likely the policy was sold over the phone. 
Mr M says he believed  he wouldve  had a better  chance  of being approved for the further  
advance if he took out the policy - but Ive not seen  any evidence to support  this. And Mr M 
hasnt told me anything else about what he was told at the time for me to be persuaded that 
something untoward happened. Ive seen  that the PPI was sold a long time ago  around 8 
years ago  and this is something I have to keep  in mind.
Unfortunately, theres no longer a call recording available for me to listen  to, so I dont know  
exactly what was said. But Santander says it wouldve explained  that the policy  was optional 
and it wouldve given  Mr M a choice about whether or not to take out the PPI. Its provided a 
copy of a call script  which it says wouldve been used at the time and a copy of its telephone 
interview notes from the call. 
The call script provided shows that the sales person wouldve been instructed to present  the 
PPI as optional  and obtain  Mr Ms explicit  consent  to take it out. I dont know if this script was 
followed or if it was in place at the time, but Ive looked  at this alongside the telephone 
interview notes provided in order to come to a decision on what I think  is more likely to have 
happened.  
The telephone interview notes state that Santander  wanted to ensure Mr M had considered  
how his repayments  would be met in the event of being off work sick or being made 
redundant. But thats different to saying that he had to take out the cover. They  also state 
that the PPI is an optional  policy  and is separate to the mortgage borrowing. And that Mr M 
wanted to protect  his monthly mortgage  and related outgoings against  accident and sickness 
Ref: DRN78843572only. The telephone interview notes are not signed so I dont  know  if Mr M saw them,  but I 
think its likely that they were completed  during  the call where  Mr M agreed to take out 
accident and sickness cover only.  
Santander have  also provided evidence to show that Mr M cancelled the PPI soon after 
agreeing to take it out, as the further  advance  initially wasnt approved.  After  the further 
advance had been agreed Mr M called to reinstate the PPI. So I think  he was aware  the PPI 
was optional, and that it didnt have  any impact on his application for credit being approved. 
And so based  on everything Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Santander  made it 
clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out to cover  him 
for accident and sickness only  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this now.
Mr M has said on a number of occasions that Santander recommended  the policy  to him, so 
I think he feels strongly about this. Santander  says it didnt give him any advice, and the 
documents provided suggest that this was a non-advised sale.  But Ive not made a finding 
on this point as I dont think its crucial to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because,  
had Santander  recommended  the policy, I think it wouldve been a suitable recommendation 
to have made for the reasons Ive set out below. As a result,  Ive considered  the 
circumstances for both an advised  and a non-advised sale.
As an advised sale Santander  wouldve had to check that the PPI was right for Mr M  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. I say this 
because Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Ive also 
seen that Mr M wasnt entitled to any sick pay from his employer  and didnt have any savings 
or insurance  which he couldve used to make  his repayments if he was off work sick. He had 
two dependants at the time and was solely responsible for the repayments.  And so I think he 
had a need for the cover.
As a non-advised sale Santander had to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to 
decide if the policy was right for him. Ive seen a copy  of a policy schedule that was sent to 
Mr M following the call. In this the cost and benefit  amounts are clearly set out. However, its 
possible some  of the other information  Santander gave him about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But considering his circumstances at the time it seems  like the policy  
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. And so I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But 
Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN78843573Santander has to pay back  to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr M any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each  month because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr M 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Santander UK plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7884357