K822xcomplaint
Miss Ds complaint is about the level of commission received  by Santander Cards UK 
Limited (Santander) on her payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy that was attached  
to a store card.
The store card in question  was taken out with PPI in 2003.
 
background
Santander, in August  2019 made an offer to Miss D to refund some of the commission and 
profit share it received  because  of the PPI. 
It said it only needed to look at the level of unfair  commission and profit  share it received 
from 6 April 2007. And as Miss D only paid for PPI until October 2008 its offer was for that 
period.
In total, Santander  offered Miss D £141.54  (after tax). Miss D didnt accept the offer.
Our adjudicator thought the offer made  by Santander was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint. 
As Miss D didnt agree the complaint  has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint, I think Santanders offer is 
fair. Ill explain  why.
First, I would like to clarify that within this decision Ive only considered  Miss Ds complaint 
about the commission and profit share Santander  (as the lender) got due to the PPI. 
what has Santander offered?
Santander has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D. And this is 
because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Miss D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
This is what  the rules  set by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  suggest  Santander 
should pay in cases like this  and I think this is fair in Miss Ds case.
But, importantly, Santander says it only needs  to do this for the period  after 6 April 2007.
Ref: DRN79034002why 6 April 2007  is an important date
We can only look into complaints where we have the power to. The rules  we follow (set out 
in FCA handbook)  gives a list of activities that we can look at complaints about.
Before the 6 April 2007, we couldnt look at complaints about some  consumer  credit  
activities, including complaints about  store cards. 
On 6 April 2007  our powers were extended  and complaints about  store  cards, like Miss Ds, 
became something  we could look at. But only about things that happened  on, or after 
6 April 2007.
Put simply, this means I dont have the power, in this case,  to look at what  happened  before 
6 April 2007. I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards. 
what does this mean for Miss D?
Because of this it means that Santander  only needs to look at whether it treated  Miss D 
unfairly in relation to the commission and profit  share it received after 6 April 2007  and not 
before. And I can only look at what happened  from 6 April 2007 onwards  not before.
The information Ive seen shows the account  was opened in 2003. But, as explained above, 
Santander only needs to work out the refund of excess commission  and profit share  on PPI 
premiums charged from 6 April 2007  onwards. And Miss Ds policy  ended  in October 2008. 
In line with what I have  said above,  Santander therefore only needed to look at the 
commission it received between April 2007  and October 2008. 
This means  the refund  of any unfair  commission is only for a relatively shorter period of time 
compared to how long the PPI was actually charged.
For the period  between  April 2007  and October 2008 Santander has compared what  the 
account looked like and what it would have looked like if the commission  and profit share 
had been 50%. 
Santander has been able to work out the extra Miss D paid because of any commission  and 
profit share it received  on the PPI that was above  50%. 
Santander has worked out Miss D paid £81.96 more than she would have done had the 
commission and profit share been less. Santander then added simple  interest  at 8% per year 
to compensate Miss D for being out pocket by this amount. Its worked  this out to be £59.58 
(after tax).
So in total,  its offer to Miss D is £141.54.
In this case, I am satisfied that Santander has made Miss D an offer of compensation in 
relation to the level of unfair  commission (and profit share) it received that is in-line with the 
methods set out by the FCA.   
Ref: DRN79034003We do look at the particular circumstances of each  complaint and each consumer to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  wouldnt lead to fair and reasonable redress  for that 
individual consumer.  But there isnt anything about  Miss Ds complaint  that suggests  the 
redress offered by Santander  isnt fair or reasonable.
I think the compensation puts right any unfairness caused by Miss D not being told about the 
amount of commission and profit share Santander got. So I wont be asking Santander to do 
anything more. 
It is for Miss D to decide whether she wishes to accept Santanders offer.
I appreciate that Miss D is unhappy with the poor customer service  she feels  she has 
received from Santander and for the time that it has taken for the complaint to be resolved. 
But Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint as Im satisfied that Santanders offer of 
compensation is fair. I can also see that Santander apologised for the length of time the 
complaint had taken.  So I dont award any additional  compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Santander Cards UK Limited has offered fair compensation for the commission  it got from 
the PPI.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7903400