K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Ulster Bank Limited wont refund  three debit card payments that he 
says he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr G told Ulster Bank that he didnt recognise  three payments totalling just over £160 made 
using his debit  card in November  2018. He opened the account towards the end of October 
2018 and paid in £500 in cash in early November.  He received his debit card for the account. 
The three disputed  payments  took place over a period of eight  days  in November. All of 
them were  made online  using Mr Gs debit card.
Ulster Bank declined to refund the disputed payments because it didnt think there  had been  
any opportunity for Mr Gs card to be compromised and it believed Mr G had authorised  the 
payments. It decided to end the banking relationship.
Our investigator didnt  think Ulster Bank had made  a mistake in refusing to refund the 
disputed payments. He thought it was more  likely  than not that Mr G had authorised the 
transactions and he didnt  think  the bank had treated him unfairly by closing the account.
Mr G disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed again  so it has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint..  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as our investigator previously set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
Mr G opened a new current account online towards the end of October  2018.  On the day the 
account opened Ulster Bank sent out a personal identification number (PIN) and a few days  
later it sent out Mr Gs new debit card. Mr G has said that he safely  received the card.  He 
paid £500 cash  into his account on 12 November.  
Mr G says that he told Ulster Bank in early December that there had been two unauthorised 
transactions on his account. It said it would investigate them and he would get the money  
back. He paid in another  £150 and then went away on holiday for two weeks. When he 
returned he found out that there had been  a third unauthorised payment from the account. 
The basic  position  is that Ulster  Bank can hold Mr G liable for the disputed items if the 
evidence suggests  that he most likely  made  or authorised them  himself.  So my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think  Mr G authorised these  payments.  
But for me to be satisfied  that these payments were  authorised, I first need to determine 
whether they were  authenticated.
Authentication is the use of a procedure  by which a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. Im satisfied from 
the evidence Ulster  Bank has provided that whoever made  the transaction entered  the 
correct card details.
Ref: DRN75413352The regulations relevant  to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for Ulster Bank to 
hold Mr G liable, just because his genuine  card details  were used. So I also need to consider  
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that he consented to the disputed 
transactions being made.
Mr G received his card and he didnt  use it before  the disputed payments took place. Mr G 
says that he had the card in his possession  when he went  away on holiday. So I consider  it 
unlikely that the card was compromised. 
For an unauthorised  person to carry out these  online transactions  they would have needed  
Mr Gs card details.  As Mr G says that he received  the card and had it in his possession I 
cant see how someone unknown to Mr G could have got hold of these details without Mr G 
knowing. He has subsequently suggested that he took a photo  on his phone of the card and 
he might  have shared  it through  a social media account by mistake  and this might be how 
someone was able to use his card for the transactions.
The terms of Mr Gs card say that he must keep its details safe. I think  Mr G would have 
known if he mistakenly shared a photo of his card and I would have expected  him to contact 
Ulster Bank immediately to say that it had been  compromised and to cancel  it. So Im not 
persuaded that this happened. 
The three disputed  transactions were all made  online. The first one, for £150, required the 
person carrying out the transaction to verify the payment. Verification is an added extra layer 
of security required by Visa, which asks the card holder to provide a password or an 
authorising code which is sent to their mobile phone.  Even if an unknown third party  had 
managed to obtain Mr Gs card details there  is no convincing explanation of how they would 
have known his personal verification password or have access to his mobile phone.  So Im 
not persuaded that Mr G didnt make this payment himself. 
The other two payments  were made to an online site, requiring an account to be opened.  
The two payments were  for membership fees. Mr G says that he didnt make  these  
payments, but if he didnt  set up the account himself, I consider the person who did knew  his 
debit card details. As I have already explained, the terms of Mr Gs account say that Mr G 
should keep the card safe. I think it is more likely than not that Mr G signed up and gave  his 
card details for an initial subscription.  I accept that Mr G might not have expected  the second 
amount of £7.95  to be taken but when card details are provided in this way the business will 
continue to collect the monthly  payments  using  the debit card, unless the subscription is 
cancelled. 
So from all that Ive seen,  whilst I accept  I cant know exactly what  happened,  I think it likely 
that Mr G either made the payments himself or consented to them by allowing someone 
else, known to him, to use his card.  I say this because:
Theres no convincing explanation for how the third party could have got hold of Mr Gs 
card details
I dont think an unknown third party found  or took the card and used it because  Mr G still 
had it in his possession
An unknown third party wouldnt have access to Mr Gs verification password or mobile  
phone to complete  the additional  security  required  to make the £150 payment.
The card details  were used three times  over an eight  day period. I think  an unknown  third 
party would have  tried to use the card details as much and as quickly  as possible,  rather 
than risk Mr G noticing the payments and giving  him a chance to stop the card.
Ref: DRN75413353So on balance, I dont  think its unreasonable for Ulster Bank  to conclude that Mr G 
authorised or consented to the transactions.
Following its investigation  Ulster Bank told Mr G it had decided to close  his account. Banks 
are entitled  to decide for themselves whether or not to do business  and if so on what terms. 
This is the legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement, with which I cannot properly 
interfere  though it is required to treat Mr G fairly. Im satisfied that Ulster Bank gave Mr G 
14 days notice to close the account. I consider this was in accordance with the account 
terms and conditions so Im not persuaded that Ulster Banks actions were unfair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7541335