K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Miss M says that she didnt know that the policy was optional, but I think BoS made it clear 
that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  BoS has provided  a copy of Miss Ms credit  card application, and on this I 
can see that the policy is presented as optional and has been selected. Miss M has also 
signed to confirm that she wants  the policy, which is separate to her signature for the card.  
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - including  what she has said about  having 
good sick pay from her employer which meant she didnt  need the policy. But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of her existing sick pay  and for longer  than she received full pay 
for. So this point doesnt change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Miss M back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand BoS has already paid this to Miss M.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Ref: DRN71852382Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7185238