K820x#14complaint
Mrs B had complained  that AXA France IARD  mis-sold  her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
This policy was sold by a third party acting on behalf of the policy insurer.  I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  was regulated  by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. Mrs B will notice that her complaint was 
originally set up against another business  who were  the original insurer. However,  that 
insurer has now transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill just be referring to AXA in this decision.
background
Mrs B took out the PPI in 1996 at the same time as applying for the card in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she wasnt aware shed taken  out PPI  meaning that it was added  without her 
knowledge or consent. Ive seen a copy of the store card application form that was 
completed at the time of the sale. The form has a separate section for PPI. A box within that 
section has been  ticked to request the policy.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Bs recollection of 
events has faded.  Given the layout and wording of the form, I consider that Mrs B would 
have known that she had a choice  about  buying  the PPI. It seems to me that she probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even  if she no longer remembers doing 
so.
AXA didnt advise  Mrs B to take out the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Mrs B with sufficient information for her to make  an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs Bs employer  would  have given her six months  full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer  than she would have received full pay for. And Mrs B didnt  have any 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think she had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have  been a difficult time.
Ref: DRN70884352Its possible that AXA could have provided  more  information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs B wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think she had an interest in the policy  and decided to buy it, I dont consider that further  
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So shes no worse off as a result of 
anything AXA may have done  wrong, so theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7088435