K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the time it took Elite Insurance Company  Limited (Elite) to pay for his 
heating system to be replaced  following  a claim made under the warranty.
background
Mr B has a thermodynamic water  heating system  (TWHS) in his home,  which has a ten 
year warranty.
In March 2018, the TWHS  failed  and Mr B was put in contact with Elite to have it looked  at 
under his warranty. Elite approved contractors, which  I will refer to as N in this decision, to 
replace the TWHS unit on 4 May 2018.  Sometime after this happened,  the TWHS unit was 
recalled by its suppliers,  so N attended  Mr Bs home again and removed it. Another 
appointment was arranged  for 18 July 2018, so N could fit a new TWHS unit. But, N missed 
this appointment  and informed Mr B that as Elite had not paid them  for their initial  visit, they 
would not be carrying out any further  work  until they received payment.
Elite informed Mr B that the reason it had not yet paid N was because it had put a restricted 
payment protocol in place, which slowed down the rate at which it was making payments for 
claims. It said the payment protocol was because of an interim liquidator  being appointed to 
a third party insurer, who represents most of Elites assets.
As Mr B remained unhappy he referred his complaint  to our service.  He said he wanted a 
new TWHS unit to be fitted  in his home. He also said because  of Elites delays in paying  N, 
he had to use his gas heating, which cost him more to use than his TWHS.
While the complaint was with our service, the restricted  payment protocol was lifted on 
4 October 2018. Elite told us it had a backlog of claims  and it was working  through  them  in 
chronological order. It couldnt confirm how long it would take for Mr Bs claim to be 
considered.
The investigator asked  Mr B how much more  he was paying to use his gas central  heating. 
Mr B said it was difficult to estimate  and he wouldnt be able to provide  evidence of this.
The investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that Elite should pay N no later than 
21 November 2018. He also said that Elite should  pay Mr B £200 for the trouble and upset 
he had experienced as he was unable to determine  Mr Bs financial  loss.
Mr B agreed with the investigators findings.  But, Elite didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  things. It said the restricted  payment protocol was put in place to 
ensure that all its creditors were treated fairly. It also said that it was working to clear  the 
backlog of claims as quickly as possible in chronological order,  so it would be unable  to pay 
N by 21 November 2018. It also didnt agree to pay the compensation as it said the delays 
couldnt have  been avoided.
Since then,  Elite has paid N and a new TWHS unit was fitted  at Mr Bs home in January 
2019.
Ref: DRN70437232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Its not in dispute  that Elites delay in paying N was caused by the restricted  payment 
protocol that was in place at the time. So, what I have to consider is whether it would be fair 
for Elite to compensate Mr B for the impact the delay had on him.
Mr B has said he had to use his gas heating during the period he was without his TWHS. 
I have no reason to doubt what he has said about  this as without being able to use the 
TWHS unit he wouldve  had to heat his home  by some other  means.
Mr B has also said that because he had to use his gas heating,  he incurred higher heating 
bills. Although Mr B hasnt provided  any bills to support this, I understand that one of the 
main benefits of the TWHS is that it is cheaper  to run than gas heating. Mr B also said this 
was his primary reason  for having  the unit fitted. So, I accept that he wouldve most likely 
been paying more for his heating between July 2018 and January 2019 whilst the TWHS unit 
was out of action.
I appreciate why Elite had to put a restricted payment protocol in place and why this resulted 
in delayed payment  to N. But, as Ive said above,  I think  this had a financial impact  on Mr B. 
I also think he wouldve been worried that Elite wouldnt be able to meet its obligations under 
his warranty and that he had lost this vital protection for his TWHS unit. So, while  
I understand the delays in settling Mr Bs claim were somewhat outside of Elites control, 
I think this left Mr B out of pocket and caused him trouble  and upset. As it hasnt been  
possible to estimate Mr Bs financial loss, I think Elite should pay him £200 to compensate  
him for this and the trouble and upset  he experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
My decision  is that Elite Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr B £200 to compensate 
him for his financial loss and the trouble and upset  caused by the delays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7043723