K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester, mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs S bought the policy in 2007  when  taking out a mortgage. The mortgage itself started  in 
April 2008. She applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy  in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £377.66  a month towards  Mrs Ss mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £26.38  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs S was employed as a careers  adviser.  She has told us she was entitled  to 
employee sick pay for six months  if she was too unwell to work because of accident  or 
sickness. She also told us she had around £12,000 in savings. Mrs S says she would also 
receive redundancy pay from her employer.  Mrs S has said she was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2008 and its 
still running. 
Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ss representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ss 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs S and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN72323712The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN72323713GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN72323714-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs S and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds has given us the documents from the time of the sale. These include a copy  of the 
Advice Interview form which included the Statement of Demands and Needs. In that part of 
the form there is a section  entitled PROTECTING YOU AND YOUR MORTGAGE 
(PAYMENT PROTECTION PLUS, ACCIDENT, SICKNESS AND UNEMPLOYMENT 
COVER) where there  are several  questions asked with tick boxes for answering  yes or no. 
The relevant  boxes are ticked  to show that Mrs S wanted the cover.  
Weve also been  given a copy of the signed  proposal form for the PPI which  was completed 
at a later date. The form also included a direct  debit mandate  which has been  filled out and 
signed by Mrs S to allow for the monthly policy premiums to be collected. 
As a result of the mortgage and PPI application,  Lloyds sent its mortgage offer letter  to     
Mrs S. In that letter there is a section entitled  Insurance with a sub-heading of Optional 
Insurance which showed the monthly  cost of the PPI premium.  So, I think  these documents 
would have made clear  to Mrs S that she had a choice about  taking the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs S knew the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it did provide  advice  during this sale. Mrs S has told us that she cant remember 
if advice was given.  As Mrs S hasnt given me anything  to contradict what  Lloyds has told us, 
Im persuaded that its most likely  it did give Mrs S advice.   
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs S. The adviser had information  about  some of Mrs Ss financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  But although a demands and needs statement was 
completed to try and establish whether Mrs S had a need for the policy   by asking 
questions about  her wider  circumstances  such  as any health issues and existing means  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I can see from the demands and 
needs statement  the adviser did ask Mrs S about  existing  cover.  But cover might mean 
other policies and not necessarily sick pay or savings that Mrs S may have had. So, Mrs S 
Ref: DRN72323715might not have volunteered this information  based on her understanding of cover unless it 
had been further explained  to her.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs S given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs S, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Ss ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs S was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the savings Mrs S has told 
us she had and her employee benefits  she would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs S. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ss employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that Mrs S be disabled or unemployed  for 60 days before she could make  a claim 
and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim), the policy still provided valuable cover given:
Mrs Ss circumstances,  including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments  for which Mrs S was 
solely responsible   relating to her home and the potential consequences 
should Mrs S be unable to make  the repayments  on loans secured against 
her house. The policy would also have meant that Mrs Ss savings remained 
intact or could be used for other expenses.  
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs S was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs S was 
Ref: DRN72323716unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs S would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs S agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs S Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Mrs S all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs S? To what extent  did Mrs S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs S. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs S 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
Ref: DRN72323717While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs S, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs S has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs S says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ss circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs S knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told her the exact premium at the point  Mrs S applied  
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mrs S would have been told the cost before 
the policy started  as it was provided  in the mortgage offer letter  and she paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with her expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with Lloyds at the time,  or 
reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs S would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs S would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ss expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if anything,  it 
is more likely than not that the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than she 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN72323718The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  (albeit a claim could be 
considered if Mrs S had remained  symptom  free for 24 months prior to the claim; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs S pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs S was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs S wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs S didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs S would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs S that any claim  she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but she 
had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs S would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs S be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk, and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Ss employee  benefits and savings for other  use.
To make an accident and sickness  claim,  Mrs S simply  had to get her accident or sickness 
certified by a doctor (after the first seven days of self-certification), which  I dont think 
wouldve been very different, if at all to what she might have expected  to do.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs S was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN72323719Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs S 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs S compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs S thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2007 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs S and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN723237110the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7232371