K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that interest wasnt been  applied on her TSB Bank plc account for two 
years. 
background
Mrs G took out a Classic Plus account with TSB in April 2016.  She opened the account 
online, and registered for online banking the same  day. Mrs G feels there were no prompts  
at this stage to register for paperless statements or correspondence. 
The terms of the account mean that interest is only paid to a customer  if they fulfil certain  
conditions. One of these is that the customer must be registered for paperless  statements 
and paperless  correspondence.  Mrs G was not registered for either  of these, so she didnt 
receive interest on her account from when it was open until September 2018 when she 
registered for both.  
Mrs G is unhappy interest  wasnt applied on her account during that period. She says she 
had no knowledge  of this condition and assumed  shed be automatically registered for 
paperless statements  and correspondence.  She thinks the missed  interest  should  be paid to 
her, so she complained to TSB about this. 
TSB didnt  uphold Mrs Gs complaint. They said she hadnt met the conditions required,  so 
they didnt think  theyd made an error  by not applying the interest.  But they also thought 
theyd taken too long to reply to her complaint, so they sent her £25 compensation in 
recognition of this. 
Mrs G was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Having looked  into it, our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He thought  TSB had 
made the requirements clear on several occasions.  And that TSB had given customers  
enough information to make them  aware theyd need to change their settings in order  to 
receive interest.   
As Mrs G disagreed with the investigators  opinion the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Gs account outline  that a customer must fulfil certain  
requirements in order  to receive interest. One of these conditions is that a customer  must be 
registered for paperless statements  and paperless correspondence. 
Ive seen an image of the website around  the time Mrs G opened her account.  On the same 
page as the button Apply  online today  is a description of how to earn interest, including the 
need to register  for paperless statements and correspondence. So I think TSB made this 
clear and prominent at the point Mrs G was applying to open  her account.
Ref: DRN73606792Ive also looked  at whether Mrs G was made  aware of these requirements once she had 
opened her account,  in order  to see if TSB have  acted fairly. Having done so, I think TSB 
made the requirements clear in a number  of different ways. 
Mrs G has provided  a leaflet she was provided  when she enquired about the Classic Plus 
account. This leaflet  states the requirements to earn interest. But these are in small print,  so 
Id want to see that TSB also made  this requirement  clear in other ways. 
Ive seen copies  of two annual statements from Mrs Gs account. On page two of these  
statements there is an explanation of the requirements to earn interest on the account. This 
can be found under the subheading Your Interest Rates on page two. 
TSB have  also said Mrs G wouldve  been presented with screen prompts  when logging  into 
her online banking. Theyve provided  a copy of this prompt. It advises customers  of the need 
to register for online statements and correspondence in order  to be eligible to receive  
interest. TSB has provided notes from its internal system to confirm that on several  
occasions Mrs G responded to the prompts by selecting the option No Thanks. 
So taking into account all of the above,  I think Mrs G was given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the terms  and conditions of her account.  I think the requirements to earn 
interest were  made clear. So I cant say TSB has made an error  here.    
I understand Mrs G feels she shouldve been  automatically registered for paperless 
statements and correspondence.  But they arent under an obligation to do this. I think  TSB 
did enough to explain the terms of the account to Mrs G and I cant  ask TSB to automatically 
register its customers for paperless statements. This would be a decision  for them  to make,  
and down to their own commercial judgement. So I dont think  TSB need to do anything  
more in these  circumstances.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7360679