K820x#14complaint
On behalf of his business,  firm J Mr A complains that Aviva  Insurance Company Limited 
and its agent provided poor service after he made a claim  on firm Js commercial motor 
insurance policy.
background
Firm Js van was damaged in a non-fault accident  on the evening of 25 September  2018.  
Avivas agent instructed  a recovery firm (firm  T) to collect  it. The van was taken to firm Ts 
yard pending  delivery to a garage for assessment. Mr A wanted to collect furniture that was 
in the van, as hed already arranged for contractors  to construct it and had to pay them. He 
says Aviva or its agent  told him to travel to firm Ts yard twice to collect it. Mr A (plus a van 
and a driver  hed paid to assist him) found the yard was closed on both occasions. Mr T said 
each trip cost him £600.  
Firm T took the van to the garage  on 29 September 2018, where it was declared  a total loss. 
Mr A said he wanted to retain the salvage. There were then problems in finding a recovery 
firm to deliver the van back to Mr A. Aviva said that was mainly because of the nature of the 
damage to it. Mr A said the van had been  damaged further by Avivas agent  after the 
accident. He said as it was delivered back to him late, he lost earnings waiting around. And 
he said the mechanics  hed paid to dismantle it couldnt do so as the van wasnt there.  
Aviva offered £500 compensation  for inconvenience, plus £100 for a damaged rear light.  As 
the van was written-off,  Aviva paid the pre-accident  market value for it. It discounted around 
£800 from the deduction it made for Mr A keeping the salvage. He thought Aviva should pay 
for all the other losses he said hed incurred, amounting to over £7,000. But Aviva said these 
werent justified and that Mr A was trying  to claim for some  uninsured  losses.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint Mr A made to us. He thought  Aviva  had 
acted reasonably. He said it had warned Mr A that firm Ts site may not be open before he 
made the trips to it. He noted the problems  that recovery agents  had raised  about  returning 
the van to Mr A from the garage.  He said it was Mr As decision to engage mechanics to deal 
with the van when there was always a chance its delivery might  be delayed.  And although 
Mr A had said Aviva promised to pay for any errors caused by its agent, the investigator 
couldnt see any evidence  of that.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided a lot of information in support of his complaint. I wont  be addressing 
every point hes made, but Ill comment on the issues I think  are central to his case.   
wasted journeys 
I can see how frustrating it must have been  for Mr A to have made two wasted trips to 
firm Ts storage yard, which was three hours  away from his home. He says Aviva or its agent 
told him to go there, and said it was open  24 hours a day. I havent found anything  in the file 
or in the numerous call recordings Ive listened  to that shows  anyone gave him that advice. 
Ref: DRN75502992In some of the calls to Aviva Mr A says hes been  told the yard is open or is accessible 
through security  staff at all times.  I have  no reason  to doubt that Mr A conveyed  his 
understanding of the situation to Aviva.   But I think the calls show  that Aviva discouraged 
him from making the trips.  An advisor told him before the first trip that he may have a wasted 
journey, as there was no guarantee hed get access to the site from security staff. Mr A says 
before he made the second  trip he was told that he would get access to the van if he gave 
firm T 40 minutes  notice of his arrival, but that didnt happen.  
I havent seen  anything to show that Mr T was advised to make the trip a second time.  I 
know he was very keen to retrieve the furniture from the van - and he insists  he was given 
the advice hes told us about.  But he hasnt  been  able to show that was the case. I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to say Aviva is responsible for the inconvenience  he faced or for 
any costs arising from the trips he made.
furniture 
Mr A says he lost over £1,000 when he had to pay the contractors who were  ready  to 
construct the furniture  he wasnt  able to collect. I can see why that would have caused Mr A 
even more frustration.  But it seems the booking was made  before the accident.  I dont think 
its Avivas fault it had to be cancelled.  In any event, the expense Mr A incurred was an 
uninsured loss, so Aviva  couldnt be required to pay for it. 
late return of the van
Theres no doubt that there was undue delay in getting the van back to Mr A from the 
garage. I think the file notes show that Aviva was frustrated at times with the action  or lack 
of it - on the part of its agent. There was also a delay at one point when one of Avivas 
advisors gave its agent the wrong  advice.  And the notes  show  that a problem arose when a 
recovery agent noted that the van was in a dangerous condition,  due to sharp  edges  from 
the damage it had sustained. Aviva and its agent had to look into instructing a different 
recovery agent. The recovery agent had difficulty in loading the van onto a recovery vehicle, 
as the damage  to the vans rear had made  it unstable. There  was also a suggestion that the 
van had a leak, although I cant see that this issue was ever confirmed. I think  all these 
problems led to the vans return being delayed.   
Mr A was unhappy that the recovery agent didnt initially agree to deliver the van to a 
location of his choice. And there  was some confusion later about where it would be delivered 
to. I think  Mr As frustration with the delay and the confusion  was understandable. But I also 
think that most of the debate that went on around this time was necessary. I think  some of 
the delay was unavoidable, given  the state  of the van. In my opinion, Aviva took time to try to 
ensure that the plans for its delivery  posed  the least risk of further damage. And it also 
accepted responsibility for some of the delay.
Mr A says he was wrongly promised  the van was due to be delivered by Avivas agent 
several times. He says he had mechanics waiting to dismantle  it before  it arrived.  Although I 
think the van should have been delivered  as promised, I dont think it was reasonable to 
arrange for the work to be done  (on more  than one occasion) before the van arrived  on site. 
There had already been delays, and a further  delay was always  a real possibility. I havent 
seen any receipts for the costs Mr A incurred. And I think it was reasonable for Aviva to point 
out that the mechanics  could have carried out other work when the van didnt arrive.  
extra damage to the van
Ref: DRN75502993Mr A says Avivas agent caused damage  to the vans roof, and to its rear, where there  was 
already accident  damage. We checked with Aviva that all the extra damage was taken  into 
account when  its engineer  decided  on the much lower sum to be deducted for the salvage. 
We also checked whether  Aviva  accepted  that two rear lights  were damaged, although it had 
only offered to pay Mr A for one light. Avivas  engineer said that was an oversight on his 
part, and Aviva has agreed to pay £100  for the extra light. 
advice on compensation 
In the calls I listened to, Avivas advisors were  sympathetic to Mr A. They said if hed lost 
money hed be recompensed. One advisor  said that what hed been through  was terrible  and 
hed be compensated for it. Another advisor  said hed be paid if hed lost any business. But 
as far as I can see, the nature of his losses and the limitations of the policys cover  werent  
discussed. So I think Mr As expectations would have been raised by what the advisors said.
Mr A hasnt produced  any evidence  of lost earnings, and he had a replacement van through 
credit-hire. It seems from the file that Aviva  took over the payments for that later on, so he 
should have been able to carry  out firm Js business. Loss of earnings isnt covered by the 
policy anyway. I dont  think the advisors  made  it clear to Mr A that uninsured losses could be 
pursued against the other drivers insurer. But Aviva clarified the situation after Mr A 
complained to it and gave  him details of the other insurer at that point. 
extent of compensation
Aviva took much less from the sum deducted  for salvage that it would otherwise have done 
due to the extra damage caused to the van. I think the general service  Mr A got from Aviva  
and its agent was poor in many respects,  but I think £500 is a reasonable sum to make up 
for the inconvenience  caused to the business. I have no doubt  that Mr A was distressed by 
all that happened, and I sympathise with him. But the policy only covers  firm J. As I think  
Aviva acted reasonably  overall, I cant uphold Mr As complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A on behalf of firm J to accept or reject  my 
decision before  12 June 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7550299