K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the service he received  from HSBC  UK Bank Plc and the appointed 
conveyancing firm when  he carried out a remortgage.
background 
In February 2019  Mr F applied for a remortgage with HSBC  through  a mortgage broker.  
HSBC set out the information it needed  and a valuation was carried out on 21 February.
HSBC received most of the information it needed from the mortgage broker and the 
outstanding information was requested on 14 February.
On 16 March HSBC  notified the broker that it was cancelling the application as the 
outstanding information hadnt  been received. The broker asked that it be reinstated on 
19 March saying the information was ready,  and that was received by HSBC  on 21 March.
The case  was underwritten and a mortgage  offer was issued on 25 March.  HSBC instructed 
the conveyancer  the same day, and the conveyancer  sent out its welcome pack the following 
day.
On 28 March Mr Fs mortgage broker complained to HSBC that there  was a delay in the 
conveyancer being  provided with Mr Fs contact details which  had delayed  matters. HSBC 
confirmed the only contact method that had been omitted was Mr Fs email  address and 
everything else had been provided. It said the pack had been posted by the conveyancer on 
26 March so should be with Mr F by then anyway.
Completion was originally set for 30 April but there was a problem with the paperwork, with 
completion finally taking  place on 2 May.
HSBC offered to cover  the interest  cost of the delayed completion  from 30 April to 2 May, a 
sum of £139.09 and pay an extra  £150 in recognition of any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator thought HSBCs offer was fair. Mr F didnt agree and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  my summary of the background 
above doesnt include every contact between  the parties. I confirm Ive read everything 
provided by both sides. Ive taken  note of everything  thats  been  said, but I wont be 
responding to each  and every point, or in as much  detail. No discourtesy is intended by this; 
it simply reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Having looked  at everything, and kept in mind normal industry practice,  Im not persuaded 
(as I must be if Im to uphold this complaint)  that this application was unreasonably and 
significantly delayed by HSBC and/or  the conveyancer.
Its not a matter of just looking at dates, we have  to think about which  days  were working 
days (rather than weekends and/or bank holidays).
Ref: DRN72870722The first gap was between 14 February and 21 March, and this was when HSBC  was 
awaiting the information it needed from Mr Fs mortgage broker.  This accounts for 25 
working days.
The other gap was between 26 March and 30 April, which was the period between the 
conveyancer being  instructed and the date they originally tried to complete. This accounts 
for 23 working days (as the Easter  break  fell in that time).
Mr F has sent us a letter from the conveyancer  that talks about  10 days  to complete the 
mortgage, and he says he was told that if HSBC had provided  his email address then 
completion could  have taken place within days. Ive considered these points carefully but Im 
not persuaded by them.
The letter says Please be aware  that it may take 10 days  from receipt of all correctly  
completed documentation and your Mortgage Offer to complete your mortgage for you. And 
immediately above  that it says We will not guarantee  a specific completion  date as we rely 
on third parties to provide information  or funds
The 23 working  days the conveyancer took to complete the legal  side of the remortgage 
here was not at all outside what Id class as normal  in these cases. Whilst the letter 
mentioned 10 days, that wasnt a promise or guarantee. Sometimes conveyancing firms like 
this experience spikes in their workload,  and unfortunately that means people have to wait in 
a queue. Its not the fault of HSBC or the conveyancer  that the mortgage was only ready to 
have a formal  offer produced on 25 March  when Mr Fs existing  preferential  rate was ending 
on 31 March. So it wasnt their responsibility to prioritise Mr Fs remortgage  over other 
customers that had received  their mortgage offers before  him, nor to move  things through 
more quickly than they otherwise would.
That said,  HSBC has admitted something went  wrong  at the end that led to completion being  
delayed by a few days, and for that it offered £139.09 to cover  the additional interest. Having 
considered everything  that seems fair, when taken with the £150 offer of compensation it 
also made for any mis-information given  and unclear communication.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7287072