K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance) handled  her Subject  Access Request (SAR).
Much of the correspondence in this complaint is styled from Barclays Partner  Finance (BPF) 
so for ease of reading Ill mainly refer to the business as BPF in this decision.
background
In 2018 Mrs M complained about the quality of her new double-glazed windows which were 
installed by a company  Ill call S and paid for by way of a fixed  sum loan from BPF. A 
decision was issued  by one of my ombudsman colleagues in 2019  upholding the complaint. 
Mrs Ms loan was cancelled, her payments were refunded,  and she was awarded substantial  
compensation.
This complaint arises from the way BPF responded to a SAR Mrs M made in respect of the 
original complaint. She didnt believe BPF had acted in accordance with data protection  
regulations. BPF admitted  it had handled  the request poorly and offered £100 compensation. 
Mrs M referred  her concerns to the Information Commissioner (ICO),  the body which  deals 
with data protection and information security  matters.
The ICO replied to Mrs Ms complaint  about  BPFs response to her SAR in January 2019.  It 
separated out the concerns which it said were better suited to other organisations such  as 
ours or Action Fraud. On the issues it could consider, the ICO wasnt satisfied BPF had 
complied with its data protection obligations  and set out what  it needed to do to put things  
right. But it didnt award any compensation. Following the ICO response BPF wrote to Mrs M 
to advise when  shed receive the additional  information and it also explained the terms and 
abbreviations used it in its customer  notes. It apologised  and offered £100  compensation. 
Mrs M still believed  information had been  incorrectly withheld or redacted and that 
information had been falsified. 
So she referred  her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and initially thought  it was one we shouldnt 
consider as the subject matter was more  appropriate for the ICO. But on reflection he 
thought we could look at whether BPF had treated Mrs M fairly.  Having done  so he didnt 
think £100 reflected  the impact of BPFs errors on Mrs M while  she was going through  an 
anxious time. So he recommended BPF pay her £350. 
BPF accepted this but Mrs M didnt.  She thinks BPF has treated her appallingly  and should 
be compelled to provide  her with information she believes it has withheld.  And although she 
isnt motivated by money she feels BPF hasnt been punished for its failings. 
So Mrs M would like an ombudsman to review  the complaint,  although she is still considering  
taking the matter to court  if she doesnt  receive  a satisfactory outcome.  So the case has 
been passed to me to issue a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN72409062Im sorry  to hear that as well as the disruption  and worry arising from the poor window  
installation, Mrs J has suffered ill health requiring surgery. So I appreciate shes  been 
through a difficult  time. But having  looked  at everything carefully Ive come  to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  Let me explain  why.
The file in this case is very large as Mrs M has made many detailed  submissions. Im aware  
that Ive summarised  the background in far less detail than Mrs M has done and using my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. But our rules allow me to focus on what I 
think are the key issues and reflects the nature of our service  as an informal  alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. But I dont 
need to comment  on each individual point to reach  a fair and reasonable outcome. I also 
dont feel its necessary to issue a provisional decision in this case as Mrs M has assumed. 
Its important to say this decision can only relate  to BPF as our service only covers firms 
which are authorised by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA).  So I wont  be commenting 
on the actions  of S the window company (or its agents), as it isnt a firm which  falls within  
our jurisdiction. I also wont address  concerns relating  to the practical  handling of the 
complaint whilst its been with us, or our response to the SARs Mrs M made to this service.  
These follow separate processes and Mrs M has had responses  and been given referral 
rights to the Independent Assessor and the ICO for those issues.  
I dont need to look further into whether BPF complied with its data protection obligations as 
the ICO has already  reached an outcome on this point. And BPF has admitted its errors  and 
offered an apology and compensation. In view of Mrs Ms further concerns the ICO 
conducted a case  review which is the final stage  of its process. The ICO was satisfied by 
BPFs assurance it had provided Mrs M with all the information she was entitled  to receive 
and didnt consider further action was necessary. If Mrs M wished to take matters  further  it 
suggested she seek legal advice about applying to the court for disclosure
Mrs M would  prefer this service to resolve  her concerns about BPFs response  to her SAR 
as we offer informal dispute resolution,  as an alternative to the courts.  Mrs M has stressed 
she is not pursuing her complaint for financial gain, but to obtain all the information  shes  
entitled to from BPF. But unfortunately  the outcome Mrs M is hoping for isnt something  this 
service can provide. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service and the ICO have different responsibilities  and powers. 
Compliance with data protection obligations is not a regulated  activity  as set out in our rules, 
and Mrs M has been told the ICO, not this service, is the expert body on data protection.  But 
only a court can make a judgment on whether BPF has failed to comply  with the relevant 
legislation. While the ICO does have a regulatory  function and the power  to issue fines  for 
serious breaches, which our service doesnt  have, the ICO cant  award  compensation to 
individuals. Whereas  for complaints within our jurisdiction, we aim where  possible to put a 
consumer in the position they would have been in, had the error not occurred. And we can 
award compensation based on the impact of an error on a particular individual.  
This complaint arose from a complaint about  a regulated activity (the provision  of finance 
and a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act). So although this complaint isnt 
about a regulated activity, our rules permit me to consider whether BPF has treated Mrs M 
fairly and whether the compensation offered reflects the impact  of its error. 
Although theres  no dispute BPF did something wrong in the way it handled Mrs Ms SAR Im 
satisfied this didnt  cause her any financial loss. As I said earlier Im not referring here to the 
problems with her windows, which has been dealt  with by way of a separate  final decision. 
Ref: DRN72409063But Mrs M has explained how stressful she found the whole situation particularly at a time 
when she was in poor health. So Ive looked  at how much  of the undoubted  stress she 
experienced was caused  by BPFs handling of the SAR. 
Mrs M has listed many specific  items (documents, calls, notes and communications  between  
the parties) relating  to her complaint which she says BPF has failed to disclose to her. Some  
of these shed  already  received from other sources,  and some may be held by parties other  
than BPF. I cant say even if all these items existed, whether Mrs M would be entitled to 
receive them from BPF in response to a SAR.  As I understand  it, the legislation allows for 
various circumstances  where  information  can be withheld  or redacted,  for example  to protect 
the personal data of other individuals. Im also aware our investigator sent Mrs M all the 
information hed relied on when reaching  his outcome on the complaint. Which  is the same  
information Ive reviewed when issuing this decision. But I think  its unlikely any of the 
missing  information would change the outcome on this case, or indeed  the original 
complaint.
The error BPF made  was in its initial response to the SAR.  So Ive thought about the impact 
of that on Mrs M, and the additional inconvenience she was caused by having  to follow  up 
the request.  I accept  it was frustrating and added  to the stress she was experiencing. But I 
think much  of that stress  related to the window  installation  on top of her health problems, 
which I cant fairly say was down to BPF.  And I bear in mind that even if BPF had disclosed 
everything Mrs M was entitled  to at the outset  I dont think that would have benefitted  her in 
any material way. Her complaint about the windows was upheld and she received 
compensation regardless of the response  to the SAR. So having  considered  everything 
carefully Ive seen no evidence the response to the SAR caused  any actual detriment other 
than the time and effort spent chasing  it up. So I think the £350 proposed by the investigator 
is about right.
Mrs M asked  for guidance about  whether accepting compensation to resolve her complaint  
would prevent her taking  the matter to court. Generally speaking,  once a final decision  has 
been accepted by the consumer, it becomes legally binding on both parties.  It wouldnt be 
fair to expect  BPF to pay compensation in settlement of a complaint without the certainty of 
knowing it wont also face court action for the same issue. But Im aware this decision and 
the compensation awarded only relates to the emotional impact  on Mrs M from BPFs failure 
to fully comply with her SAR request. It doesnt  make a finding on whether data protection  
legislation has been complied with, or if any of her personal data has been  processed 
incorrectly. So if Mrs M is still intent on pursuing that matter through  the courts then she may 
wish to seek legal advice  before accepting this decision as long as she does so within the 
deadline. 
However if Mrs M doesnt accept, or doesnt  respond by the deadline, then the decision  isnt 
binding on either  party. But of course a court may take it into consideration, as the business 
can refer to it in evidence. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should  pay Mrs M £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.
Ref: DRN72409064Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7240906