K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc sent him misleading credit card statements.
background
Mr T has a credit  card with HSBC.  In 2018  he set up a direct debit for £300  a month, which  
was intended  to pay off his credit  card balance within  38 months. But his credit  card 
statement incorrectly showed this payment  as £285 instead. This error  has not been 
explained. Mr T complained, and pointed out that if this error had been repeated every 
month then he would still have owed £570 at the end of the 38 months,  instead  of clearing 
his balance. He asked to be paid £570 (half to him and half to charity).
HSBC explained  that although  the statement had been incorrect,  the correct amount of £300 
had been debited from his account. So his credit card balance would have been cleared on 
schedule. HSBC declined  to pay him £570,  and paid him £75 instead.  Being dissatisfied with 
that response, Mr T complained to our Service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that as the correct amount had 
been debited and Mr T had not incurred any financial loss, £75 was fair compensation.
Mr T emphasised the importance of accurate statements and explained how much 
inconvenience he had been put to. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Mr T that it is important that statements  should be accurate. I dont know why 
the statement  said £285 instead of £300.  But I dont need to get to the bottom of that, 
because my role is only to decide  what is fair compensation for this error.
I appreciate that Mr T was caused  some  anxiety by the error, and that he spent time 
speaking to HSBC  about this matter.  However, he was never  really  going to find himself in 
the position of still owing  £570 after 38 months,  because the correct  amount was paid 
towards the credit card balance.
While I recognise Mr Ts strength of feeling  about this incident, £75 is in line with the level of 
award our Service would typically make for this kind of complaint. He has asked for a 
breakdown of how this figure was arrived at, but its not really  a case of £25 for this and £25 
for that, as he described in his question. Rather, its an overall  figure for everything.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, because the £75 HSBC has paid is fair 
compensation.
Ref: DRN74610022Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7461002