K820x#14complaint
C  a commercial partnership, which Ill call the partners   has complained about a fixed  
rate loan which the partners took out from Lloyds Bank PLC in 2013.
Theyve said that the bank didnt give them enough  information about different loan options 
and about the implications  of fixing the rate, particularly about the potential size of the break  
costs that might be payable if the partners repaid the loan early. 
They also think ten years  was too long to fix, as one of the partners was 74 years old when 
the loan started. 
Via their representative theyve also said that the interest rate included  a hidden profit, which  
was unfair  and made it difficult for the partners to compare the cost of borrowing with other 
lenders. 
background
The partners wanted to buy additional  property and land. To do this, they refinanced  loans 
they already had with another lender and borrowed additional money, all via Lloyds.  The 
lending was split between variable and fixed rates  with around two-thirds  of the borrowing 
at a fixed rate for ten years. 
Our adjudicator found that the information the bank provided about break costs didnt 
adequately explain  the potential cost of early exit from the fixed  rate. But she thought  that 
fixing part of the borrowing  for ten years was appropriate for the partnerships business 
model. She concluded  that, even if the bank had provided better  information  about  break  
costs, the partners would still have gone ahead with a fixed rate for ten years. 
She said that the bank wasnt required to disclose profit on individual  transactions. The 
partners were aware that variable rates were available  part of their borrowing  was at a 
variable rate. While  the cost of the fixed rate increased on the day the deal was booked,  the 
partners could have  opted to take the borrowing on a variable rate if they were unhappy with 
the rate quoted. 
The partners didnt  accept  the adjudicators conclusions. They say theyd assumed that the 
fixed rate quoted would  apply across all banks and that only the margin would vary between  
them. They say that instead it appears  that Lloyds figure for cost of funds included a hidden 
profit element. 
The partners say they chose to borrow from Lloyds  on the basis of the margin  it quoted.  
They couldnt compare  rates on the day the loan was drawn down and the rate was booked, 
nor could they refuse to go ahead with the fixed rate quoted to them on that day as they 
were committed to completing the property and land purchase. 
They dont think that fixing the rate for ten years  was appropriate where one of the partners  
was already in their seventies. The bank had recently  been  reluctant to allow one of the 
other partners to leave  the partnership without breaking the loan, which  suggested that the 
banks default  position was to insist that the loan should be repaid  if one of the partners  
died or withdrew  from the partnership. The partners say the bank breached either its duty to 
give good advice  or its duty of care when  the partners entered into the fixed rate loan.  
Ref: DRN79910912Regarding other lending  possibilities, the partners say they would  have chosen  a variable 
rate loan instead of the fixed  rate loan if theyd  been adequately informed not only about the 
potential break costs but also about the hidden profit. 
The partners also say that the hidden  profit  unfairly  increases the size of the break  costs.
The partners say they wish to repay  the loan and take advantage of lower interest rates  but 
theyre unable  to do so because  of the high break costs  costs  which  the ombudsman 
service accepts werent properly explained  to them and which are even higher because  of 
the hidden profit. They ask how that can be fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the partners but 
my decision  is not to uphold their complaint.  My reasons are broadly similar to those of the 
adjudicator.
My findings  regarding the possible  hidden  profit are as follows:
The partners claim of the possible existence of a hidden profit, as argued by their 
representative, lacks  precision and corroborating evidence.  Its not for the 
ombudsman service  to go looking for that evidence on the partners behalf.
There was no legal  or regulatory requirement for the bank to supply the partners with 
information about what profit the bank  derived  from the fixed interest  rate it charged.
The fixed  interest rate expressly included regulatory costs.  So it wasnt  the case that 
the partners could assume the rate only took account of the market cost of funds or 
that the rate was or was likely to be more or less the same across all banks.
But if the partners  made such an assumption, the bank wasnt  responsible for that.
The fixed  rates offered by the bank  were clearly affected by movements in market  
rates. The bank didnt mislead  the partners  when it attributed  an increase in the 
indicative fixed rate  the rate the partners finally opted for  to market movements. 
But the bank didnt say that the indicative fixed rate was determined  only by the 
markets.
In terms of the fixed rate period for a commercial loan such  as this, surely what  
mattered to the partners, and what  matters  to borrowers in a similar situation, is the 
overall fixed rate including margin  that is payable  ie what  is the overall rate/price  
payable for the first ten years?  That is the bottom  line and what  I think borrowers are 
going to compare when considering alternative  loans.
So I dont accept  that the partners,  in terms of the fixed rate period, would have 
simply been interested in the margin offered by Lloyds and its competitors.  They 
would also have  been very much  interested in the fixed  rate less the margin   indeed 
the partners asked for and received indicative quotes at various times for that rate.
I accept it would have  been difficult for the partners to say no to the fixed rate offered 
by the bank when it had to complete the property purchase. But that was an inherent  
feature of the legal  situation  (ie a loan-assisted property purchase)  in which the 
partners found  themselves.  The bank  had always made it clear that the fixed  rates it 
was quoting were  indicative and would or might change until finally fixed on the day 
of drawdown. 
So to summarise this aspect, Ive found no reason to find fault with the bank over the 
interest rate it charged on the loan. In particular, I havent concluded that the bank in 
some way misled the partners or overcharged  them. The bank offered the partners a 
Ref: DRN79910913clear overall  price for the loan, both in the first ten years and for the remaining 15 
years, and the partners accepted that price. 
I dont accept that the bank advised  the partners in relation  to the fixed rate loan or that it 
owed the partners a duty to advise them or a duty of care to tell them the loan was 
inappropriate (if indeed  it was). Nor did the bank  have  a duty to offer the partners other loan 
options. The loan documents expressly excluded such duties, but nor for that matter does 
the evidence indicate the bank did in fact give the partners advice or voluntarily  assumed a 
duty of care to them. For the record, the bank  didnt make it a condition that the partners 
should enter into the fixed rate loan.  The partners could  have  borrowed entirely on the 
variable rate if theyd  wished. 
That being  so, it was for the partners to decide if the fixed rate loan was right for them.  The 
written loan agreement  included the death of a partner or a change  in the partnership among 
the potential events of default  whereupon the bank could choose to make the loan 
immediately repayable. So these were factors for the partners to assess when considering 
whether to enter into the loan.
Before the partners entered into the fixed rate loan,  the bank drew the partners attention  to 
the possibility  of break costs and gave them standard literature in which examples, including  
amounts, were given.  The bank  also gave the partners some examples tailored to their 
particular loan. Both sets of examples  gave  some sizeable  figures  for possible break costs.  I 
accept, however, that the break costs might potentially have exceeded the amounts in the 
examples the bank  gave.
So I have  to decide what if any difference it would have made if the partners had known  the 
break costs  might be larger than the bank indicated. 
On balance, I consider  the partners would still have gone ahead with the loan. Market 
interest rates were very low in 2013.  The partners representative says the overall fixed rate 
to which  the partners agreed  wasnt  very attractive but it was at least fixed  for the next ten 
years, and that had its advantages in terms of ensuring the loan remained affordable.  
There was no obvious wish or need  that was evident  in 2013 for the partners to repay the 
loan before 2023. Even though the break costs in the banks examples werent as large  as 
they might  have turned out to be, they were still quite sizeable. So if the death  of the most 
senior partner within  ten years was considered so probable as to be an issue,  this might 
have been expected to count against  the fixed rate anyway. However, it didnt.
There is evidence  a phone call between one of the partners and a representative of the 
bank three  days before  the rate was fixed  indicating that the possibility of one of the 
partners dying and the effect this could have on the loan and break costs (albeit 
unquantified), were  actively considered  by the partners, but the loan went ahead 
nonetheless. The call also shows that the partner taking part was in principle ready to go 
ahead with the fixed rate loan despite having been  stung by break  costs  in the past.  
The partners have  referred to the initial reluctance of the bank more recently to release one 
of the partners (not the most senior) from the loan without the loan being repaid. However, 
the circumstances that apparently prompted the retirement of the partner werent  
foreseeable in 2013. So its unlikely they would  have played any part in the decision whether 
to proceed with the fixed rate loan.  And the bank is of course entitled to satisfy itself that its 
Ref: DRN79910914security will still suffice  before it agrees to release any joint borrower from a loan and from 
continuing to provide  security for the loan. Thats so regardless  of the nature  of the loan.  
my final decision
My decision  is not to uphold Cs complaint. I dont consider  that any failings by Lloyds Bank 
PLC caused  the partners  to enter  into the fixed rate loan. Nor do I think the bank dealt with 
the partners unfairly  with regard to the interest  rate under the fixed rate loan. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7991091