K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain  why below.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  Ive been 
given a copy of the application form Mrs S completed at the time. I can see that PPI was 
selected with a printed X. It seems more likely to me that Mrs S agreed to the policy  after a 
discussion with the representative. In any event,  Mrs S signed  the form in which  PPI had 
been selected. After all the years  that have  passed since 1999  I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to think the business  failed  to make it clear  to Mrs S that she had a choice about 
taking the policy.  
Mrs S said that the policy was sold without a formal recommendation. Halifax has provided 
contradictory testimony in this regard. Ive been shown no documentary evidence that 
suggests that the policy was sold on an advised  basis. So Im assessing  the complaint as if 
the PPI was sold without a formal recommendation, as Mrs S said.  So, Halifax had to give 
Mrs S clear  enough information about  the policy so Mrs S could decide if she wanted to buy 
it. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I dont  think better information would have stopped her from buying it. I explain 
why I say that below.  
 
Mrs S was eligible for the policy.  And there are things that sometimes arent  covered by a 
policy like this, or for which the benefit might be more difficult  to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mrs S wouldnt  have  been affected  by those. For instance Mrs S 
told us she was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think that Mrs S had, most  likely, a need  for the cover. I say that because  whilst Mrs S 
told us she was entitled to sick pay I have noted it would have paid out for no more  than six 
months, such that Mrs S would have had to rely on her modest savings or her husband for 
support in the event she was too ill to work.  But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay Mrs S may have been entitled  to, and potentially for longer than Mrs S would 
have received full pay from her employer. It would have allowed her to retain  her savings or 
to use them  to cover any other  outgoings at what would have been a difficult time, and would 
have reduced her reliance  on any help her husband  may have  been  in a position  to provide. 
And the policy would  have  paid out if she lost her job. So, having considered this, on 
balance, I think that Mrs S would have  found  the policy useful.
Ref: DRN71958072So for the reasons given above  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mrs S 
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7195807