K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr H says FICL mis-sold  hhim a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 1995. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr H aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  the 
policy to his card. FICL has told us the PPI was added to Mr Hs card during a phone call 
after he took out his card.
I can see that the PPI was added to Mr Hs card after he applied for it. So I think  its likely 
that Mr H did apply  for the PPI over the phone. I cant know  for certain what was said at the 
time but as Mr H took the policy after taking out the card I think he would have known he 
didnt have to take the policy and chose to have  it, although I can understand why he may 
not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of making his 
repayments which included generous  sick pay, redundancy cover,  savings and help from his 
wife. The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs sick pay, and for longer than he 
would have received full pay, the policy  would  also have  paid out in circumstances  other 
than redundancy,  and protected his savings so they could have been  used  towards other 
essential expenses. While  Mr Hs wife would have wanted to help her ability  to would have 
been dependent on her circumstances  at the time,  which  could have changed. So I dont 
think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
Ref: DRN70235812my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7023581