K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds (CIS)  handling of a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background 
The rear window of Mr Bs car was cracked.  He asked  CIS to arrange repair under the terms 
of his policy. CIS arranged a glass replacement company to do so. The first technician who 
looked at Mr Bs car said that a specialist tool, which he didn't have with him, was required in 
order to remove the rear wiper blade. He told Mr B to buy a replacement wiper  in case  the 
current wiper was damaged in its removal. Mr B bought a replacement wiper and a second 
technician went out to replace the glass. The second technician  removed  the wiper  blade, 
some of the cars trim and panels  and disconnected  some wiring. But he said he couldn't 
complete the repair because  of an issue with a nut and spindle within  the wiper mechanism. 
The technician said Mr B would need  to get this repaired himself.
Mr B didn't  think that was fair and he said the second technician had damaged his car. Mr B 
added that following the second technicians visit his car developed technical  faults  with 
warning lights showing. CIS sent an independent engineer  to look at the car. He couldn't say 
whether or not the technician had damaged the car. The engineer said the car would need to 
be reassembled and then checked by an electrical  mechanic to provide a firm diagnosis.  An 
electrical specialist  then went and looked at the car. He said the glass  technician had left the 
car in a bit of a mess. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that CIS should  return the car to the 
standard it was in before the technicians started working on it. And once that was complete 
Mr B could decide how he wanted  to proceed with the glass  repair.  She added that it should 
pay Mr B £100 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience.
Mr B didn't  think that went far enough  and said he felt £10,000 compensation was 
appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it but 
Im not going  to increase  the compensation our investigator recommended.
In bringing this complaint Mr B has made a number of detailed points. And I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus in what I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessment of Mr Bs complaint.
In order to replace  the glass its apparent that the second technician needed to remove  the 
rear wiper assembly. But he was prevented from doing so because of an issue with a nut 
and spindle. So he said that Mr B would  have to sort out this repair  himself  before the 
technician could replace the glass.
Mr B didn't  think it was his responsibility  to pay for the repair to the wiper mechanism. But I 
think hes wrong. I note that the electrical mechanic has commented  that the wiper spindle  
Ref: DRN77779692had seized. And it appears  that issue with the wiper mechanism was a result of wear and 
tear. So thats  not something that Mr Bs policy covers. That means Mr B would be 
responsible for the repair to the wiper mechanism. And if the technician couldn't  complete 
the glass replacement  because of the seized spindle, then its reasonable that the technician 
told Mr B that hed need to have the mechanism fixed  before the glass could be replaced.  
And if Mr B had done that promptly then CIS could have completed the glass  replacement.  
But as Mr B didnt do so, the glass hasn't  been replaced.
I note CIS discussed with Mr B the possibility of him appointing his own engineer  to 
determine what was the cause of the issues with the car. And I think that was a reasonable 
suggestion. Mr Bs said that he first suggested this. But I don't think  it matters  who 
suggested it first. If Mr B provided engineering evidence that showed that the technician had 
caused any issues, including  with the wiper  mechanism, then I would expect CIS to sort out 
the appropriate repairs. But as far as I'm aware Mr B hasn't instructed an engineer  to assess  
his car. And the evidence on file is that the fault with the wiper mechanism is because of 
wear and tear. So in the absence of any engineering  evidence that shows that the issue with 
the wiper mechanism was caused  by anything other than wear and tear I don't think CIS 
needs to pay to repair that.
But it seems  that, initially  at least, the technician didn't  reassemble  the parts that hed taken 
off, neither  did he reconnect the cars  trim, panels  or electrics. I've noted that the electrical  
mechanic said that the technician had left the car in a bit of a mess. And I don't think that 
was reasonable.  So to put things right I think that CIS should arrange to have  Mr Bs car 
repaired to the standard  it was in before the technicians  began work on it. If the glass  
technicians did any damage, including to the internal panels and trim, then CIS should  
ensure that is corrected.   
Mr B thinks  CIS should pay him £10,000 to address his distress and inconvenience  arising  
from its handling of the claim. But I don't think thats fair. I understand Mr Bs found the 
whole process frustrating and its limited  the use hes had of his car. But as Ive said above I 
dont think that CIS is responsible for all of the issues that have  caused  delays and 
frustration. Thats because if Mr B had paid to have  the wiper  mechanism repaired promptly  
then CIS could have  replaced the glass. So I dont think its fair to blame CIS for all the 
issues that Mr Bs experienced. But as Ive indicated  above I dont think it was fair that the 
technician left the car in a bit of a mess. And to address  Mr Bs distress  and inconvenience 
arising from that I think it should him £100  compensation. I think that sum is reasonable in 
the circumstances as its in line with awards we make in other cases of similar  seriousness.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so I 
require CIS General Insurance  Limited  to:
Take action to return Mr Bs car to the condition it was in before the glass  technicians 
began work on it.
Pay Mr B £100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience arising from 
CIS handling of the claim. It should  pay the compensation within  28 days of us telling 
it that Mr B has accepted  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
1 If CIS pays  interest  and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
Ref: DRN77779693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7777969