K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc approved debit card payments which should have been 
declined. As a result, his current account  became overdrawn and hes incurred bank 
charges. 
Background
Mr C has a current account  with TSB.  Hes explained that during  September 2018 he 
checked his account balance and saw he had £500 available.  He subsequently withdrew 
£250 in cash and made debit card transactions for around £249. A few days later Mr C saw 
that his account  was £500 overdrawn despite  the fact it didnt have an overdraft facility. Mr C 
made a payment to reduce the outstanding balance but has subsequently been  charged for 
being in an unarranged overdraft.
Mr C complained and TSB responded on 16 March  2019. TSB said the way debit card 
transactions had been processed meant Mr Cs account balance  appeared higher. But after 
the pending transactions were processed, Mr Cs account entered  an unarranged overdraft. 
TSB confirmed Mr Cs account had been passed  to its recoveries team  and didnt uphold 
the complaint.  
Mr C asked our service  to look at what had happened and it was passed  to an investigator. 
The investigator thought TSB had dealt with Mr Cs complaint  fairly  so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr C remained unhappy  and said TSB shouldnt have approved transactions  
if he didnt have enough money to cover them. Mr C asked  to appeal so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C is unhappy  at TSBs  decision to approve payments when he didnt have 
enough money to cover  them  and that he also feels the fees hes been charged are unfair.  
Whilst I note Mr Cs concerns, I havent found any evidence that TSB has made a mistake  or 
treated him unfairly. 
TSBs account terms say it may agree to cover  payments with an unarranged overdraft. The 
terms go on to say that if TSB does provide an unarranged overdraft it will charge fees and 
interest. Im satisfied that TSBs  account  terms allow it to make  payments on behalf  of the 
account holder  even  if that means  entering an unarranged overdraft.
TSB also explains that transactions arent always processed immediately. In this case, TSB 
says the time it took for various debit card transactions  to be processed  meant  the available 
balance appeared higher. Whilst I accept that the delay in processing payments can cause 
some confusion, its not something TSB has control  over. I know Mr C says the transactions  
he made took place  on different dates to the ones TSB has supplied, but I think  that reflects 
the nature  of how debit card transactions are processed and that they can appear out of 
sequence. 
Ref: DRN77906432Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but I havent  found anything to show  hes been unfairly charged 
by TSB. The charges  hes paid are because the account entered an unarranged overdraft 
and are in line with the terms. 
As Ive noted above, the available balance can change  due to the way pending transactions  
are processed. So whilst I appreciate Mr C may have genuinely thought  he had £500 
available when he checked his account,  TSB had to subsequently honour  payments hed 
made that hadnt  been processed. As the account  entered an unarranged overdraft TSB can 
apply charges to the account.  I havent  found anything to show  TSB has made a mistake or 
charged the account unfairly. As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7790643