K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains a car Vauxhall  Finance Plc T/A: G.M.A.C (GMAC)  supplied to him under a 
conditional sale agreement wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. 
background
In April 2016 GMAC supplied a car to Mr O under  a conditional sale agreement. It was new 
and cost about £17,000.
In March 2018 Mr O experienced problems with the car and the turbo was replaced  under 
warranty in late March  2018. There were further  problems  in May 2018 and in June 2018 
Mr O asked to reject  the car. 
Later in June/July  2018 further  repair work was completed, this time to the exhaust system. 
But Mr O didnt think the car was performing as it should and had concerns about  future  
problems so he still wanted to reject it.  
GMAC thought it had supplied a car of satisfactory  quality as Mr O had the car for nearly two 
years and travelled  about 18,000 miles before he experienced  any major problems. So it 
didnt think it needed to allow him to reject it. 
Mr O didnt think this was fair so he complained to our service. The investigator thought a 
new car should last longer than two years before experiencing any major problems. So she 
didnt think the car had been of satisfactory  quality when it had been supplied  to Mr O. She 
recommended that GMAC allow him to reject the car, and pay him £150  compensation  in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.  
Mr O accepted the investigators recommendation. GMAC didnt, saying a car has many 
components which have the potential for something  to go wrong, and that following the 
repairs the car is performing as it should.
An agreement couldnt be reached so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) implies  a term into the conditional sale agreement  
that the car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, 
GMAC is responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.
Theres no dispute that there were problems with the car. The issue  is whether these meant 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr O, and if this was the case, 
whether GMAC should have allowed  Mr O to reject  the car.
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect, taking  into account all of the 
relevant circumstances, such as the age and cost of the car. I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect  the car and every component to last forever. But I think  there would be 
a reasonable expectation  that the car - used properly - would perform without any major 
problems for a reasonable period of time. Mr O was supplied with a new car, at a cost of 
Ref: DRN76829612about £17,000. I think a reasonable person would expect this car to perform without any 
major issues for several years, or many  thousands  of miles. 
The car was less than two years old and had only covered about 18,000 miles when the 
problem with the turbo occurred. Theres nothing to suggest the turbo failed  as a result  of 
Mr Os actions - for example his driving  style, or a lack of maintenance. So Im not 
persuaded the car supplied to Mr O was of satisfactory quality as I dont think it was 
sufficiently durable. 
Under the CRA the supplier  has an opportunity to repair the car. The car was repaired at no 
cost to Mr O in late March 2018. This included replacing the turbo. And in late April 2018 the 
car went through its two year service.  No significant problems were identified. But further 
problems arose in early  May 2018.
Mr O wrote to GMAC on 20 June  2018.  He set out how in early May 2018  the engine  
management light came  on. The car was taken to the dealership on 7 May 2018 and 
following an inspection it was established the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) valve  needed 
replacing along with the gasket. Parts were  ordered.  He used the car because he was told 
by the dealership he could, but was later told it shouldnt be driven. So on 26 May 2018  he 
took the car to the dealership and was provided with a courtesy  car. On 9 June 2018 he was 
told an EGR valve had been fitted  but there was still a fault with the car. He got the car back  
on 13 June 2018  but on 16 June 2018 the engine  management light came on. He arranged 
to take the car to the dealership. Mr O said hed lost faith in the reliability of the car and 
asked to reject it. I find his description  of events detailed and credible, and I havent seen 
anything to persuade me this isnt what happened. 
I think at this point Mr O was entitled  to reject the car. I say this because an attempt had 
been made to repair the car but within a short period of time another significant repair was 
needed. Mr O then agreed to a further repair which also failed.  Further  to this, I understand a 
repair on 21 June 2018 (which included replacing  the exhaust  gas recirculation, throttle 
assembly and exhaust manifold)  failed.  Another part (this time an EGR  cooler) was needed, 
so the car remained at the dealership until 11 July 2018. The car had a successful repair  but 
Mr O doesnt think  the car is performing as it should and is worried  - understandably in my 
view - about what problems he might have with the car in the future. 
As Ive said,  I think Mr O was entitled under the CRA to reject  the car when he asked to in 
June 2018. I think  GMAC should have allowed him to. It follows that to resolve this complaint 
I think GMAC should allow Mr O to reject  the car.  So I think GMAC should:
-take the car back at no cost to Mr O;
-cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owing by Mr O, and 
remove any adverse information  from his credit  file; and
-refund  the deposit he paid (£4,000) plus simple  interest at 8% a year from when it 
was paid until when  its refunded.
Mr O has had use of the car (or a courtesy car) on the whole so I dont think he should  
receive any payments  back. But this matter has caused him distress  and inconvenience,  for 
example hes had the hassle of contacting the dealership  and GMAC to get the repairs  
completed, and the disappointment and frustration when those repairs havent  worked.  The 
Ref: DRN76829613investigator recommended £150 in recognition of this, which  Mr O accepted. I consider this a 
reasonable amount. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Vauxhall Finance Plc T/A: G.M.A.C to:
-take the car back at no cost to Mr O;
-cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owing by Mr O, and 
remove any adverse information  from his credit  file;
-refund  the deposit he paid (£4,000) plus simple  interest at 8% a year from when it 
was paid until when  its refunded; and
-pay Mr O £150  compensation in recognition  of the distress  and inconvenience 
caused. 
Vauxhall Finance  Plc T/A: G.M.A.C must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Mr O accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest* on the £150 compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at 8% a year simple.
*If Vauxhall Finance Plc T/A: G.M.A.C considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr O a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7682961