K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mrs F says The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) (at the time Mint) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs F applied for her credit card through the post, and RBS has provided a copy of her 
application form. I can see that the PPI is presented as optional, and has been  selected 
with a tick. Mrs F has also signed  the application agreeing to the information on it. So 
with this in mind,  I think RBS made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it 
was so long ago.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs F got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs F and her representatives have said - including what 
theyve said about  Mrs F being  entitled  to generous sick pay from her employer. But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of and for longer than Mrs F wouldve received full pay for. And 
Mrs F took out the policy knowing what she had in place. So this point doesnt change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN76770982The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs F any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7677098