K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms J complain  that Allianz  Insurance Plc hasnt yet completed the repairs to their 
property following a subsidence claim.  They are also unhappy  that its no longer offering 
them home insurance.
background
Mr and Ms J made a subsidence claim on their home insurance policy  in 2004. They have 
already had complaints about  the claim considered by this service  in 2011 and 2017. A few 
months ago, we also considered a complaint about the premiums they had paid since the 
start of the policy.
In 2011, another ombudsman at this service issued a final decision.  She directed Allianz to 
appoint an independent engineer to determine what work was needed at Mr and Ms Js 
home. Both parties were to be bound  by the engineers  findings.  The engineer was to 
recommend three contractors for the work,  and Allianz was to choose one.
In 2017, the same ombudsman considered a further complaint about how the claim had 
progressed since her final decision in 2011.  The ombudsman concluded there had been 
delays caused  by both parties, and she addressed concerns raised by Mr and Ms J in 
relation to the repairs and costs. In her final decision, the ombudsman  made  several 
directions about  how the claim,  repairs, and policy cover should move  forward.
A week after Mr and Ms J had accepted the 2017 final decision, the independent  engineer 
that was appointed after the 2011 final decision,  told Allianz he was no longer willing to be 
involved in the claim.  Allianz asked us how it should move forward given the ombudsmans  
previous directions required the involvement of an independent engineer.  Allianz also 
confirmed it had now appointed a loss adjuster  to handle the administrative duties 
associated with the claim, as per the ombudsmans latest final decision.
In the meantime, Mr and Ms J wrote  to us about  a letter they had received from the loss 
adjuster. The loss adjusters letter explained  that it needed to assess the damage to 
determine whether  there was a valid claim. Mr and Ms J were unhappy about this.
Following a discussion with Allianz,  one of our investigators wrote  to Mr and Ms J to explain 
the independent engineer had withdrawn his services. We explained the recently appointed 
loss adjuster could  also fulfil the duties of the independent engineer;  or Allianz could identify 
three more  independent  engineers, and Mr and Ms J could  choose  one from that list. We 
asked Mr and Ms J to confirm their preference. Shortly afterwards, in August 2017, Allianz 
told us they had received a letter from Ms J which explained they were  unable to reply  yet, 
due to Mr Js ill health.
We next heard from Mr and Ms J in July 2018. They explained the repairs to their home still 
hadnt been completed, and they were unhappy  they had been  paying policy  premiums  over 
the last 14 years without  Allianz reinstating the property. They were also unhappy with how 
their premiums had increased during that period. In January 2019, they also told us Allianz  
were no longer offering them cover, which contradicted the last final decision.
Ref: DRN72509032The issues  being  considered under this case are the claims progression since the last final 
decision in 2017  and Allianzs  withdrawal  of cover. A separate  case  was set up to consider 
the premiums paid since the policy  started,  and another ombudsman has already issued a 
final decision  on that matter. Therefore, I wont be commenting  on the arguments made 
about the premiums.  Ill simply  focus on the claim and the issue  of ongoing cover.
Since May 2019,  correspondence has been exchanged between  our investigator who 
considered this case and the parties involved.
Allianz has made the following  points and/or taken the following actions:
-Allianz attempted to contact Mr and Ms J after the ombudsmans  last final decision to 
discuss the next steps, but at that time it wasnt convenient for Mr and Ms J. So, no 
further action  was taken. Allianz  accepted that it should have followed up with them 
and maintained contact.
-Allianz wrote to Mr and Ms J again in February 2019. Allianz explained it needed to 
appoint another  independent engineer to draw up an up-to-date schedule  of works. 
About a month  later, Allianz sent them another letter to explain it hadnt received a 
response from them. It said its loss adjuster would  now contact them to assist with 
the claim.
-In February 2019, Allianz also clarified  its position about providing Mr and Ms J with 
ongoing home insurance cover. Allianz explained that, although  in the previous  final 
decision the ombudsman had directed it to maintain cover  for Mr and Ms J, it had 
since withdrawn from the personal  home insurance market. Allianz  said it was 
therefore unable  to provide new quotations  or continue cover for its existing  
customers beyond renewal dates.  
-In July 2019, Allianz sent a further  letter to Mr and Ms J. It explained although  it was 
exiting the personal home insurance market,  it had become a minority  shareholder  in 
Liverpool Victoria General Insurance Group (LV). Allianz explained LV was prepared 
to offer Mr and Ms J home insurance. However, because LV doesnt provide cover  
on a direct basis, Mr and Ms J would need to contact a broker  with an LV agency 
agreement to initiate  the process.
-Allianz later provided Mr and Ms J with a list of brokers and it asked them to select a 
few. It said LVs products  dont normally accept properties with a subsidence  history,  
but LV will work with a broker behind the scenes to arrange a policy.  Allianz noted 
that it couldnt guarantee the brokers will want to be involved, hence why it asked 
Mr and Ms J to select a few. LV will contact  the selected brokers  and if one is 
prepared to help,  Mr and Ms J can contact that broker,  or it can contact them.
-Mr and Ms J will need  to select the broker so they can receive the sales  process 
required by the regulator; and through that process they will be informed of the 
products features,  benefits and exclusions;  and they can make their informed 
decision. The broker also needs to make sure they have up-to-date  details for 
Mr and Ms J and their property.
Ref: DRN72509033-Allianz has provided assurances  that the LV policy would, as far as possible, match 
the terms of Mr and Ms Js Allianz policy. LV will also match  the premium at point  of 
lapse with Allianz, with an allowance for inflation on top. Allianz noted LVs view of 
risk may change each  year,  therefore, inflation  might  not be the only factor 
influencing future rate changes. However,  LV will simply charge Mr and Ms J the 
required price via the broker each year, discounting the amount it would have 
otherwise charged for the subsidence history risk.
-Allianz has offered  to appoint a loss assessor  to handle the claim on Mr and Ms Js 
behalf and cover  the costs. Allianz  explained to Mr and Ms J that a loss assessor 
would act in Mr and Ms Js best interests  and liaise with the other appointed third 
parties to oversee  the repairs. Allianz has also since clarified  Mr and Ms J could 
choose their own loss assessor, providing  the loss assessor  is regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Allianz  also gave Mr and Ms J the name of three 
companies at their request, for them to choose  from.
-Due to the distress and inconvenience Allianz has caused  by its handling of matters  
since the last ombudsmans final decision, it offered Mr and Ms J £1,500 
compensation. 
-In May 2020, Allianz asked the previous independent engineer if he was prepared  to 
oversee the project.  However, he declined citing a breakdown in his relationship with 
Mr and Ms J. He didnt consider it would be possible for him to manage the repairs. 
However, he said he would answer questions from the new independent  engineer, 
providing Allianz paid for his time. Allianz  agreed, subject to prior approval.
-Allianz has now provided Mr and Ms J with a dedicated claim handler, so they have a 
single point of contact at Allianz moving forward. It also advised our investigator  that 
two senior colleagues  would oversee the claim to settlement.
-In July 2020, the claim handler wrote to Mr and Ms J to explain he had requested  the 
independent engineers technical  papers, and he was aiming to put together a team 
of subsidence  and building experts to work with Mr and Ms J to agree a strategy for 
the repair. He noted the repair scheme previously agreed  with the independent 
engineer would likely need revisiting.
-The claim handler also asked  Mr and Ms J if they could hold a socially distanced 
meeting so he could  introduce the team, inspect the property, and agree an action 
plan  or if they preferred  not to meet due to current Coronavirus restrictions, if his 
team could inspect  the property. In response, Mr and Ms J explained Mr J was in 
lockdown due to his ill health, and they currently had other difficult circumstances. 
They asked to delay  the site meeting and said they would make contact once the 
meeting could be accommodated.
Mr and Ms J have  made the following points:
-They have been caused extreme distress due to them being back to where  they 
started in 2004, and they raised  concerns Allianz  had disregarded the previous 
ombudsmans final decisions.
Ref: DRN72509034-In 2018, Allianz  gave  three weeks notice of its withdrawal  of cover,  and its decision 
contradicts the previous final decisions issued by our ombudsman. They highlighted 
their property  is no longer insured. They said they had been in touch with a broker,  
but they were  told no insurer  will offer them  cover  due to the subsidence  claim.  
-If Allianz cant insure the property, it should make alternative arrangements  and pass  
all the relevant information to a broker or insurer. They dont believe that its their 
responsibility to provide  information, and they dont know what  disclosures  they 
would need to make. However, they confirmed that they would assist with the 
completion of forms if required.
-Following the first final decision in 2011,  the independent engineer was appointed by 
Allianz to complete  a schedule of repairs; arrange for three contractors to tender for 
the works; and oversee the project  to completion. Mr and Ms J believe the engineer 
had been allowed  to walk away  from the job without any warning, when his repair 
schedule had been agreed. They asked if he had breached  his contract and they 
questioned why Allianz hadnt  acted so he undertook his responsibilities. They  
thought Allianz  should have been aware  in 2014 that he was withdrawing his 
services, and it should have arranged a handover with a replacement.
-They highlighted that the party wall agreements are yet to be arranged. In 2017,  the 
ombudsman clarified that it was Allianzs responsibility to provide the independent 
engineer with loss adjusting  support, to complete  administrative  tasks  such as 
arranging the party wall agreements.
-The lack of progress  since  2004 has allowed their home to become squalid. They 
said measures hadnt been taken to prevent  damage  becoming  worse, and they 
thought they should be compensated for the propertys loss of value. 
-Temporary arrangements havent  been  provided so they can use their kitchen area 
after it was dismantled; and their contents  havent been moved into storage to 
prevent them from perishing.
-They set out the impact  of the last 16 years, and their difficult  personal circumstances 
in respect of their health. They emphasised they hadnt heard from the independent 
engineer since  2014, and no progress  had been made since.  They said their time,  
expense, emotional distress and suffering hadnt  been  addressed  by our previous 
final decisions and Allianzs further £1,500 offer isnt enough. They said £16,000 
should be awarded given theres  been 16 years  of delay.
-In respect of a loss assessor, whilst they have been provided with the names of three 
companies, they require Allianz  to contact them first and to brief them  with the history  
and circumstances  of the claim. Mr and Ms J said they will only make contact once 
the loss assessors  have  confirmed  they have  the engineering capability; Allianz has 
provided a named  person for each company; they are fully briefed; and they have 
provided written confirmation they have the capacity to see the job through.  They  
also asked our investigator several  questions about  the loss assessors role and 
sought assurances the previous  independent engineer would be available for 
questions.
Ref: DRN72509035-They highlighted that following the last final decision, the new loss adjuster wrongly 
told them  their claim  needed to be assessed  for validity. About six weeks later,  the 
loss adjuster turned up at their property without any notice, no business  card,  and 
appeared unclear on what his company was expecting him to do.
-They requested  details of the loss adjusters role and responsibilities;  and for a list of 
planned activities so they could understand the duration the claim would take. They  
said Allianz needed to brief the loss adjuster with the details of the agreements 
previously reached  in respect of the repairs and the party  wall agreements.
Our investigator has set out the following:
-In the ombudsmans last final decision,  she set out what Allianz needed  to do next in 
respect of the repairs. That decision was accepted by Mr and Ms J, so it became 
legally binding. However, our investigator  didnt think Allianz had been given an 
opportunity to implement the ombudsmans directions.
-He said it was unfortunate the independent  engineer had withdrawn his services,  but 
he didnt consider Allianz to be responsible for that. He said the engineer was acting 
independently of Allianz, not as its agent. He thought Allianzs responsibility was 
limited to appointing a replacement independent  engineer, so the ombudsmans  
directions could be implemented.
-He noted that this service wrote to Mr and Ms J soon after the independent engineer 
withdrew his services, and we suggested  Allianz select  three  alternative  independent  
engineers for Mr and Ms J to choose  from. However, Mr and Ms J then requested  
Allianz to put the claim on hold due to Mr Js ill-health. Although  our investigator 
acknowledged Allianz ought  to have maintained contact with Mr and Ms J, he 
highlighted they were unresponsive when Allianz  did attempt contact between 
January and March  2019. He also noted Allianz  had offered  to pay for a loss 
assessor to independently represent Mr and Ms J. Overall,  our investigator 
concluded Allianz had shown a willingness to implement the ombudsmans  
directions. He said there  was little that Allianz could do until a replacement  
independent engineer  has been appointed.
-He clarified that Allianzs offer to pay for a loss assessor to represent Mr and Ms J, 
was in addition  to appointing a replacement independent engineer to oversee the 
repairs and a loss adjuster  to provide the administrative support.  
-He agreed with Mr and Ms J that Allianz  should provide them and the loss assessor  
with copies of the relevant documents, including a summary  of the work undertaken 
so far, once a loss assessor has been  appointed.
-He concluded  that Allianzs  proposal for arranging alternative  cover via LV would 
ensure future cover and meet the intentions  of the ombudsmans direction.
Ref: DRN72509036-In respect of compensation, our investigator clarified that he was unable  to consider 
anything that had happened  before the ombudsmans last final decision.  He said he 
was only considering events afterwards. He acknowledged Allianz could have  done  
more to maintain  contact  after Mr and Ms J put the claim on hold,  but in view of the 
claim being placed on hold, and the lack of response in early-2019, Allianz wasnt 
responsible for all the delays. He noted a loss adjuster had been appointed as per 
the ombudsmans direction,  but he thought it was evident  the loss adjuster hadnt 
been briefed enough  given the letter it sent to Mr and Ms J about determining the 
cause of damage, which  he accepted  would have caused them to worry. He also 
noted Allianz didnt work with Mr and Ms J to ensure they maintained their home 
insurance cover when it withdrew from the market  and he acknowledged the 
distress and inconvenience this situation had caused them. Taking all these 
circumstances into consideration, he thought £1,500 compensation was fair.
Because Mr and Ms J disagreed with our investigators conclusions,  the complaint  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Ms J have  raised multiple  points and questions throughout their submissions to us. 
However, its not our role to answer every question or to comment on every  point made.  Its 
for me to determine the crux of a complaint and to address the issues I consider relevant to 
its outcome. I have carefully  considered  Mr and Ms Js submissions, and where  I havent  
directly commented on their points or questions, this isnt intended as a discourtesy; but 
rather, this reflects  the informal nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it.
Also, Im only considering whats happened  since our March  2017 final decision.  I wont be 
considering, or awarding compensation for, anything that happened  before then. This is 
because I cant revisit  events or periods  that have already been the subject of a final 
decision.
I will set out my findings on the events I am considering, under the following headings: the 
independent engineer and the claims next steps;  loss assessor;  ongoing cover; other 
issues; and compensation.
the independent engineer and the claims next steps
In the 2017 final decision, the ombudsman clearly  outlined how the claim should  proceed 
and the responsibilities  of both parties. Her final decision was accepted by Mr and Ms J, 
which means it became  legally binding. Therefore, in terms of the claims next steps, her 
directions in that final decision still stand.
 
Its unfortunate that the independent engineer has declined  to oversee the repairs.  However, 
Allianz is willing to appoint a replacement. Mr and Ms J need to engage with Allianz about 
this. Allianz first gave  them the option  of appointing  a replacement  engineer  in June 2017; 
and it also wrote to them  about this in February  2019.
Ref: DRN72509037Im not persuaded Allianz is responsible  for the decision of the independent engineer  to step 
away, or that it can reasonably do anything more. Based on the engineers comments  to our 
service and the previous final decision, his relationship with Mr and Ms J had broken down. 
Importantly, Allianz has offered to find a replacement. Its also offered to cover the previous 
engineers fees,  subject  to prior approval, should the new engineer need to consult with him. 
Im satisfied thats a reasonable solution. However, to be clear, the decision about whether 
consultation is needed will rest with the new independent engineer,  not Mr and Ms J. As a 
reminder, Mr and Ms J agreed  both they and Allianz  would be bound by an independent 
engineers decisions, when accepting  the first final decision.  
Allianz has confirmed  that the replacement independent engineer  will be jointly  selected by 
both parties. Mr and Ms J will be given the opportunity  to choose from a list provided  by 
Allianz; or if Mr and Ms J do appoint a loss assessor, the loss assessor  may be able to 
recommend one. 
Once Mr and Ms J can give Allianz access to the site, the claim  can be taken forward again 
and as per the previous final decisions. Although  the new independent engineer  will have 
access to the previous  engineers papers and can consult if necessary, its likely a new 
repair scheme will need to be designed based on the current condition of the site and 
property. I appreciate Mr and Ms J will be unhappy about going back  a step, however, 
revisiting the repair scheme  is in their interests.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Allianz has endeavoured  to comply with the 
previous final decisions.  However,  if Mr and Ms J dont consider Allianz is complying, they 
can seek legal advice  about enforcing  the decisions through  the courts. Whilst this service  
would try to assist if there was uncertainty following a final decision, unlike the courts, we 
dont have enforcement powers.
loss assessor
Allianz has offered  to pay for a loss assessor to professionally represent Mr and Ms J, i.e. 
someone who is experienced  with this type of claim and will act in their interests. 
Mr and Ms J have  outlined their expectations  in terms of how a loss assessor  is appointed,  
and with regards  to their capability and capacity.  However, in my view, I cant  reasonably 
decide that Allianz is responsible for sourcing a loss assessor that meets  Mr and Ms Js 
requirements.
Loss assessor fees arent covered  by Mr and Ms Js policy. As such, Allianzs offer to pay for 
one is very fair, in my view. Its up to Mr and Ms J whether they accept the offer. But if they 
do, its for them to contact  their potential loss assessors themselves in first instance, so they 
can obtain the reassurances they desire  and make  an informed choice. I cant  fairly  decide 
Allianz has to do all the legwork,  or that its responsible for Mr and Ms Js chosen 
representative.
Allianz has confirmed  that once a loss assessor has been chosen, it will provide them with 
an overview of the claim history and the technical  details from the previous independent 
engineers files. Im satisfied the approach suggested is reasonable.
Ref: DRN72509038ongoing cover
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) has published guidance on the continuation  of 
cover after a subsidence claim. In summary, an insurer should usually continue to offer 
cover. This is partly because, a policyholder with subsidence history will find it difficult 
obtaining cover  elsewhere,  or prohibitively expensive, due to the perceived risk. 
The previous  final decision made  a direction as per the ABIs guidance. However, Allianz  
has withdrawn from the domestic home insurance market, so it says it can no longer offer 
domestic policies. As explained above, I cant enforce  the ombudsmans  previous final 
decision. However, I can consider what steps Allianz  took to help Mr and Ms J find 
alternative cover, and whether the solution now proposed is fair and reasonable.
Im persuaded that an LV policy covering the same events as the Allianz policy,  for the same  
price (with an allowance for inflation), is a fair and reasonable solution. Importantly, there will 
be no additional amount applied to the LV premium due to the subsidence history, that 
wouldnt have also been applied to the Allianz policy had it renewed.  Im satisfied that 
Allianzs proposal is in keeping  with the principles  behind the ABI guidance.
Allianz has offered  to contact brokers on Mr and Ms Js behalf, once they have selected a 
few, to get the process started. But inevitably,  Mr and Ms J will need to be involved in the 
process once a broker has agreed to assist. At this stage, Im not persuaded Allianz can 
reasonably be directed  to do something  more.  Unfortunately, the broker  that arranged  
Mr and Ms Js Allianz policy didnt want to be involved despite having an LV agency.  
Therefore, the onus  is now on Mr and Ms J to provide  Allianz with a few selected  
alternatives, from the list of brokers provided.  
However, Im not persuaded that Allianz  did enough to support Mr and Ms J when it first told 
them about  its withdrawal  from the market. In February 2019, in response  to their complaint, 
Allianz simply said it was unable to help.  In my view, given the ABI guidance and the likely 
difficulties Mr and Ms J would face trying  to find alternative cover, Allianz ought to have 
offered more support. It wasnt until five months  later that it came forward  with the LV 
solution.
On the other hand, Mr and Ms J have shown a reluctance to undertake any of the legwork 
themselves since Allianz first proposed LV as a solution in July 2019; and they havent yet 
provided Allianz with their chosen brokers from the list it gave them three  months ago. As 
such, Im not persuaded Allianz is responsible for all the delays in obtaining alternative 
cover.
other issues
Allianz tried to move the claim forward after the last final decision, but Mr and Ms J asked to 
put the claim on hold due to their personal  circumstances. Nonetheless,  Allianz accepts it 
ought to have followed up and maintained contact. Given the history of this claim, I agree 
Allianz should have been more proactive here.  
I also accept the loss adjusters letter about  determining if there was a valid claim, would 
have been distressing for Mr and Ms J.
Ref: DRN72509039In terms of the deterioration of the property,  the damage will be put right through the repairs. 
If the property is considered to have lost market  value after the repairs are successfully 
completed, such losses are specifically  excluded by the policy.  
In terms of the kitchen,  I understand  from the last final decision that Mr and Ms J are living 
elsewhere; and we havent been told anything that leads  me to believe they have been 
impacted by the kitchen being  out of use. 
If Mr and Ms Js contents have been  damaged  as a result of not being  moved  into storage, 
this loss needs to be presented to Allianz  so it can be considered as part of the claim. Ive 
not seen that they have previously presented this loss.
compensation
Allianz has offered  Mr and Ms J £1,500 compensation for all the issues since  our last final 
decision in March 2017. I acknowledge the claim hasnt  progressed since then,  and they 
have been left without cover. However,  taking into consideration everything I have said 
above, Im satisfied that Allianzs offer fairly acknowledges the delays, distress, and 
inconvenience it can reasonably be held responsible for.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  
My final decision is Allianz  Insurance Plc should:
-once Mr and Ms J has given access to the site again  appoint  a replacement 
independent engineer  and progress the claim as per the 2011 and 2017  final 
decisions;
-cover  the cost of the previous independent  engineers fees, if the new independent 
engineer considers consultation necessary;
-on receipt of Mr and Ms Js selected brokers  work with a broker  to incept an LV 
policy that covers the same standard insured events as Mr and Ms Js previous 
Allianz policy, for the same price of the Allianz  policy had it renewed (subject to 
inflation); and without  the propertys subsidence  history impacting the LV policy 
beyond the impact the history would have had on the Allianz policy; and
-compensate Mr and Ms J £1,500
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 November  2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7250903