K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about advice they received from an appointed representative 
(Business A) of St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc (SJP) to surrender existing 
investments they held and to transfer  their value to SJPs own products.
Specifically, they say that:
they didnt  realise  at the time that they were transferring the value of two investment 
bonds and two ISAs from their existing product provider to SJP products. They  
thought they were  being advised to change investment funds, not providers;
their two investment  bonds were held in trust absolutely for the benefit of their son 
and the adviser  assured them that nothing would change.  As it was, they arent  
sure whether the SJP bonds are written in trust at all and their son wasnt  included as 
a life assured,  as they requested;
they were too old to transfer the value of their ISAs to another  provider as they may 
not have time to overcome the initial charges because ISAs werent transferrable to 
children on death at the time. They were satisfied  with their existing investments and 
saw no reason to discontinue them;
in surrendering their existing investment  bonds,  they suffered a tax liability;
a suitability letter held on SJPs file was different to the one they were provided  and 
didnt reflect the nature  of their discussions;
the adviser recorded in his suitability letter as Mr and Mrs P saying that their adviser  
had retired and could  no longer manage their investments.  But they were satisfied to 
continue being  advised by their previous advisers firm (Business B) which was still 
receiving renewal  commission  to manage their existing investments.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2019 in which I agreed with both SJP and the 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld. 
But I disagreed  with the basis of redress they proposed for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, to which I invited both SJP and Mr and Mrs P to respond.  A copy  of this 
decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
 
developments
Mr and Mrs P replied  to confirm that they agreed  with my provisional decision in principle. 
But they did comment that:
they have  still not received a copy of the final suitability letters.  They feel the adviser 
never explained how he was proposing to change  their existing investments, apart  
from asserting that nothing would change. If they didnt sign suitability  letters,  SJP 
should not have accepted the business  its appointed representative  was submitting;
one of the (unsigned) suitability letters dated January 2015 confirmed that a letter 
had been sent to their son explaining the reasons  for the advice, which  he never  
received. This caused them unnecessary time and trouble explaining the advice to 
their son when it was apparent to them that he hadnt received any such  letter;
our service should refer the outcome of this complaint to Financial Conduct Authority;
as it affects the basis of redress I proposed,  they wish to point out that Mr P 
surrendered his ISA on 5 March 2018 but that Mrs Ps ISA is still in force;
Ref: DRN70576662with regard to the award for trouble and upset, they feel that compensation should 
be at least £1,000 given they made  numerous  requests to SJP for a copy of the final 
version of the suitability  letter.
SJP responded  to say that it agreed with the decision and explained the process  of 
producing a suitability letter:
its usual procedure is for the adviser to prepare  a draft suitability letter when advising 
a client and to submit it internally for compliance.  Whether  or not amendments  to the 
letter are required, a second version  is produced which should then be presented to 
the client. It seems Mr and Mrs P received the original  letter  by mistake;
it should be stressed that amendments to the original  suitability  letter were made 
when the advice was given;
with regard to the calculation  of redress, the previous  bond  provider may not be 
prepared to calculate notional values again  or it could take some  time it to do so. For 
simplicity and speed,  it suggests  that its original offer from December 2018  is 
updated by adding further interest to-date;
the SJP bonds  were  written in trust for the benefit of Mr and Mrs Ps son absolutely;
Mr and Mrs Ps son cant  now be added to the Trustee Bonds as a life assured.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  our service doesnt  refer details of an individual 
complaint, or the outcome of that complaint, to the Financial Conduct Authority. If, in 
resolving a number  of disputes against the same  financial business, we identify systemic 
failings on the part of that business, we may notify  the regulator of any recurring issues.
I acknowledge that only Mr P surrendered his ISA on 5 March  2018 and that Mrs Ps ISA 
remains in force and amended the basis of redress accordingly. I have also set out the basis 
of redress I require SJP to pay to Mr and Mrs P separately.
Even though  Mr and Mrs P requested the adviser  to include their son as a life assured under 
the Trustee Bond in 2014, this wasnt arranged and he cant be added retrospectively.  So, 
Mr and Mrs P will have to consider whether they wish to move the funds to another  
investment so he can be included as a life assured. 
However, I note that Mr and Mrs P wanted their son to inherit the Trustee  Bond, and not the 
Bonds proceeds, if they died within the first five years. But its worth pointing out to 
Mr and Mrs P that Bond providers dont usually apply early exist penalties  in the first five 
years if surrender is due to the death  of the Bond  holder. Also,  it may be worth Mr and Mrs P 
noting that the Trustee Bonds have now been in force for almost  five years anyway.
With regard to my award for the trouble  and upset Mr and Mrs P have suffered in this 
matter, Im inclined to leave this at £750.
  
Although Mr and Mrs P received the initial  draft of the January 2015 suitability letter, and not 
the final version, this letter  largely  concerned the advice to switch  the value of their ISAs. 
The advice they received  to move the value of the previous investment bonds they held was 
covered by the suitability letter dated November 2014 with which they dont seem to have an 
issue. 
Ref: DRN70576663In any event, the suitability letters Mr and Mrs P did receive,  even though they were not the 
final version, did confirm  that they were being advised to move their existing funds to the 
products of another provider (SJP), and not that they were being recommended just to 
switch funds within their existing investments. So, the issue  that causes  them concern is that 
their son doesnt seem  to have been notified of this advice and the time taken for SJP to 
address their complaint. I think £750  is sufficient for the upset this may have caused  them.  
While SJP has confirmed that the Trustee Bonds are written in trust as before, Mr and Mrs P 
may need to check this point if they take fresh advice over the future  of their investment 
funds.        
decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should increase the offer of redress it made to 
Mr and Mrs P in its final response letter dated 13 December  2018, as follows.
Redress payable  to Mr P.
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should pay redress  to Mr P of F, where:
A = the financial loss Mr P has made on his SJP Trustee Bond at the date of this 
decision, when  compared with the current value of his previous investment bond had 
it not been surrendered in 2014, plus interest  on this loss at the rate of eight per cent 
per annum from the date of this decision  to the date of settlement;
B = the financial loss Mr P made on his SJP ISA at 5 March 2018, when he 
surrendered it, compared to the notional value of his previous ISA at that date based  
on the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income  Total Return Index,  plus interest on that 
loss at the rate of eight  per cent per annum  from 5 March 2018  to the date of 
settlement;
C = the estimated loss of age allowance  of £132 he may have  suffered  when  he 
surrendered his previous investment bonds  and, if this estimate  of the tax liability is 
understated, reimburse any additional liability subject to satisfactory  evidence  being 
provided;
D = any reasonable  adviser fee Mr P incurs if he decides to take further advice as to 
the future of the investments he was recommended;
E = any tax liability he may suffer and early exit charge if, following advice he 
receives, he decides to surrender the Trustee  Bond to reinvest the proceeds  
elsewhere;
F = A + B + C + D + E.
Redress payable  to Mrs P.
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should pay redress  to Mrs P of F, where:
Ref: DRN70576664A = the financial loss Mrs P has made on her SJP Trustee Bond at the date of this 
decision, when  compared with the current value of her previous investment bond had 
it not been surrendered in 2014, plus interest  on this loss at the rate of eight per cent 
per annum from the date of this decision  to the date of settlement;
B = the financial loss Mrs P made on her SJP ISA, when compared to the current  
value of her previous  ISA based  on the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  
Return Index, plus interest on that loss at the rate of eight per cent per annum from 
the date of this decision  to the date of settlement;
C = the estimated loss of age allowance  of £132 she may have  suffered  when  she 
surrendered her previous investment bonds  and, if this estimate  of the tax liability is 
understated, reimburse any additional liability subject to satisfactory  evidence  being 
provided;
D = any reasonable  adviser fee Mrs P incurs if she decides to take further advice as 
to the future of the investments she was recommended;
E = any tax liability she may suffer and early exit charge if, following advice she 
receives, she decides to surrender the Trustee  Bond and reinvest the proceeds 
elsewhere;
F = A + B + C + D + E.
In addition, St. Jamess  Place Wealth Management  Plc should  pay £750  jointly to 
Mr and Mrs P for the trouble and upset they have  suffered in this matter.
If St. Jamess Place Wealth  Management  Plc considers its legally obliged to deduct  income  
tax from the interest  calculated in A and B for Mr and Mrs P respectively, it must  send  a 
tax deduction  certificate  with each payment. Mr and Mrs P may reclaim any tax overpaid 
from HM Revenue  and Customs, if their respective tax status allows them  to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70576665COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about advice  they received from an appointed representative  
(Business A) of St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc (SJP) to surrender existing investments 
they held and to transfer their value  to SJPs own products.
Specifically, they say that:
they didnt realise at the time that they were transferring the value of two investment bonds 
and two ISAs from their existing product provider  to SJP products. They  thought they were 
being advised to change investment funds, not providers;
their two investment bonds were  held in trust absolutely for the benefit  of their son and the 
adviser assured them that nothing  would  change. As it was, they arent  sure whether  the 
SJP bonds are written  in trust at all and their son wasnt included  as a life assured, as they 
requested;
they were too old to transfer the value  of their ISAs  to another provider as they may not have 
time to overcome the initial charges  because ISAs werent transferrable to children on death  
at the time.  They were satisfied with their existing  investments and saw no reason to 
discontinue them;
in surrendering their existing  investment bonds,  they suffered a tax liability;
a suitability letter  held on SJPs file was different to the one they were provided  and didnt 
reflect the nature  of their discussions.  For example, the adviser assured  them  that their son 
would receive a copy of the recommendations and he didnt do so;
the adviser recorded  in his suitability letter as Mr and Mrs P saying that their adviser had 
retired and could no longer manage  their investments.  But they were satisfied to continue 
being advised by their previous  advisers  firm (Business B) which was still receiving renewal 
commission to manage their existing investments.
background
In June 2014,  while an appointed representative  of SJP, Business A bought a separate  business 
(Business B) when the principal of Business B, who had acted as Mr and Mrs Ps adviser, retired.
But Business A gave  Mr and Mrs P advice as an appointed  representative of SJP even though 
Business B it now owned  still employed  financial advisers  who were authorised  to provide  Mr and Mrs 
P advice on their existing investments.
In November 2014, Mr and Mrs P each held an investment  bond, as single life assured, worth around 
£73,000, which invested  in a range  of medium  risk-rated funds  and was written under a Lifetime Nil 
Rate Bond  trust for the absolute benefit of their son. Mr and Mrs P were the trustees.
Mr P also held an Investment ISA since 1996, which invested in Cash,  Property and High Income 
funds, and was worth around £33,000 in January 2015. Mrs P had taken out an Investment  ISA in 
1999, which invested in a Fixed Interest  Monthly  Income fund and was worth approximately  £13,000.
Mr and Mrs P were advised  to surrender  their respective investment bonds and to reinvest  the 
proceeds in Managed Funds of SJP investment bonds for capital growth  over the medium  term 
because the adviser said he could provide ongoing monitoring of these investments. Mr and Mrs P 
asked for their son to be included  as a life assured so he could continue the bonds on their death,  
rather than to receive their surrender value.  They  also wanted to save  tax efficiently.
The adviser  explained the respective charges under the investment bonds, considered the merits  of 
switching funds  within  their existing  bonds,  acknowledged that the new bonds needed  to remain in 
Ref: DRN70576666trust for the absolute  benefit  of their son and the taxation of the Bond proceeds whenever Mr and/or 
Mrs P died.
Initially, each SJP investment bond was set up as single life but jointly owned  by Mr and Mrs P and 
theres no evidence they were written in trust for the benefit of their son.
Two weeks later, these investments were set up as Trustee Bonds with the trust as bondholder, Mr 
and Mrs P as joint lives assured and beneficiaries  (with the proceeds  payable on second death). Their 
son wasnt included  as a life assured on either bond.
In January 2015, the adviser made a case for Mr and Mrs P transferring  the value  of their existing 
Investment ISAs to a Balanced Income Portfolio fund of SJP ISAs. In this way, their fund will be 
invested for growth over the medium term, thereby preserving the value of their capital in real terms. 
Also, they would receive ongoing reviews of these investments  that werent available to them since 
their previous adviser retired. The adviser  also recommended Mr P to redirect  to the Investment ISA 
the monthly contribution  of £225 he was paying to a Cash ISA which was giving him a poor rate of 
interest at the time.
Otherwise, Mr and Mrs P held other investments  the adviser thought wouldnt  be feasible to 
consolidate with SJP.
The suitability letter held on SJPs file dated January  2015, which  supported the advice to transfer 
their Investment ISAs,  confirmed that a copy of these recommendations would be sent to Mr and Mrs 
Ps son as his intention would be to retain the ISAs for at least five years if Mr and/or Mrs P died 
beforehand. Mr and Mrs Ps version  of the suitability  letter makes no mention  of their son being  sent a 
copy of the letter.
 
In its Final Response Letter dated  13 December 2018, SJP didnt accept that its representative had 
misled Mr and Mrs P or had provided inappropriate  advice. Mr and Mrs P had received a letter  from 
Business B in June 2014 which confirmed they could  continue to deal with their existing independent 
financial adviser over the investments they held at the time where the SJP approach was not 
appropriate.   However,  its representative  persuaded  them to switch  their investment  to SJP and 
Mr and Mrs P agreed to follow this advice.
However, given the concerns Mr and Mrs P raised, SJP considered their comparative financial 
position if they had not transferred the value  of their existing investments in 2014 and 2015. It found 
that Mr and Mrs P had made a financial loss on the investment bonds and the ISAs  to-date compared  
to the performance, based on a benchmark  rate, of the previous investments they held and made  
them an offer,  as follows:
redress of £296 for the financial loss Mr and Mrs P made on the two investment  bonds based 
on a notional  value quoted  by their previous  bond provider at 31 August  2018;
redress of £6,046  and £2,373 for financial loss they made on their respective  ISA transfers 
they surrendered  on 5 March  2018, including  interest on the loss at the rate of eight per cent 
per annum  to December 2018;
reimbursement of the estimated loss of age allowance of £132 they each suffered when they 
surrendered their existing investment bonds;
if SJPs estimate  of the tax liability they incurred is understated, it will reimburse any 
additional liability subject to satisfactory evidence being provided;
reimbursement of any reasonable adviser fees if Mr and Mrs P wish to take further  advice as 
to the future of the investments they were recommended;
£250  for the trouble  and upset this matter will have caused them.
SJP rounded up this offer to £9,250 in full and final settlement of their complaint.
In addition, if Mr and Mrs P decide to surrender the Trustee Bonds to reinvest  with another  provider, 
SJP will waive any early exit charge that would otherwise apply to the value of these  Bonds.
Ref: DRN70576667In response, Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service. While they didnt dispute the offer of 
redress for the financial  loss they suffered in transferring their investments, they were equally 
concerned at being led to believe their investments hadnt been fundamentally changed  except for the 
investment funds. Business  A had promised not to pass on details of Business  Bs clients to SJP and 
it did so. They remain concerned that documentation they received at the point of sale had since been  
amended.
Also, as SJP took around  nine months to respond to their complaint, and Mr and Mrs P still havent 
received a copy of the suitability letters they requested,  they felt £250 for their upset  and 
inconvenience was insufficient.
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  was considered by one of our investigators, who thought  St James Place  
had made  a fair and reasonable offer to resolve  their complaint. Briefly, she said that:
Mr and Mrs P say they were satisfied with their previous adviser and had been led to believe 
by Business B that nothing would  change. They were elderly and had little investment 
experience. So they relied on their previous  adviser and had no reason to change  the 
investments they already  held;
but they acted on the advice they were  given, which  she didnt think  was in their best 
interests;
SJP has provided  unsigned copies of suitability  letters which are different  to the ones 
submitted by Mr and Mrs P and she appreciated why this would  have caused them  some 
concern. Also, they deny a copy of a suitability  letter was ever sent to their son;
it was somewhat surprising that SJP hasnt retained documentation signed by Mr and Mrs P 
from four years ago. 
although the offer made by SJP does work  to put Mr and Mrs P back in the position they 
would have  been  in financially, had they not transferred their investments, she didnt think the 
award for the trouble  and upset  Mr and Mrs P have  been caused is adequate  - they are 
elderly, have  suffered ill-health and their complaint wasnt resolved for nine months.  She felt 
an award of £400  was more appropriate in the circumstances. 
SJP replied to say that it agreed with the investigators recommendation to increase the award for 
trouble and upset to £400.
While Mr and Mrs P havent  disputed  the offer made by SJP to reimburse their financial losses, they 
remained dissatisfied that documentation they received  at the point of sale had been subsequently 
amended without receiving  a copy of final version.
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling about documentation held on SJPs  file, such as the 
January 2015 suitability letter (which I believe  theyve since received)  differing  from the version they 
received that made  no mention of a copy of the letter  being sent to their son. And, now Ive seen both 
versions of this letter, I do share Mr and Mrs Ps concern about this matter;  not least, because  the 
version held by SJP also states that, whenever Mr or Mrs P died, their son would retain the new 
investments for at least the first five years since they were taken out. 
If those investments were  meant  to include the new ISAs, that wouldnt have  been possible  anyway, 
as ISAs would be surrendered on the death  of the ISA-holder and the proceeds paid into his or her 
estate - Mr and Mrs Ps son could  have  inherited the value of his parents ISA but not the ISA itself or 
the ISA tax-free allowance.
Ref: DRN70576668As such, its difficult to appreciate why it was worth stating that Mr and Mrs Ps son received a copy  of 
the suitability letter if, in fact, he didnt do so. 
But my role is to resolve Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  about the advice they received as far as they have 
suffered financial loss, material distress or material  inconvenience. Its not within my power to fine or 
censure Business A for alleged irregularities in its sales methods or record keeping.  That is the 
responsibility of the industry regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  to monitor.  So, if Mr and 
Mrs P remain concerned at the sales practices of Business  A, they would have to consider referring  
these matters to the FCA.       
A letter circulated  to existing clients by Business  B in June 2014 (once  it had been taken over by 
Business A, an appointed representative of SJP) confirmed that Business Bs principal was indeed  
retiring and that future reviews will initially be handled by Business A using the SJP approach to 
investment management. But the letter also confirmed that Business  A will continue  to service 
existing clients and provide  independent financial  advice  where the SJP approach  may not be 
appropriate.     
The justification given  by Business A for Mr and Mrs P transferring the value of their bonds and ISAs 
to SJP was the SJP approach to investment management. But, in my view, this generic reason  is 
outweighed by the significant  financial disadvantages  (which are set out in the suitability  letters) of 
transferring these investments for a couple in their mid-80s.  And, as far as I can see, their 
investments appeared  to have been performing perfectly satisfactorily.  
In November 2014, Mr and Mrs P were  both in their mid-80s and, when surrendering  their existing 
bonds, they suffered a tax charge. The SJP bonds applied higher annual management charges  which 
required them  to outperform the bonds they surrendered by 0.35 per cent just to cover these initial 
charges. The SJP bonds  also applied  early an exit penalty of six per cent.
Likewise, the replacement ISAs carried  higher  annual management charges  and an initial bid/offer 
spread charge of five per cent which instantly reduced the value of their investment which may never 
be recovered given Mr and Mrs Ps ages.
All things considered, I cant see how the advice can be justified financially. In other words, I dont 
think the SJP approach was appropriate in Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances. And, if it was thought  that 
they did need  to change the spread of funds under their existing investments, they could have done 
so by consulting Business B which still received  renewal commission from the providers for servicing  
these investments.
Although its recorded in the suitability letters that Mr and Mrs P were concerned  about the future  of 
their existing investments because their adviser had retired, Business A already knew that and also 
knew that Mr and Mrs P could continue to receive advice  on their existing investments from 
authorised individuals  still employed  by Business B.
More importantly, I havent  been  provided any documentation which  confirms how the SJP bonds 
were written in trust and the type of trust created. This is important for income  tax implications 
whenever the bonds  are surrendered, as tax will fall on the beneficiary  according to his tax status (if 
the trust is an absolute or bare trust) or it could fall on the trust at trust rates of 45 per cent (less 20 
per cent already charged to the fund) if the trust is a discretionary trust. Its crucial that SJP provides  
Mr and Mrs P this information or documentation which  will enable their chosen adviser to amend the 
trust arrangement, if necessary, once their complaint is resolved.
For these  reasons, I agree  with SJP that the complaint should be upheld and that Mr and Mrs P 
should receive  redress for the financial  loss the advice has caused them.
And Im satisfied that SJPs offer to Mr and Mrs P in its final response letter  dated  
13 December 2018 is appropriate, as far as it goes, other than it should  have added  interest at eight 
Ref: DRN70576669per cent per annum  simple  to their losses on the investment  bonds from 31 August 2018 to 13 
December 2018.
  
Not surprisingly, Mr and Mrs P have indicated  that they wish to engage  an adviser to re-set  their 
investments once redress has been paid. This will include  consideration  as to where the redress 
payment itself should be invested, of any tax charges they will incur if they surrender the SJP bonds 
and whether the bonds  are set up under  an appropriate trust for their objective of bequeathing  the 
nominated investments to their son.       
Otherwise, my view is that, once they became aware that the nature of the advice was not as they 
first thought, that documentation held by SJP didnt match the paperwork they received from Business  
A and that theyre now unsure  whether  the investments meet their objective, I think  this matter will 
have caused a couple  now in their late 80s a considerable degree of stress. As such, I believe SJP 
should increase its offer for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs P have  suffered in this matter to £750.
provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should increase the offer of redress it made to Mr and Mrs 
P in its final response  letter dated 13 December  2018 to G, where:
A = the financial loss Mr and Mrs P made on the two investment  bonds based on a notional 
value quoted  by their previous bond  provider  at the date of this decision, plus interest on this 
loss at the rate of eight per cent per annum  from the date of this decision to the date of 
settlement;
B = the financial loss they made on their respective ISA transfers which they surrendered on 
5 March 2018, plus interest  on the loss at the rate of eight per cent per annum from 5 March  
2018 to the date of settlement;
C = reimbursement  of the estimated  loss of age allowance  of £132 they each suffered when 
they surrendered  their existing investment bonds and, if this estimate of the tax liability  is 
understated, reimburse any additional liability subject to satisfactory  evidence being provided;
D = reimburse  any reasonable adviser fees if Mr and Mrs P decide to take further advice as to 
the future of the investments they were recommended;
E = reimburse any tax liability they suffer  and waive any early  exit charge  if, following advice 
they receive, they decide to surrender the two Trustee Bonds to reinvest  the proceeds 
elsewhere;
F = £750 for the trouble and upset this matter  will have caused them.
G = A + B + C + D + E + F.
If St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc considers its legally obliged to deduct income tax from 
the interest calculated in A and B above,  it must  send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.  
Mr and Mrs P may reclaim  any tax overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs, if their tax status  allows 
them to do so. 
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7057666