K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that One Sure Insurance Limited  unfairly cancelled  his Motor  Trade  Road 
Risks insurance policy with his insurer. 
background
Mr R took out a motor  trade road risks insurance  policy through  One Sure. Not long after the 
policy was set up Mr R contacted One Sure to add a named driver to the policy. Mr R had to 
pay an additional premium when he added the named driver. 
When the named  driver was added One Sure said he could  pay this in two instalments. In 
addition to this Mr R was also paying for his insurance monthly.  At the time of adding the 
named driver Mr R used  his friends card to make the first payment. Because of this One 
Sures system  changed the stored  card details it held which meant  his monthly  payment 
would also be taken  from his friends card. As his friend hadnt agreed to the monthly 
payments, they did a charge back to claim the money back from One Sure. 
A few months later One Sure contacted Mr R to say as there were missed  payment his 
policy would be cancelled.  To help Mr R, One Sure agreed the outstanding amount could be 
paid in two instalments. One that day and the second a month later.  One Sure agreed  to call 
Mr R a month later if they hadnt heard from him to collect payment. 
One Sure tried to contact  Mr R a month later as he hadnt paid the second instalment but 
werent able to get hold of him. As Mr R didnt respond One Sure sent a second  chaser  via 
letter and tried to call but didnt get hold of him, so left a voicemail. As One Sure didnt hear 
back they asked  the insurer  to cancel  the policy because of non-payment.  
Mr R called One Sure to say he didnt think what theyd done was correct  and complained.  
One Sure reviewed the complaint and didnt  uphold it, they said because  Mr R had done  
chargebacks on the payments made there  was money outstanding  for the policy.  And as the 
agreed payments  had been missed One Sure said theyre allowed to cancel the policy.  
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Rs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld.  She didnt 
think One Sure had done anything wrong as there were missed  payments because of the 
chargebacks. 
As Mr R disagreed the complaint  has come to me to decide. He said One Sure  had taken 
payment from the wrong card and theyd agreed to call him when  the next payment was due. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Sures terms of business say You  will be required to pay any debit balances  promptly. 
If you fail to settle a debit  balance promptly, we will use any credit/debit card details that you 
have previously authorised us to use in order to settle the balance.
Ref: DRN78425672When Mr R paid for the named driver on the policy he used his friends  card details. This 
meant Mr Rs friends card would be used  for any future payments. Because the future 
payments were charged to this card Mr Rs friend did a charge back  to reclaim the money.  
This meant Mr R hadnt paid what hed agreed  to. 
One Sure hasnt  shown me it was made  clear  to Mr R that the card details for his monthly 
payments would change at the time of paying  for the named driver.  But I can see One Sures 
contact notes show Mr R was made aware  of it a couple of months later.  At this point       
One Sure agreed a payment plan for Mr R to settle  the amount  outstanding. Mr R then used 
his girlfriends card to make the first payment and asked One Sure  to contact him in a month 
when the second payment was due, as he didnt want them  using this card for the second 
payment.  
When the second payment was due One Sure sent Mr R a text to ask him to get in contact,  
One Sure also said it called and left a voicemail  for Mr R. As One Sure  hadnt heard from   
Mr R it sent a chaser letter via recorded  delivery  a week later. The letter explained there  was 
money outstanding  and if it wasnt  paid within seven days the policy  would be cancelled. 
One Sure didnt  hear from Mr R so it cancelled his policy as there  was an amount 
outstanding. 
As Mr R hadnt paid the amount agreed,  and One Sure  had made reasonable attempts to 
contact him for payment.  Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for it to cancel his policy 
with his insurer. Im therefore  not going  to instruct  One Sure  to do any more than it already 
has. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7842567