K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the valuation  placed on a property when Mr and Mrs H bought  it with 
a mortgage provided  by National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest). They  think the valuation  
was too low, and that theyve paid too much interest  as a result.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs H when my 
decision is published.
In 2015, Mr and Mrs H decided to buy a house;  as I understand it, they were already living 
there as tenants,  but had reached agreement to buy the house for £425,000. They  applied  to 
NatWest for the mortgage, and NatWest arranged  for the property to be valued for mortgage  
purposes. 
The valuers opinion  was the property  was worth £375,000. This put Mr and Mrs Hs 
proposed mortgage  into a high loan-to-value  bracket than anticipated, which  meant they 
didnt qualify for the interest rate theyd initially been  attracted to and applied for. 
Nonetheless, they went ahead with the purchase and the mortgage  completed at a higher 
rate. 
The matter  appeared to rest there until in 2018,  Mr and Mrs H decided  to sell the house, and 
did so for substantially more than it had been valued at in 2015 for the mortgage. They 
complained to NatWest,  and the bank rejected the complaint, on the grounds that the 
valuation had been carried out by an independent  valuer, not by the bank itself.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs H have  asked 
for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
I mention the latter because  theres  been  an extensive  dialogue  between  Mr and Mrs H and 
the investigators manager about  the scope of the complaint, and our remit to consider it. 
Ref: DRN75662282Thats now resolved, and to ensure theres no further ambiguity,  my decision here deals 
solely with whether NatWest treated Mr and Mrs H fairly when it arranged the valuation for 
their mortgage in 2015
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When assessing the value of a property for mortgage purposes,  a lenders duty to a 
borrower is to appoint a suitably-qualified and competent valuer to carry out the valuation. 
Provided it does  that, and NatWest did in Mr and Mrs Hs case, the lenders entitled  to rely 
on the valuers opinion. Its not liable to the borrower if the valuers  opinion  is later revealed 
to be mistaken.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H remain  unhappy with the 2015 valuation,  but the fact remains that 
NatWest was always entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion. I have not  because  I have 
no power to do so  considered whether the valuation is accurate or not. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs H have been frustrated  in their attempts to have the valuation  
challenged. Im afraid we cant help with that; Mr and Mrs H may wish to consider obtaining 
legal advice on whether they have any recourse against the surveyor directly. To be clear, 
Im not recommending  they commit to the expense of doing that; they must  make their own 
judgement. 
All I can consider  here is whether NatWest treated Mr and Mrs H fairly when it relied on the 
valuation when deciding  which interest rate to offer them. For the reasons I have set out, I 
am satisfied  it did so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7566228