K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund disputed  transactions  made
on his current account.
background
Mr B says payments were made  from his HSBC account to two online merchants (later
referred to as Business A and Business B) without his knowledge or authority. These
transactions occurred  between  7 March 2017 and 1 July 2018.
Mr B says that he discovered  the transactions when  he received his account statements and
noticed his account balance was much lower than he expected.  Mr B went to an HSBC
branch on 4 April 2018  to report  the transactions. Mr B says he was asked to highlight the
disputed transactions  on his bank statements so that HSBC could conduct a fraud
investigation.
Mr B returned this information  to the HSBC  branch  on 5 April 2018,  having highlighted
around 70 transactions. Mr B says he was told the payments would  stop, and they issued
him with a new debit  card.  Mr B says as a precaution  he moved money  from his current
account to his savings account. And that he checked his account regularly over the next
couple of weeks  but didnt  see any more  transactions.
Mr B then received a bank statement in June 2018  and noticed  that further transactions to
the same  merchants had been made.
A call was made to HSBC  regarding Mr Bs account  in July 2018.  It was during this call it
came to light that a fraud investigation hadnt been  initiated. HSBC contacted Mr B and
requested further  information.
In summary,  Mr B explained that:
he still had possession of his card when he discovered the transactions  and 
usually kept his card in his wallet
he lives with his son and grandson
he hadnt given  the card to anyone else to use
while he held an account  with one of the online merchants, his account  didnt 
show the transactions that he had disputed
he doesnt usually  review each individual transaction on his statements and only 
discovered the transactions when he found that his account balance  was much  
lower than expected
he hadnt received  any unusual calls or emails requesting his card information
Ref: DRN75241972HSBC initially refunded Mr B pending their investigation, but later removed the funds and
told Mr B they were holding him liable because:
the transactions were spread over a prolonged period  of time and were for 
nominal amounts which wasnt typical fraudster behaviour
the transactions were conducted  over three  different  cards  and there  wasnt a 
reasonable explanation as to how his card information was compromised on all 
three cards
Mr B had an account with one of the online merchants and they felt this was 
a dispute between him and the merchant
many  of the transactions were  to an online streaming service, which is 
inconsistent from the usage theyd expect  to see from a fraudster
no further attempts  to use his card were made  after it was cancelled, 
which suggested the person using it knew it had been cancelled
Overall HSBC felt it most likely that Mr B had authorised  these transactions.
As Mr B didnt agree  with HSBCs decision, he asked us to investigate.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and upheld it. The investigator  felt that HSBC
shouldve raised  a chargeback as they were card not present transactions and Mr B had
notified HSBC  of the fraud allegation in good time. But ultimately,  they felt it was most likely
that someone known  to Mr B had used his card without his consent. They recommended
HSBC should  refund all the transactions, along  with 8% simple interest and £100
compensation.
HSBC disagreed raising a number of points,  including:
they didnt  feel raising  a chargeback  wouldve been appropriate in the 
circumstances
the transactions suggest that Mr B may have authorised a third party to use his 
card, with the third party going on to use the account to a greater extent than 
initially agreed
if Mr B gave  his grandson his card details, they would treat the transactions  as 
authorised for any transactions  made  with the card  also that would suggest    
Mr B was grossly negligent  or careless with his card
the pattern  of spending suggests that the transactions were authorised
Mr B failed  to check his statements thoroughly for over a year and, as per the 
terms and conditions  of the account,  HSBC arent liable  to refund any transactions 
that occurred  over 13 months before the dispute was raised
Mr B had agreed to recurring transactions under the terms of service with one of 
the online merchants   by allowing his card to be used once
The investigator considered HSBCs points but felt they didnt change  his opinion because
he still felt that the transactions werent  authorised by Mr B.
HSBC asked for the answer to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been
passed to me. 
As I was minded  to reach the same outcome as the investigator, but with slightly  different 
redress, I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2021 in which I said:
Ref: DRN75241973Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As part of this Im required  to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators'
rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice;  and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time. And where there  is a dispute about what
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  to have happened
in light of the available evidence.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Bs genuine  card details were used
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not,
on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So, I also need  to think about  whether
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr B consented to the transactions
being made.
Basically HSBC say theyre holding Mr B liable for one of three  reasons:
either he made the transactions and consented to the transactions by completing 
them himself, or
he consented to them by authorising someone else to complete the transactions  by 
giving them  his card details  which they also suggest constitutes gross negligence 
and carelessness  which  breaches Mr Bs account terms and conditions, or
Mr B entered his card details onto the online merchant site, and by uploading his 
card details  he entered into a recurring payment authority under the merchants 
accounts terms of service.
Ultimately all I need to decide  is whether or not I think its most likely that Mr B consented to
the transactions which I dont, and Ill explain why.
Mr B has said that he didnt carry out the transactions himself and he has been consistent  in
what hes told us and HSBC. I havent  seen anything that persuades me Mr B completed
these transactions  himself. And I agree that it seems very unlikely that a third-party  unknown
to Mr B couldve  conducted the transactions. I say this because Mr B has maintained
possession of his card throughout the period  the disputed transactions  were made, and he
says he hasnt replied  to any suspicious calls or emails requesting his card information.
Meaning there is no clear  point of compromise for his card details with an unknown  third
party.
I do, however,  think the transactions indicate that a third-party known  to Mr B conducted
them without his consent.
Firstly, the disputed transactions occur over a number of different  cards.  Its plausible  that a
third party known to Mr B (particularly  someone within  his household) couldve obtained his
card details undetected on a number of occasions. For Mr Bs card details to have been
compromised his cards would only need  to be in the possession  of a third party  for a very
short space of time in order for them to record all the information  required to conduct these
transactions - as they were completed online which didnt require the actual card in order  to
Ref: DRN75241974make them. Given that Mr B lives with his son and grandson I think this poses a very
plausible and likely point of compromise  for his card details.
And while I appreciate  HSBCs argument that these transactions  arent typical of a fraudster,
that doesnt mean that Mr B consented to the transactions.  Also,  its highly possible that
someone has used  Mr Bs card for what are considered  nominal transactions, potentially not
realising how much in total theyd  spent across all the transactions.  They mightve thought
that the transactions would go unnoticed because they are so small individually.
HSBC raised a point  around Mr B providing  his card details for a recurring  payment
authority. But Mr B has stated that he has checked his genuine account with Business A and
that he cant locate  any of the disputed transactions made to them. Further to that, Mr B has
disputed transactions  to two different merchants, so if he had given his authority for recurring
payments to be made to Business A it wouldnt explain  how Business B has obtained  his
authority for a similar  arrangement.
From what  Ive seen Im not convinced Mr B has unwittingly given his card information  over
to either  merchant in order for a recurring payment authority to be set up. Its also important
to note that HSBC  has failed  to provide evidence from either  merchant which would
corroborate this argument.
HSBC also claim  that if Mr B didnt consent  to the transactions that hes been  careless  or
grossly negligent  with his card details. But I havent seen any evidence  that suggests  this is
the case. If the fraud was conducted by someone  within Mr Bs household, its likely they
wouldve had access to his card  without the need for him to be careless or grossly
negligent. And, gross negligence is quite a high bar. HSBC havent provided any evidence
that suggests Mr B has been careless  or grossly negligent.
Taking everything into account  Im persuaded its most likely Mr B didnt authorise the
disputed transactions.  It follows  that HSBC cant hold him liable for them.
As part of my investigation  Ive reviewed Mr Bs statements and found that the payments he
has disputed total £9,296.48 as opposed to the original amount investigated by HSBC  of
£8,881.08. Im aware that HSBC feels Mr B cant claim  all the disputed  transactions,  due to
him raising  a fraud complaint more than 13 months  after the first transaction occurred. But
Im satisfied that Mr B did raise his dispute  with HSBC within 13 months  of the date the
transactions first happened. He first alerted them to the fraud  on 4 April 2018,  whereas the
first transaction being disputed is 7 March  2017.
HSBC has acknowledged  that they didnt look into Mr Bs fraud complaint when he first
raised it with them,  so I think its fair for HSBC  to also pay Mr B £100  for his trouble and
upset.
To put things right I recommended HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £9,296.48
pay simple  interest at 8% from the date of the transactions until the date of 
settlement. If HSBC deducts  tax from the interest element  of this award, it should 
provide Mr B with an appropriate tax deduction  certificate.
pay £100 compensation
Ref: DRN75241975I gave both parties an opportunity to respond. Mr B didnt respond but HSBC replied raising 
the following  points:
our reliance on point of compromise  i.e. son / grandson, isnt factual and is based  
upon an assumption. It is just as likely, if not more so, that Mr B authorised the 
transactions, or in the minimum  consented  to his son / grandson  using his card.  
the transactions took place over three  cards, and therefore  its most probably 
someone close to Mr B, and in that knowledge  surely the customer  would have 
questioned the son / grandson about  the transactions. Maybe he did but is now trying  
to protect  them. 
the fact that the transactions took place over multiple cards would imply that Mr B 
hasnt taken reasonable care of his cards, which youd reasonably  expect in the 
knowledge that his previous cards had allegedly been used without his 
consent/knowledge. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done Ive reached  the same  
answer as I set out in my provisional decision.
As part of this Im required  to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators'
rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice;  and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time. And where there  is a dispute about what
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  to have happened
in light of the available evidence.
Ive considered the points HSBC has raised, but they dont change my decision. Im still 
persuaded its more  likely than not Mr B didnt authorise the transactions.
HSBC are unhappy that Im assuming Mr Bs son or grandson mayve  used  his card and that 
there isnt evidence about a point of compromise. But as Ive already set out, where  the 
evidence in incomplete or contradictory I only need to reach  an answer based on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the circumstances. I did consider  very carefully  
whether I thought it more likely that Mr B had authorised the transactions  or that they had 
been completed without his consent. And I havent seen anything that persuades me I 
should reach a different position  on this than I did in my provisional decision.
HSBC still feel that Mr B was careless  with his card, as the transactions  happened  over 
multiple cards. I addressed this in my provisional  decision and HSBC have provided no new 
evidence or information that changes my mind  on this point. I havent seen anything that 
suggests Mr B was careless or grossly  negligent  with his card. Following the first disputed  
transactions Mr Bs card was replaced. Mr B has told us he watched his statements over 
several weeks and didnt see any further transactions. I think  its most likely that Mr B 
wouldve believed that the situation was isolated and wouldnt happen again.
Also, HSBCs point regarding whether Mr B questioned his son or grandson about the 
transactions wouldnt change the decision Ive reached.  Even  if his grandson  or son admitted 
to completing the transactions, that would still mean that Mr B hadnt authorised them  and 
HSBC cant fairly hold him liable for them.
Ref: DRN75241976Having considered everything  that HSBC has said, Im still persuaded its most likely that   
Mr B didnt consent to the disputed transactions. Therefore, HSBC should  refund Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC  UK Bank  Plc.
To put things right HSBC UK Bank  Plc should:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £9,296.48
pay simple  interest at 8% from the date of the transactions until the date of 
settlement. If HSBC deducts  tax from the interest element  of this award, it should 
provide Mr B with an appropriate tax deduction  certificate.
  pay £100 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7524197