K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mrs G says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs G and Capital One agree  that Mrs G applied for her card online. Capital One shouldve 
made Mrs G aware she had a choice  in taking out the PPI. From what I know about how 
Capital One sold PPI online, Mrs G wouldve been  given  a yes or no option. Capital One 
has given me a document showing what Mrs G selected when she applied  for her card and 
this shows she selected yes to agree  to take out the PPI.
So I think Capital One made it clear  that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this as it was so 
long ago.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. Mrs G says she had six 
months full followed  by six months half sick pay but the policy  wouldve paid out alongside 
these benefits.  It wouldve  also covered  her repayments if Mrs G lost her job. And it doesnt 
look like Mrs G had any other means  such as savings - so it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN76280372But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7628037