K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.
background
Lloyds doesnt  know exactly when the PPI was sold so they have assumed it was taken  at 
the same  time as the credit card was taken out, which was in 1988.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened, at the least, over 18 and possibly 
as much as 30 years  ago, so Im not surprised that neither  Lloyds nor Mr R has been able to 
provide any of the specific sale documents from so long ago. Where  there  isnt much 
evidence for me to consider,  I need  to make  my decision based on a balance  of probabilities 
 that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have  said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened.  
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr R aware  the PPI was 
optional or failed to secure his agreement to take it out. So, considering  how long ago the 
sale was in this case, and having  considered all the submissions I have received in this 
case, I think its more likely  that Lloyds wouldve made Mr R aware  that the PPI was optional 
and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr R was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. Mr R told us he was self employed in 1988  and 
thinks the terms would have made it hard for him to claim. From what we know  about the 
policies that were sold at this time by Lloyds,  I dont think that being self employed  would 
have made  it any harder to claim than it would have been for an employed person. So it 
doesnt seem that being self employed would have prevented Mr R from successfully 
claiming the full policy  benefit if hed needed  to.
And Mr R seems to have had a need  for the cover. I say this as he told us he did not receive 
sick pay and that he had no savings or any other  means he could  have relied on in that 
circumstance, or if he lost his job. So, as this PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mr Rs 
monthly balance  for up to 12 months,  I think he couldve found  this cover useful.
Ref: DRN76772932As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr R, Lloyds  also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Lloyds  gave him was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable,  Im not persuaded better information would have 
made a difference to his decision  to take out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. And I make no award  
against Lloyds  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7677293