K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
I understand Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage  with the Halifax in 1997  and bought a PPI 
policy at around the same  time.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy  which wouldve 
paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  for each successful accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment claim Mr H brought.
Mr and Mrs H say Halifax led them to believe the PPI was compulsory. And they say Mr Hs 
workplace benefits  meant they didnt need  it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint didnt  uphold  it. They  disagree  and 
so their complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Halifax hasnt been  able to give us any paperwork from the time of the sale. 
But this isnt unusual  for a sale that took place over 20 years ago, and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. And Mr and Mrs Hs recollections of the sale arent 
detailed. Because  of this lack of information,  I dont have enough to say its likely Halifax 
didnt give Mr and Mrs H a choice in taking out the PPI or that they didnt  agree  to it, so I 
cant uphold their complaint for either of these reasons.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it needed to make sure the PPI 
was right for them. Based on what they say of their circumstances  at the time and the policy 
details Ive seen,  I think that it was. For example,  it doesnt seem Mr H was affected  by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI  so there was nothing to stop him from claiming  the 
full policy  benefit  if hed needed to. 
Mr and Mrs H say Mr H wouldve  got some sick pay if hed been off work because  of 
sickness or an accident. But, as Ive mentioned,  the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months for each successful accident or sickness claim  he made. This was longer than his 
full sick pay lasted for. And it wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay  and also if he lost 
his job. So, especially bearing  in mind Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was a significant and long-
term financial commitment secured on their home  which was at risk if they fell behind with 
their mortgage repayments  I think the PPI still gave Mr and Mrs H a useful benefit.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, as Ive said, I havent  seen enough to make  me think  they 
didnt agree to it or know they had a choice about it. And I think  it wouldve been  useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think clearer  
Ref: DRN77457192information from Halifax about the PPI  if it had been needed   wouldve put them  off taking 
out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7745719