K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI)  decision to reject a claim  under
their home insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  in July explaining why I was minded to uphold  
this complaint. And I thought a fair outcome was for UKI to pay £1,000 compensation, take 
over the claim against Mr and Mrs D and pay any costs, expenses and legal fees Mr D had 
paid out in relation to the third-party claim. Ive copied that decision  at the end of this final 
decision.
Mr and Mrs D informed us that they now had a solicitor who they gave consent to deal with 
us. And the solicitor  provided further information  and documents, the most  noteworthy  being;
Court  proceedings  against Mr and Mrs D hadnt yet been  issued.
A Standstill Agreement dated 13 May 2020  between Mr and Mrs D and the thirty-
party claimant.
A letter dated 23 June 2020  from the solicitors  to the third-party solicitors saying they 
now acted for Mr and Mrs D.
UKI responded to explain;
The third-party claim wasnt raised  until the letter  of claim dated 11 February 2020, 
which post-dates Mr and Mrs Ds complaint to us.
Prior to this there  was no claim for damages against Mr and Mrs D, simply a request 
by the third-party  to Mr and Mrs D to remove some  vegetation to prevent future  
damage.
The third-party claim relates only to additional  costs to underpin their house  due to 
Mr and Mrs Ds refusal to remove vegetation.
The maintenance Mr and Mrs D were asked to do is not an insured event.
It acknowledges that it should have stepped in when it received the letter  of claim in 
February to defend/settle or take up any claim.
As this occurred after Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to us it should not form 
part of this decision. Mr and Mrs D can take up a new complaint about  this.
To try and move  things on though UKI propose  to step in and take over the claim 
against Mr and Mrs D.
It is happy to reimburse  Mr and Mrs Ds reasonable  outlay related directly  to the legal 
claim (post January 2020)  but it will not pay anything towards 
maintenance/preventative work  to vegetation. But this shouldnt form part of this 
decision.
As no liability claim had been  made against  Mr and Mrs D, compensation and 
interest should not apply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the issue about whether a separate complaint should be set-up. Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint was about the fact that, as they saw it, UKI had rejected their claim.  And my 
provisional thoughts were  that UKI had misdirected itself on the interpretation  of the policy 
and so it dealt  with claim according  to that misdirection. 
Ref: DRN74479102Having considered all the information  carefully  I remain of the same view.  The way the 
matter was dealt  with was almost  exclusively based on the fact that UKI considered claims 
under Part D of the policy only valid where the damage was caused in sudden and 
unforeseen circumstances. And it was because UKI took this erroneous view that it didnt 
take over and defend or settle the claim against  Mr and Mrs D. So even if I thought a new 
complaint should  be set-up, Id still be upholding this one. And the consequences would be 
Mr and Mrs D and UKI go through an artificial complaint process that would  take more  time 
when the issues  can be considered under the original complaint  about the rejected claim. 
Ill now deal with the other issues  raised  in response to my provisional decision.  UKI has said 
it will take over the claim and it asked for any papers Mr and Mrs D may have. Weve  
provided those to UKI, and it said it intended to contact Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors.  What isnt 
clear is what information  Mr and Mrs D gave  UKI, for example  a copy of the Standstill 
Agreement. And UKI make a valid point about  the fact it did offer support and funded  some  
expert reports when it wasnt contractually obliged to.
So, Ive thought carefully about what is likely to have happened  had UKI taken over the 
claim. UKI is correct  that there was no formal legal claim and as part of its advice to Mr and 
Mrs D UKI gave  three options.  The do nothing option wasnt recommended, and Mr and 
Mrs D refused to accept that their vegetation was the causal factor.  And from what Ive seen 
the experts have different views on what is causing the damage to the third-party property.  I 
remain satisfied that UKI would have picked up relevant costs in dealing  with the matter and 
so UKI should pay any costs, expenses and legal fees Mr D has paid out in relation to the 
third-party claim, subject  to evidence of payment. 
To that end it is appropriate for me to be more  detailed  about the fees.  Im satisfied UKI 
should cover  costs, expenses and legal fees Mr D has paid out in relation to the third-party 
claim, subject to evidence  of payment.  But this is limited  to the date we sent my provisional  
decision by email to Mr and Mrs D (24 July 2020). This is because  at that point, considering  
the terms of the Settlement Agreement (section 3 suspending relevant limitation periods),  
there was no imperative for Mr and Mrs D to incur further costs.  And because  these are 
costs that I think wouldnt  have been incurred  if UKI hadnt misdirected itself on the policy  
wording, interest  attaches from the date of payment. Its worth saying that costs should  
always be reasonable, and it is these that UKI must  reimburse. To that end, I asked Mr and 
Mrs D for evidence  of the legal costs theyd incurred and paid, and weve provided a copy to 
UKI. 
Mr and Mrs D appear  to have paid £4,608 although costs actually incurred up to the date of 
my provisional decision are £2,878 as set out by Mr D. So, Im satisfied UKI should refund 
£2,878 plus interest  from 22 July 2020 (date paid)  to the date UKI issues the refund. The 
remaining amount  may be on account,  for example it may have included Counsels 
conference cost that was scheduled for early August but cancelled.  
UKI responded to say it accepted my decision and was resolving  issues associated with Mr 
and Mrs Ds legal costs  and had established  contact  with their solicitors.
I remain satisfied that UKIs handling caused  Mr and Mrs D distress and inconvenience as 
described in my provisional  decision and that £1,000 is a fair and reasonable reflection. Mr D 
hasnt had the level of support he would have got had UKI stepped  in much earlier  to assist. 
Hes been dealing with solicitors acting for the third-partys insurer  and having  to attend site 
inspections and correspondence of a legal nature  that hes found stressful.
Ref: DRN74479103Given Im still of the view that UKI must take over the claim against  Mr and Mrs D in keeping  
with the claims conditions in the policy, I cant proscribe  what that outcome should be. UKI 
may, among many possibilities, instruct its own legal team  or it may reach  a negotiated 
settlement with the third party. If Mr and Mrs D disagree with UKIs final decision  on their 
claim, they would need to take that up with UKI first. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to do the following;
Pay Mr and Mrs D £2,878 for the legal costs incurred and paid adding  simple interest 
at 8% per year from 22 July 2020  to the date UKI issues  the payment.
oif UKI considers that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give Mr D a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr and Mrs D £1,000 compensation
oUKI must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr and Mrs D accept my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN74479104provisional decision
complaint by: Mr and Mrs D
complaint about: U K Insurance Limited
date of decision: 24 July 2020
complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI)  decision to reject a claim  under  
their home insurance policy.
Mr D has represented Mrs D throughout this complaint and so Ill only refer to him in this 
decision.
background
The background to this complaint is well-known  to the parties so I wont explain it in any 
detail. In summary, a third-party has initiated  legal  proceedings against Mr D alleging that he 
is responsible for causing damage. Mr D thinks his home insurance policy  should  give him 
cover in relation  to the third-partys  claim.  But UKI has declined cover  on the basis that the 
alleged cause of the damage  is not a result of accidental damage. Presently, Mr D is faced  
with the prospect of owing a significant sum of money in the event the claim against him is 
upheld by the court.
Our investigator didnt  think UKI had acted outside the policy  terms or unfairly. She 
explained the crux of the complaint centred on accidental damage, defined  in the policy  as 
sudden and unintentional physical damage that occurs unexpectedly. It was apparent that 
UKI had considered the claim under the Occupiers and Personal Liabilities part of the policy, 
which says:
We will pay all amounts you become legally liable to pay as damages, in your capacity as 
occupier of your home, or for any other reason, as a result of:
a) Accidental  death or bodily  injury  to any person and/or
b) Accidental  loss of or damage to any property,
Which happened  during  the period of insurance shown in your schedule.
Mr D had made several points, but he thought UKIs  definition was significant and out of line 
with an ordinary meaning. He said UKI should  have pointed  this out specifically and it wasnt 
brought to his attention.  In short, Mr D said UKI shouldnt be able to rely on the definition as 
defined in the policy.
Our investigator explained the definition was a common  one in the industry  and didnt think  it 
was unusual. She also said that Mr D had demonstrated hed received  policy  documents in 
previous years and so was satisfied he had access to his policy  terms. The investigator went  
on to explain that it had been made clear to Mr D that the third-party had requested  he carry 
out specific actions  to abate the damage. Letter from the third-party insurers  solicitors had 
made this clear as well as the consequences  of legal  action and costs  if Mr D didnt 
Ref: DRN74479105acquiesce to the request. The investigator  said that she wasnt  persuaded Mr D would have 
acted differently had UKIs initial communication been clearer  at the outset of the claim. This 
was because notwithstanding the threat of court action and its incumbent costs,  Mr D had 
chosen not to take any remedial action within his property and the matter had eventually 
reached court.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what  I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.  DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take 
into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time.
I appreciate Mr D is currently  faced with a terrifically stressful set of circumstances both with 
the potential financial  impact of the court proceedings and personal issues. And I thank him 
for the detailed information hes provided  both in substance and timeliness. For the 
avoidance of doubt, the issues  Im deciding in this complaint are not those that are part of 
the court proceedings. This complaint is about UKIs liability  or otherwise under the home  
insurance policy. The court case involves a claim for costs against Mr D in relation  to work 
carried out by the third-partys insurer.
The contractual relationship between Mr D and UKI is predicated  on the policy  wording 
which sets out, among  other matters, when UKI will be responsible for providing cover to 
Mr D. The investigator set out the relevant  part of the policy  and its included  in the 
background section,  which is section 2, part D of the policy (Occupiers and Personal  
Liabilities). The main  issue  is whether Mr D has become legally liable to pay an amount as 
damages as a result of accidental loss of or damage to property.
As things  stand, Mr D hasnt become legally liable to pay an amount as damages  this is 
the issue that the court will determine.  So, thinking about what that means  in this complaint 
shows there is no obligation on UKI to pay anything. However,  UKI has taken a pragmatic 
approach to the effect that if Mr D is at risk of having  to pay an amount as damages,  then if it 
falls within  accidental loss of or damage  to property  (paragraph b) section  2, part D of the 
policy) it would provide  cover. And of course,  prudent insurers seek to minimise  costs where 
they can and so often become involved in assisting policyholders  to mitigate  against  rising 
legal costs.
The policy booklet  Ive been provided with has a section of Definitions which  defines  certain  
words and phrases  used  throughout the policy documentation. One of the defined phrases is 
Accidental Damage  sudden  and unintentional physical damage that occurs 
unexpectedly. And its this that is the centre of this complaint. 
Where a phrase  or word  is specifically  defined references to these appear in the policy in 
bold. And its clear  that the phrase accidental damage appears numerous times  and in 
Ref: DRN74479106bold. Where this happens  its apparent that UKI seeks to apply the definition.  However,  
under part D UKI has not included the specifically defined  phrase accidental damage and 
so I dont agree that the definition UKI has relied  on to reject  Mr Ds claim is relevant or fair. 
Indeed, it was open to UKI to use a more specific definition in part D simply by inserting the 
phrase and putting it in bold as it has done  elsewhere in the policy. 
Indeed, the phrase accidental damage is an additional level of cover  that Mr D could have 
bought as identified in the policy schedule where it says,  The Accidental Damage cover  
detailed in paragraph C is available at an extra premium. And indeed,  the cover  provided in 
paragraph C in the policy relates specifically to section 2 Contents cover.  In my view, its 
clear that the defined  phrase is not relevant to cover under part D Property Owners 
Liability. Its also apparent that Mr D didnt pay an additional premium for accidental 
damage cover. On UKIs  approach that would mean  a significant restriction under  the 
Occupiers and Personal  Liabilities part, but that clearly isnt the intended meaning of what  is 
written into this part of the policy. 
The wording  under section 2 part D paragraph b) (accidental loss of or damage  to any 
property) is such that I think its fair to give it a broader definition  than UKI has. Its implicit 
that the damage should be accidental as insurance  doesnt usually cover damage 
intentionally caused by a policyholder. But here where the specific  policy  definition  doesnt 
apply, I think its fair to interpret cover  applying where the damage hasnt been caused  
intentionally by Mr D. The alleged  damage is apparently a result of tree root impact and Im 
satisfied thats  unintentional. So, Im satisfied  Mr D benefits, in principle, from the cover in 
part D.
Under part D what UKI will cover is quite specific, UKI did get involved in 2014  and wrote  to 
Mr D. Part D also says UKI will pay costs,  expenses and legal fees for defending the 
policyholder so long as it has agreed to do so in writing beforehand. Though, Im mindful  that 
when the issue  of damage  was originally raised  by the third-party and Mr D informed UKI, 
UKI wrote to Mr D (9 December 2014) outlining three options; 
1.Mr D could obtain his own experts  report, and tree maintenance should be done  
once necessary permissions are obtained
2.Mr D could remove the trees having  obtained  necessary  permissions
3.Do nothing.
The letter continued that UKI did not recommend the third option outlining  why, including that 
it may prejudice UKIs  ability to deal with any future claim. What  appears to be the situation  
is that Mr D has not accepted that his trees are the cause of the alleged damage  to the third-
partys property. And in consequence he hasnt carried out any remedial action to prevent or 
stop the alleged damage.  
UKI wrote subsequently to Mr D in 2017  and 2018  and whats apparent  is that UKI made 
offers to fund the cost of obtaining advice from a relevant  expert. But any remedial action, if 
needed, would fall to Mr D or another named  party but not UKI. Ive seen an email from an 
engineer who said there  was insufficient evidence to determine on the balance  of probability, 
whether Mr Ds trees were the cause  of the damage  to third-party property.  
This brings  me to what I think UKI needs to do to put things right.  It seems  to me that UKI 
misdirected itself on policy coverage, incorrectly relying on the specific  definition of 
accidental damage.  UKI did cover  the cost of an expert report given Mr Ds longstanding  
relationship as a customer. In these circumstances  I think it more likely than not that UKI 
would have agreed to support Mr D had it correctly interpreted the policy under part D of 
Ref: DRN74479107section 2. And so, this means UKI would have paid costs,  expenses and legal fees for 
defending Mr D and I think thats a fair outcome here. In addition, it is common  practice  for 
insurers in situations  such as this to take over, defend or settle a claim, or take up any claim 
in the policyholders  name. This is included in Mr Ds policy and so Im satisfied that UKI 
should do so here.  
UKI has tried to balance  its sense  of goodwill by agreeing to pay for an expert  report  but its 
decision on the issue Mr D brought hasnt been handled fairly. Mr D hasnt had the level of 
support he would have got had UKI stepped  in much earlier  to assist.  Hes been dealing  with 
solicitors acting for the third-partys insurer and having to attend site inspections and 
correspondence of a legal nature that hes found  stressful. And so, for the inconvenience 
and distress that Mr D has suffered over a lengthy period consequently, UKI should pay 
compensation of £1,000.
For clarity there  is no cover  for remedial action  to the trees  and so removal  / maintenance 
costs, if required, would fall to Mr D.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to do the following;
Pay Mr and Mrs D £1,000 compensation.
Take over the claim against Mr and Mrs D in keeping with the claims conditions in the 
policy.
Pay any costs, expenses and legal fees Mr D has paid out in relation  to the third-
party claim, subject  to evidence of payment by Mr and Mrs D.
oUKI should add simple interest  at 8% per year from the date of payment by 
Mr and Mrs D to the date UKI sends  the refund.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7447910