K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  about the amount that shes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance,  for damage to a car that she 
returned when  she ended  a hire purchase agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss G under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Finance that she signed in June 2015. She voluntarily terminated the agreement in 
January 2019  and Mercedes-Benz  Finance arranged for the car to be inspected  by a third 
party. The inspection report identified damage  with an estimated repair  cost of £502.50. 
Miss G disputed  the estimate  and arranged for the damage to be repaired by a garage. 
The car was then collected  from her by the third party at the end of that month  but other 
damage to the car was identified  scratches  on the tailgate and right rear door and a dent to 
the right hand  front wing.  Mercedes-Benz Finance charged her £680  for that damage. She 
complained to it and it removed  the charge for the dent and offered to reduce the other 
charges by 15% to £357. Miss G wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the scratch 
on the door appeared to be a light surface  scratch that hadnt breached the paint surface  
so he didnt think that the £210 charge for it was appropriate. But he thought that the £210 
for the scratched tailgate had been  charged  fairly.  He appreciated that an initial inspection 
didnt identify the areas of damage noted on the second inspection report  but damage had 
been evidenced on collection so he recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should  
reduce its invoice to £210.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It says that the primer is evident in the scratch on the door as the colour  of the car is no 
longer visible in both images  of damage and the charge to rectify that damage should  still 
apply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G had agreed in the hire purchase  agreement to:
return the Vehicle  to us in good  condition, repair and working order  (fair wear and 
tear excepted); and:
If the Vehicle is not in good condition, repair and working order when it is returned to 
us . to compensate  us for any loss that we suffer .
Miss G voluntarily  terminated the agreement in January 2019 and Mercedes-Benz  Finance 
arranged for the car to be inspected by a third party on its behalf. The inspection report  
identified damage  with an estimated repair cost of £502.50. Miss G disputed  the estimate  
and arranged for the damage to be repaired by a garage. 
Ref: DRN71154942The car was then collected  from her by the third party later that month  but scratches on the 
tailgate and right rear door and a dent to the right hand front wing were  identified. Shed had 
damaged repaired  but I consider that she was responsible for any damage  to the car at the 
time that it was collected that was more than fair wear and tear. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance agreed  to remove the charge  for the dent and offered to reduce the 
other charges by 15% to £357. Ive looked at the photos of the damage.  I consider it to be 
clear that the tailgate has multiple  scratches so its fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to charge Miss G for that damage.
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that the scratch to the door has 
gone through the paint  or is more than would  reasonably be considered  to be fair wear  and 
tear on a car thats three and a half years  old and has been driven for 23,788 miles. So Im 
not persuaded that a charge of £210  is justified for the scratch  to the door. 
I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance has acted  incorrectly in connection with the 
inspections of the car  so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to pay any compensation  to Miss G, or to take any other action, because of that. 
But I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to reduce the total charge for damage  to the car to £210. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint and I order Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to reduce the total 
charge for damage to the car to £210.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7115494