K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  lent money to him he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr P entered into four fixed sum loan agreements with Mr Lender  between June 2015 and 
January 2017.  He says that he was suffering  financial hardship at the time and that he had a 
number of other short term loans from other providers. He says that adequate  checks  
werent carried out before the loans  were provided  and that the loans made his financial 
situation worse.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out affordability  checks  
including checking  Mr Ps employment and credit file. It says that Mr P had no accounts that 
had defaulted  in the previous three years and that nothing it gathered suggested he was in 
financial difficulty.
Mr Lender says that Mr Ps monthly  disposable  income was sufficient to cover the cost of the 
repayments and that the loans were settled  without issue.
Our adjudicator thought that the checks carried out before the first two loans were provided 
were sufficient. She thought that further checks should have taken place  before  the third and 
fourth loans  were provided, specifically checks regarding Mr Ps other short term loan 
commitments. She said that had these happened, Mr Lender  would have  realised that the 
third loan was not affordable. She recommended that the interest  and charges on the third 
loan be refunded.
Mr Lender did not agree  that the third loan shouldnt have been provided.  It said that 
although the loan amount had increased  the highest  repayment was 17% of Mr Ps monthly 
income. Given this it said the checks carried out were sufficient and that they didnt show 
any signs of financial difficulty. It said that as part of its assessment of Mr Ps income and 
expenses it assessed  other short term loans.
my provisional conclusions:
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the checks carried out before the first two loans were provided were sufficient. The 
credit checks didnt  raise concerns that would have required  further  check  to take 
place and Mr Ps disposable  income was enough to cover  his repayments;
the third loan was for a much  larger amount,  £1,000  and was taken out as soon as 
the second loan was repaid. However I still thought the checks  carried  out were  
sufficient and these  didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan;
by the time of the fourth loan Mr Lender should have been concerned that Mr P might  
have become dependent on short term borrowing. Mr Lender asked Mr P about his 
other loans in the application process but I thought  it should have specifically asked 
about other short term loan commitments;
Ref: DRN75599392had further  information about short term loans been requested  at the time of the 
fourth loan I didnt find that this would have suggested the loan was unaffordable.
Mr P didnt accept my provisional  decision. He said he wasnt able to repay his loans without 
taking out further  borrowing and that had Mr Lender made  a reasonable assessment of 
affordability it would have realised he couldnt  meet the repayments in a sustainable manner. 
He said that taking out multiple repeat short term loans showed  he was experiencing 
financial difficulty. He also said that his credit  file showed other short term loans  and that his 
disposable income wasnt sufficient to meet his repayments.
Mr P asked why my provisional decision came to a different conclusion  to that of our 
adjudicator in regard to the third loan.  He also said that as soon as he had repaid a loan he 
was sent offers of further lending which he believed was bad practice as he was desperate  
and Mr Lender took advantage of this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr P Mr Lender had to make sure each time that he could afford 
to repay  the loans.  Affordability checks should  be proportionate. What  is proportionate 
depends on things  like - but not limited to - the size of the loan, the repayments, what  
Mr Lender knew about  Mr P, and the things he told Mr Lender about his circumstances.
Mr P took out four loans  with Mr Lender.
Loan Date Term Amount Repaid
1 June 2015 6 months £400 December 2015
2 December 2015 6 months £500 June 2016
3 June 2016 6 months £1,000 December 2016
4 January 2017 6 months £600 August 2017
I understand that Mr P believes further  checks should have been carried  out before  the loans 
were provided. I also note his comments about the timing of his loans. However, as I set out 
in my provisional decision,  I think that the checks carried out before  the first three loans were 
provided were sufficient. These included income  and expenditure assessments which 
showed the repayments were affordable.  Mr  Lender also carried  out credit checks and while  
the information provided from these is limited I do not think it raised concerns that required 
further investigation.
Although I thought further information should  have been gathered  before the fourth loan was 
provided I didnt find that had this happened it would have shown the loan to be 
unaffordable.
My decision  in regard  to the third loan is different to the view set out by our adjudicator.  This 
is because, based on the information provided  I didnt  think that further checks  were required 
at that stage. I say this because this was the third loan in the lending chain and given the 
size of the repayment compared to Mr Ps declared  income I think  the checks were 
sufficient. The information gathered  at this time didnt raise concerns  that I felt needed  
further investigation.
Ref: DRN75599393Mr P has provided copies of marketing  material that was sent to him when he repaid his 
loans and has mentioned the contact made by Mr Lender about  further  borrowing. I 
understand Mr Ps comments  about  this but I dont find that Mr Lender  did anything  wrong  by 
contacting Mr P about further lending. Clearly  any lending should only happen once 
appropriate checks have  been completed  and if it is considered the repayments are 
sustainably affordable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7559939