K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about a packaged  bank  account, called a Reward  Silver  account, 
which National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  sold to him in 2018.
Mr E paid a monthly  fee for the account  and received several  potential  benefits in return. He 
thinks that Natwest mis-sold the account to him because it didnt tell him about  the terms and 
conditions of some of the insurance policies which came with the account.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Es complaint and didnt think that 
Natwest had treated him unfairly. 
Mr E didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Es case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mr E and Natwest have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr E has banked  with Natwest for over four years. During our investigation into his 
complaint, Natwest has sent us information  from its records which it says shows that: 
in October 2015, Mr E opened a fee-free  account 
in March 2018, he switched to the Reward Silver  account,  for which  he paid a fee 
in June 2019, he switched back to a fee-free account.
Mr E seems  to have accepted this account  history and I have taken it to be accurate.  
Similarly, both Mr E and Natwest have told us that Mr E switched to the Reward Silver 
account during  a meeting  at one of its branches, and again I have taken this be correct. 
Ref: DRN73064122Amongst other things, in 2015, the potential  benefits  of the Reward  Silver account  included 
cheaper overdrafts than Natwest gave to customers  with fee-free accounts along with 
insurance policies  for mobile phones and travel  in Europe. 
Natwest has also sent us information from its records which seem to show  that Mr E made  
two successful claims on the mobile phone insurance policy,  the first in May 2018  and the 
second in February  2019. 
Mr E raised his complaint with Natwest after he needed to make a third claim, during May 
2019. Hes told us that the insurer said that it wouldnt  accept  this claim as the terms and 
conditions of the policy only allowed one claim within any twelve  month period. 
Mr E has sent us a copy of a letter which the insurer sent to him at the time of his third claim 
which confirms that it denied the claim in the way he has described; and Ive also seen a 
Welcome Pack for the Reward Silver  account  which explains that a customer  can only 
make one claim per year on the mobile phone  insurance. It says that customers are allowed 
one approved  claim in any 12 month  period. 
Mr E has accepted that he made  the third claim within  12 months of the second one, and his 
complaint is very precise. Hes said that Natwest didnt give him a copy of the terms and 
conditions of the policy during the meeting, so he didnt know about the restriction  on the 
number of claims he could make until he tried to make his third claim. 
In correspondence,  Natwest has accepted  that it didnt give the terms and conditions of the 
policy to Mr E during  the meeting. It has said that on that occasion it made  an error and 
apologised to Mr E. But it has gone  on to say that the day after the meeting it sent Mr E a 
copy of the Welcome Pack, which I mentioned earlier, by email.  
Mr E has questioned whether Natwest really sent him this Welcome Pack, but Natwest 
quoted the same email address as Mr E has given  to us and I think  that it probably did. I 
dont know what led to Natwests  error during the meeting,  but Im satisfied that it behaved  
reasonably in sending the Welcome Pack one day later.
I also think its quite possible that Mr E may have gone ahead and bought the Reward Silver 
account even  if Natwest had given him the terms and condition  during the meeting.  After all, 
at the time, he didnt  know how many claims he was going to have  to make and may have 
considered that one per year was likely to be enough. I also understand that he travelled in 
Europe from time-to-time  and so may have found the travel insurance  a potentially attractive 
benefit. Indeed, Mr E has told us that he called  the company that provided the travel 
insurance about some health conditions which affected him, so it seems that Natwest told 
him about this benefit and it was of interest  to him.
Mr E has also mentioned that he has recently asked for a further copy  of the Welcome Pack 
but Natwest refused  to send it to him. Natwest has not commented on this directly, and I 
dont know exactly what happened. But Mr E is free to ask Natwest  again if he so wishes,  or 
if he prefers, he may be able to find an up-to-date  version online on Natwests website. 
Turning briefly to Mr Es first two claims. From  the information Natwest has given to us, it 
looks like Mr E made these two claims within the same 12 month period, but the insurer  still 
accepted them. I dont know how or why this happened and there are numerous  possible 
explanations. For example,  there  may be a mistake in Natwests records,  or Mr E may have 
been the beneficiary of an error  or offer of goodwill in his favour by the insurer,  or there  may 
Ref: DRN73064123have been some other factor  of which I am not aware. However, whatever the reason may 
have been, I dont think it affects this complaint, which is about events that had already taken 
place. 
Finally, although  Mr Es complaint has been very precise, in fairness to him, I have also 
considered if Natwest may have  mis-sold  the account to him in any other  way.
Mr E has told us that Natwest recommended the Reward Silver  account to him during  the 
meeting. Natwest has denied this. It has told us that it sold the account on an information  
only basis,  without giving any advice. As I wasnt present during the meeting, I cant tell for 
sure what  happened, but I think its quite possible that Mr E understood from the discussion 
that Natwest was recommending the Reward  Silver  account to him. However,  given Mr Es 
potential need  for mobile phone and travel  insurance, I think it would have been reasonable 
for Natwest to make  such a recommendation.
It also seems  to me that Natwest gave Mr E a choice  about keeping his fee-free  account  or 
switching to the Reward Silver account and to have told him about the monthly fees.  So I 
dont think that Natwest mis-sold the Reward  Silver account to Mr E. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Es complaint about 
National Westminster Bank Plc, I am not going  to tell it to give him any money  back.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7306412