K820x#14complaint
M  a company  has complained about  a fixed  interest rate commercial loan which  it took 
out from Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc in 2007.  
It has said that the bank  didnt  provide enough information about  the fixed  rate, and 
particularly about  the break  costs that might apply if M repaid the loan early.  
background
M borrowed  money to buy commercial property,  which was let to a tenant. The interest rate 
on the loan was fixed for ten years.
Our adjudicator agreed that the information the bank had provided about  the possible  cost of 
early repayment (ie about the break costs) was inadequate.  She didnt think M could have 
worked out from that information quite how much  the break costs might be if M repaid the 
loan early. 
But she didnt think that fixing  the interest rate for ten years was inappropriate for Ms 
business model. She noted that the property had been let to the same tenant for several  
years and there didnt  appear to be any intention on Ms part to sell the property in the 
foreseeable future. 
The adjudicator concluded that M wouldnt have acted any differently and would still have 
taken out the loan with the ten-year interest rate fix, even if the bank had given M adequate 
information about the size of the potential break  costs. 
So the adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms complaint. 
M didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion, so the case has been passed  to an 
ombudsman for review. M didnt put forward any additional evidence  or arguments for me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint M but Ive decided 
not to uphold the companys complaint.
My reasons  are broadly  similar to those given  by the adjudicator. I also agree  that the crucial 
question is whether M would have acted any differently if it had been  adequately informed 
about the possible size of the break costs. 
The available correspondence  clearly  indicates that the initiative for the ten-year fixed 
interest rate came from M, not from the bank.  And this was after M had earlier considered 
and rejected other forms of interest  rate hedging. So there  was no apparent pressure from 
the bank to enter into the fixed rate loan.
M entered into the fixed rate loan at a time (July 2007) when market interest rates  were  still 
rising, and since August  2006 Bank  of England base rate had risen five times. 
Ref: DRN70513862The purpose of the loan was to part-fund the purchase of two neighbouring commercial units  
which were let to the same tenant. Subject to renewal,  the leases of the units continued  in 
existence with the same tenant until M repaid the fixed  rate loan in 2015.
M had no apparent  need or wish to sell the units in the foreseeable future. 
So like the adjudicator, I think the fixed rate loan suited Ms circumstances and preferences 
in 2007.
I too am of the view that the bank didnt adequately explain quite how large the break costs  
might be if the loan were  repaid early.  At Ms request the bank gave some estimates before 
the loan was entered into, but on the whole I dont think  those estimates brought home to M 
the potential size of the break  costs.
When assessing the risks of high break  costs  against the advantages of fixing the interest 
rate, M would no doubt have taken into account  among other  things (a) the likelihood  of 
interest rates falling to, and remaining for a long time at, very low levels  and (b) the relatively 
small size of the loan (£150k) and the fact that Ms liabilities  to the bank  were  guaranteed by 
a larger  sister company.  
There was also considerable equity in the units, so M would no doubt have calculated that 
there was hardly  any possibility it would be unable to redeem the loan even if break costs 
were large. 
In light of these  considerations, I too think its a reasonable  conclusion to draw  that M would 
probably still have  entered  into the fixed rate loan even if it had been adequately informed 
about the potential size of break  costs.  
Finally, Ms representative raised  a point about possible commission  paid for the sale  of the 
fixed rate loan and the effect  this might have had on the relationship between the bank and 
M. It appears no commission was paid to an intermediary, but in any event M knew  the 
crucial points of how much it was borrowing and the interest to be paid. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7051386