K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Staveley Head  Ltd gave him wrong information about the price of a 
commercial motor insurance policy. He wants £100  compensation  for his telephone calls and 
time spent.   
background
Mr J completed  an application for a policy online  and then spoke to Staveley Head to get a 
quote. He was asked to confirm information hed provided about a dashcam and his 
qualifications and a quote was provided. Two weeks later,  he called Staveley Head to 
complete the purchase and was told that the quoted premium had increased. Mr J said the 
first agent  hadnt asked  him about  his qualifications. He said he then had to take time off 
work to find insurance  elsewhere. 
Mr J also complained that Staveley Head hadnt  made it clear  that it was a broker  and not an 
insurer. He thought this had prevented him from making an informed choice. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  
Staveley Heads agents had verified the information Mr J had provided.  She thought the first 
agent has asked  Mr J about his qualifications  and hed entered  the same information online.  
She thought  Mr J had later provided  different information which  changed the quoted  
premium. So she didnt  think Staveley Head had done anything wrong. She also thought 
Staveley Head had made it clear that it was the broker. 
Mr J replied that he was unhappy with this. He asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Js frustration that the price hed been quoted increased significantly 
between the two calls. Our investigator  has already explained that this complaint is about the 
brokers actions so we cant  consider  the actions of the underwriter that sets the premium.  
Staveley Head said the price for the policy increased because  Mr J hadnt  given  it the correct  
information about a qualification  that would lead to a discount. Mr J applied for his policy  
online and I can see that he said he had the relevant qualifications. 
Like the investigator, Ive considered the two calls Mr J made  to Staveley Head when  he 
wanted to buy a policy. The agents both verified  the information Mr J had provided. In the 
first call, Mr J confirmed  that he had two qualifications. The agent provided a quote  which  
would be held but not guaranteed. But in the second call, Mr J said he didnt have one of the 
qualifications. So the discount  was removed and the price  increased. 
In the calls, I think Staveley Head made it clear that there was a policy underwriter. And Mr J 
himself asked at one stage who the underwriter was. So I think  it was made reasonably clear 
that Staveley  Head  was the broker. And so I dont think it did anything  to mislead Mr J. 
Ref: DRN78186522So I think Staveley  Head acted on the information  that Mr J provided. I can understand that 
Mr J may have  been confused about the two qualifications he was asked about. But I cant  
say Staveley Head  acted  unfairly or unreasonably or that its responsible for Mr Js 
expenses. And so I dont require it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7818652