K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK plc, Alliance and Leicester at the 
time, mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
When Mr and Mrs H first complained to us they said that they didnt  recall  PPI being 
mentioned and it was added  to their account without their knowledge and consent. More  
recently Mr and Mrs H have complained  to say that they were told they had to take out the 
PPI or they wouldnt get the mortgage. The PPI was sold a long time ago  around 16 years  
ago  so I can understand if Mr and Mrs H cant remember exactly what happened  at the 
time. But Ive considered  what theyve said along with the other evidence available to come 
to a decision on what I think  is more  likely  to have happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application form and in this there is a section 
about PPI where  there is a tick in the box to say  Mr and Mrs H wanted to take out PPI cover  
and that a completed PPI application  form was attached. But there was also an option to say 
that Mr and Mrs H didnt  want  to take out PPI. So I think they wouldve known they had a 
choice about taking it out and Ive not seen  anything which suggests their mortgage wouldnt 
be approved if they decided  not to. Mr and Mrs H signed this application form to consent  to 
the information contained within it  and as this was their mortgage application I think  its 
likely they read and checked through  the information entered in this document before signing 
it.
Ive also seen a copy of a welcome letter which was sent to Mr and Mrs H following the sale 
of the policy. This included a schedule of the cover which outlined the basic  details of the 
cover they chose to take out. 
So based  on this evidence, I think Santander  made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this.
Mr and Mrs H say that they werent  given any advice or recommendation to take out the PPI. 
Santander says it did. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage interview record  which states that 
advice and recommendations were  made  in relation  to the mortgage  and the PPI. Mr and 
Mrs H have also signed this document. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H were  given  advice 
to take out the policy. 
As a recommended  sale Santander had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H. 
Ive seen that Mrs H was suffering from a medical condition  at the time of sale and that the 
PPI wouldnt have  covered her from any claim made  in relation to this condition. But Mrs H 
says she was taking  medication for this condition and that it didnt affect her daily life. So I 
Ref: DRN76665922dont think this condition  meant that the policy wasnt right for her as I think its unlikely she 
wouldve needed to claim for this. 
Ive considered everything else Ive been  told about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time and based  on what Ive seen; I think the policy was suitable for them. I say this 
because, with the exception of the exclusion  mentioned above, they dont seem to have 
been affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and they seem to 
have had a need for the cover. 
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldve been  entitled to sick pay from their employers at the time 
and they couldve  relied on each others  salaries in the event one of them was unable  to 
work. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their sick pay and for longer. This means 
their sick pay couldve  been used for other  expenses. Even  though they couldve relied  on 
each other,  I think its likely they wouldve had other household bills to maintain on just one 
income. And I think they wouldve  struggled financially if they were both out of work. Mr and 
Mrs H have also made reference to a life and critical illness policy that they had at the time.  
But this policy was designed to cover them for other eventualities  than the PPI  so I dont 
think this meant the PPI was unsuitable for them. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Santander  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN76665923The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Santander UK plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666592