K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Curo  Transatlantic Limited  trading as Wage  Day Advance (WDA) lent 
him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr K took out five loans with WDA  between March and September  2015. A summary of     
Mr Ks borrowing  is as follows:
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
AmountAmount to be 
repaid
1 17/03/2015 14/04/2015 £300 £362
2 16/04/2015 08/06/2015 £400 £560
3 13/06/2015 06/08/2015 £400 £570
4 14/08/2015 07/09/2015 £400 £467
5 19/09/2015 unpaid £400 £550
WDA recorded Mr Ks monthly  income  before loans one to four as being  £1,520  with 
expenses of £650. By loan five, WDA recorded  a higher income figure  of £1,750  with 
monthly outgoings of £930.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ks complaint be upheld in part. He didnt think that 
any of the checks  that WDA carried out went far enough. 
As the adjudicator didnt have copy bank  statements  he couldnt  say for sure what Mr K 
wouldve said about his living expense and regular financial commitments. So the 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint about loan one be upheld. 
The adjudicator thought  that by loan two, WDA shouldve also asked Mr K whether he had 
any other short term loans. If it had done this, the adjudicator  thought WDA wouldve 
discovered that Mr K couldnt afford the repayment  as he was left with a negative disposable 
income. 
The adjudicator thought  that for loan three  onwards, WDA shouldve  tried to independently 
verify Mr Ks financial circumstances. Although the adjudicator didnt have bank statements 
for the relevant period, he had a copy of Mr Ks credit report. This showed a large number of 
outstanding payday loans.  Taking these into account with Mr Ks declared outgoings; the 
adjudicator didnt think loans three to five wouldve appeared  affordable with better checks.
The adjudicator recommended that WDA refund all interest and charges that Mr K had paid 
on loans two to five, together with interest on the refund.  The adjudicator  asked WDA to 
remove any negative information  about the affected loans from Mr Ks credit file
WDA disagrees with the adjudicators recommendation. It doesnt think that the loan 
repayments represented a large proportion of Mr Ks monthly  disposable income. 
WDA doesnt think that a credit report represents as full a picture of Mr Ks financial 
circumstances as bank  statements  would. WDA doesnt think that its fair to say that the 
Ref: DRN72951542loans were unaffordable based solely on a credit report. WDA invited Mr K to provide further 
evidence such as bank  statements  so that it could  potentially  reassess  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make checks  to see whether Mr K could 
afford to pay back each loan in a sustainable  way before it lent to him. Those checks  needed 
to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr K was borrowing, how much he had to 
repay, the length  of the agreements and his borrowing history. But there  was no set list of 
checks WDA  had to do.
Even if I dont consider  WDAs checks always went far enough, it doesnt necessarily mean 
that I must go on to uphold his complaint. I would need to be persuaded that with 
proportionate checks, WDA  wouldve  discovered that Mr K couldnt afford  some  or all of the 
loans.
loan one 
Mr K was borrowing £300 and had to repay  just around £362. Even though it was his first 
loan, WDA expected  Mr K to repay more than 40% of his disposable income.   I think a 
proportionate check wouldve  involved  asking  Mr K for details his living  costs  and regular 
credit commitments.
WDA says Mr K told them that his monthly expenses were  £650 but I cant see that this 
included all living  costs and regular credit  commitments. This means I dont think  WDAs 
checks went far enough. 
However, as Mr K hasnt  been able to give us bank statements, I cant say what a 
proportionate check wouldve  shown at the time.  So I dont uphold  Mr Ks complaint about 
loan one.
loan two 
Although this was only Mr Ks second loan, he asked for more  money  after just repaying  loan 
one. I think WDA shouldve had some concerns about whether it knew enough about Mr Ks 
financial situation to agree to lend. 
In addition to asking Mr K about his regular credit  liabilities, I consider it was reasonable to 
expect WDA to ask whether he had any other short term lending commitments. 
I accept what WDA says about the reliability  of credit reports  versus  bank statements. As 
this service is dealing  with a number of Mr Ks complaints about different short term lenders, 
Ive been able to calculate his other liabilities with a good degree of accuracy.  And as I dont 
have any evidence to suggest that WDA asked Mr K for details of his other short term 
lending commitments, I consider its fair to add these to the outgoings WDA did know about.
Ref: DRN72951543Mr K was due to repay at least four other  payday  lenders around £704 in the same  month  
that he was due to repay loan two to WDA. When added to Mr Ks declared expenses  of 
£650, he was left with about £166  of disposable  income. 
With better checks, I think WDA  wouldve  discovered that Mr K couldnt sustainably afford to 
repay loan two.
loans three  to five
I agree  with the adjudicator that by loan three Mr Ks repeated history of borrowing shortly 
after repaying each  earlier loan shouldve alerted WDA to the possibility  that Mr K had 
become reliant  on short term lending.
I think it was proportionate to expect WDA  to try and gather a comprehensive  view of Mr Ks 
finances to make sure that he could afford to repay WDA without borrowing elsewhere.
One of the ways that WDA couldve  tried to verify the information  that Mr K gave, was to ask 
for bank  statements. As we dont have those, I cant say for sure what  WDA wouldve 
discovered. However, as I know about Mr Ks other short term credit commitments, Im 
satisfied that its reasonable to uphold Mr Ks complaint on loans three  to five.
Around the time that Mr K was due to repay loans three and four, he was due to make  
payments to other  short term lenders  totalling more than £1,000 each time. 
By loan five, Mr Ks liabilities to other payday  lenders  had dropped slightly to just under 
£950. Although  Mr K declared his income to be higher for this loan, when I add Mr Ks short  
term lending commitments  to his declared  expenses, he was left with a negative  disposable 
income.
If WDA had discovered the extent of Mr Ks reliance on short term lending, as a responsible  
lender, I dont think it wouldve agreed  to lend. 
As I think  Mr K has lost out, WDA should pay him compensation. I understand that Mr K still 
owes money to WDA.  As hes had the benefit of the money lent, it seems  fair to allow WDA 
to apply the refund to the outstanding principal  balance  if it chooses.
putting things right
To put things right, WDA  should:
Refund any interest and charges Mr K has paid on loans two to five;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid charges and interest on loans two to five; 
If it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  before paying 
any remaining balance (if there is one) to Mr K**; and 
Remove any negative  information about loan two to five from Mr Ks credit file.
Ref: DRN72951544*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr K a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If WDA intends to apply  the 
refund to reduce the outstanding principal balance,  it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps, there remains a balance  still due Id encourage Mr K 
to get in touch  with WDA to discuss how he might repay  this. And Id remind  WDA of the 
need to continue to treat him positively and sympathetically in those  discussions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Curo  Transatlantic Limited trading 
as Wage Day Advance to put things  right by doing  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7295154