K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the advice Aquila Financial Management Limited gave him in 2010  to 
draw a tax free cash  lump sum and buy a temporary annuity with his residual funds.
background
Following advice from Aquila, Mr P transferred his pensions  to a temporary annuity in April 
2010. The total amount transferred was around  £88,000. Mr P took the maximum tax free 
cash lump sum, but did not take any income. At the time Mr P was aged  56.
Mr Ps temporary annuity matured in 2015.  The format of this was that no payments were 
received during the five year period, but a lump  sum was guaranteed at the end of that term. 
Mr P then sought further advice from Aquila regarding his maturity  options in 2015.  That is 
the subject of a separate complaint to this service.
Mr P complained to Aquila in 2017  about the advice he had received in 2010  (and 2015). In 
relation to the 2010 advice, he said that it hadnt  been right for his circumstances as he didn't 
need the tax free cash. And he said that the annuity investments were  too low risk. He felt 
that his previous arrangements had been adequate for his requirements and it had therefore 
not been necessary to transfer them and incur penalties and charges.
Aquila rejected Mr Ps complaint. It said, in summary:
Mr P had confirmed in a number  of emails that he had wanted to take the tax free 
cash in 2010 to help his daughter buy a property;
the only way for Mr P to access his tax free cash while deferring income was to take 
the temporary annuity;
the product  it had recommended  was suitable for Mr Ps requirements and matched 
his risk profile for his pensions at that time;
the maturity values of the product matched the figures Mr P was provided with at the 
outset and so he was aware  of the likely returns when he entered  into the contract.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ps complaint.  He recommended that it should be upheld. But 
Aquila did not accept  the adjudicators view, and so Mr Ps complaint was referred to me for 
a decision.
my provision  decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 13 July 2020.  I said,  in summary:
As our adjudicator had explained, we would normally expect  to see documents  
justifying a firms recommendations, including a fact find, attitude to risk 
questionnaire and suitability report.  Unfortunately, Aquila had not been able to supply 
this information  in relation to the 2010  advice. In the circumstances, I had therefore 
had to reach my decision on the basis of what I considered, on balance, was more  
likely than not to have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN75682332Mr P said that he took the tax free cash lump sum in order  to help his daughter  to buy 
a property. However, he said that this was not needed, and his daughter had 
sufficient savings,  but he gave her the money  because he thought  property would be 
a good investment.
I agreed with our adjudicator that I would expect an advising firm to thoroughly  
understand and discuss  a clients  reasons for wanting TFC before recommending a 
solution. And it should consider  alternatives  and understand the underlying objective.
I had seen from the letter to Mr P from his adviser dated  March 2010 that the adviser  
said:
Having discussed matters with you the principle, as I understand it is that you would 
like to access the tax free cash from your pension arrangements. You do not, 
however, need  any further income  at this stage and probably will not for a good few 
years.
We discussed and you have confirmed that there  is no other realistic way of getting 
hold of the equivalent tax free cash sum of capital  and I understand  you wish to use 
this as a deposit on a house".
I was satisfied from this that Mr P had explained to the adviser that he wanted the 
cash to help his daughter buy a house. And, on balance. I was satisfied that the 
adviser did discuss the alternatives  with Mr P but concluded that there was no other  
realistic option for Mr P to raise the money  that he wanted. Id noted what  Mr P had 
said about ISAs  that he held,  but if Mr P had felt that there  were  other  realistic  
options, I would have expected him to have raised it with the adviser at the time.
But there was a significant  omission with the options set out by Aquila at the time - it 
failed to include the rather more obvious alternative of pension fund withdrawal, 
which would have  enabled Mr P to withdraw tax free cash  from his pension funds and 
leave the remainder invested. After  April 2006,  there was no requirement to withdraw  
an income until the policyholder was ready to do so.
Had this option  been presented to Mr P, I was satisfied that he would have  agreed  to 
it. He could then have retained  his remaining pension funds in investment funds 
suitable for his attitude to risk.
As to the specific issue  of the subsequent investment, I did agree with our adjudicator 
that the recommended investment, which was low risk, was not appropriate for his 
circumstances.
I had not been supplied  with a copy of any assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk 
carried out at the time. But in a later risk profile  completed in 2015  he was classified 
as being 3 from a possible  7 in terms of risk. In 2010, I think  it reasonable to assume  
he would  have  had a higher tolerance to risk given the longer term to retirement. 
Mr P says that he was a medium risk investor, and I agreed on balance that this was 
a reasonable conclusion  to draw.
The temporary annuity represented  a low, albeit guaranteed, return  on Mr Ps 
pension funds. The return on the £18,899  post tax free cash  amount received from 
Skandia, for example,  was 9% over five years - so lower  than 2% simple  pa.
Ref: DRN75682333Aquila had said that, as the product was fairly described to Mr P, he should have said 
at the time that he didnt think that it was suitable  for his attitude to risk. But Mr P had 
approached Aquila  for financial advice, and he was entitled to rely on the advice he 
was given. So this didnt change my decision.
In summary, I thought  that if Mr P had received suitable advice in 2010 he would 
have taken his tax free cash. But I was persuaded that he should have been advised  
to leave the remainder  of his pension funds invested in funds  which were more  
representative of his attitude to investment risk. And I was persuaded that Mr P 
would have taken  this advice.
As Id said, the further complaint relating to the advice given in 2015 when the 
temporary annuity ceased was being dealt with separately. That addressed the 
suitability of the actual situation faced by Mr P in 2015. But my proposed redress  was 
predicated on a conclusion that Mr P may not have needed to transfer to a different 
provider at all in 2010 to achieve  his aims  - and could have remained in the same 
funds, with the same providers, to date. But it also took into account that this might 
not have been possible. If it wasnt possible for Mr P to remain in the same funds in 
pension fund withdrawal, having  taken tax free cash, with the existing providers, hed 
have needed to transfer to a new provider. And Aviva might have offered this type of 
facility in 2010. As far as possible, my proposed redress methodology took these 
various possibilities  into account  accordingly.
Aquila doesnt  agree  with my provisional decision. It says in particular that the low risk 
approach in 2010 and the slightly  more aggressive approach in 2015 was correct and 
reflected Mr Ps attitude and position  at the respective  dates. And it says that in relation  to 
three of Mr Ps funds  it has been  told that it would not have been  possible for him to take 
TFC without taking income.
Mr P has also responded to my provisional decision.  He says that he and his wife had more 
than adequate cash ISAs and should have been encouraged to use them rather than take 
tax free cash.  And he says that the adviser  could also have suggested  that Mr P could have 
left one of his pensions intact to avoid suffering the penalty.
Mr P has also reiterated that he thinks that my redress should take account of the fact that 
his options in 2015 were affected by the advice hed been given in 2010.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  what both Mr P and Aquila have to say but, having done  so, I 
havent been persuaded to change my view. 
I appreciate that Mr P says that he and his wife had more  than adequate cash ISAs  and 
should have been encouraged to use them rather than take tax free cash. But, while it is an 
advisers role to explore all potential options  for raising cash, it seems from the advisers 
letter that he did consider the options.  So I remain of the view that the advice to take TFC 
was not unsuitable.
Ref: DRN75682334Although Aquila says its adviser feels that the advice  given reflected Mr Ps attitude  to risk 
and circumstances  at the time, I dont agree. I remain of the view, on balance,  that Mr Ps 
attitude to the risk at the time was most likely to be slightly  less risk averse  than his recorded 
attitude to risk in 2015. So I remain of the view that Mr P would have been a medium risk 
investor in 2010.
I also note that Aquila  says that, having  made  enquiries, it has found that three of Mr Ps 
previous funds would not have allowed Mr P to have taken  TFC without taking income. But 
Aquila doesnt  appear to have asked  whether  it would have been possible for Mr P to 
transfer his funds to another product with the same insurer, or if that wasnt  possible to 
achieve pension  fund withdrawal, then a transfer  to a different provider which offered that 
facility. And, in any event,  my provisional decision takes account of the fact that Mr P may 
have had to transfer his funds. So again, this doesnt change my decision. 
Finally, as set out in my provisional decision,  I confirm that my redress  below does take 
account of what  has happened with Mr Ps pensions to date.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have acted differently. As Ive said above, its possible that 
Mr Ps existing  providers might have offered the option of taking tax free cash and leaving  
the remaining  funds  invested. Its also possible that transfer penalties wouldnt have applied  
if he remained with the same providers.
So Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  Aquila do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Aquila must:
Establish whether  it was possible for Mr P to withdraw the tax free cash  from his 
existing policies and remain invested  with same  provider and in the same funds as 
before, even if this meant transferring internally to a different type of policy.
If it is possible, Aquila  should also establish,  as at the date of my final decision,  what 
Mr Ps post tax free cash residual funds  would have been worth,  had those funds 
remained invested to that date.
If it isnt possible with a particular provider, and Mr P would have  needed to transfer  
to a new provider  (for example  Aviva), its nevertheless uncertain into what  funds he 
would then have  invested. And so Aquila should  apply the investment return  using  
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index as a benchmark to the 
transferred post tax free cash  sum from the date of buying  the temporary annuity to 
the date of my final decision.
Mr P reinvested the return  he received from the temporary annuity   he transferred  
the residual funds to a policy with Aviva for further  reinvestment  in 2015. The value of 
the Aviva  plan, as at the date of any final decision, along with any further withdrawals 
Ref: DRN75682335(at the time those withdrawals occurred,  or totalled and deducted at the end if 
preferred), may then be deducted from the notional values established above. 
The resulting  sum (if positive) is the loss which Mr P will have suffered due to Aquilas 
advice.
If there is a loss, Aquila should pay into Mr P's current  pension  plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If Aquila is unable to pay the total amount into Mr P's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. Ive assumed  that Mr P 
would be a basic rate tax payer in retirement, and so a deduction  of 20% is 
appropriate here.
Pay to Mr P £100 for the worry and upset  caused by the unsuitable advice.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ps circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Aquila Financial Management Limited  to 
pay Mr P fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Alison Cribbs
Ref: DRN75682336Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7568233