K822xcomplaint
The estate  of Mrs H, represented by Mr B, complains Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) 
have failed to pay them money was due to the estate and made administrative errors when 
communicating with the estate.
background 
Mr B is the sole personal representative of Mrs H acting under a Grant of Letters of 
Administration issued  on 26 June 2012.  Mr B brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy 
with Barclays response to his request to close the account of the late Mrs H. He said this 
had been ongoing for a number of years and Barclays  had failed to act on documents hed 
sent them at the start of 2019 to action this.
In his first view our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything  wrong.  He said at 
that point he couldnt agree Barclays had received the documentation and then refused to 
release the funds to Mr B or caused  any delays  in the process. So he thought  Barclays had 
treated Mr B fairly and had listed what they needed  from Mr B in order to close  the account 
and pay the funds to him as the personal representative. On Mr Bs point about Barclays 
wrongfully deducting  tax from the account, the investigator said it was a legal requirement for 
banks to deduct tax from interest bearing accounts prior to April 2016, in line with
UK tax laws. So, he didnt agree that Barclays has done anything wrong in respect of those  
deductions.
Mr B didnt agree. He thought the findings were  deliberately falsified and the facts  the 
investigator had stated were incorrect. Mr B thought  the investigator was biased in the 
handling of his complaint  as hed accepted the word  of Barclays over his. And that the 
investigator had repeatedly stated on behalf  of Barclays that no form was sent to them in 
January 2019  when  it was witnessed as sent and a copy had been enclosed. He also 
thought since  the bank  account was frozen no tax was collectable  so the tax explanation 
given by the investigator didnt apply.
The case  was allocated  to me for a final decision.  I required more information before I made 
a final decision.  Mr B provided me with a full copy of the Bereavement  Closure  Form (BCF) 
and the verified  signature and passport - sent with his letter  of 8 February 2019 to Barclays  
as Id asked. I asked Barclays comment on my observation  that their letter of 19 February 
2019 satisfied  me theyd  received Mr Bs documents and it seemed  to me Mr B was now 
being inconvenienced by their request to send these again. I also asked them  to detail what  
searches theyd made for the Documents in question and to clarify their requirements for any 
ID documents.
Barclays response to this enquiry was to say they were happy to say the documents  may 
have been received and they were  prepared to accept the copies  of the BCF and ID 
documents which Mr B had recently  sent to this service. They confirmed the balance  on Mrs 
Hs account was £5704.64 (being the balance of the dormant account which includes 
£321.32 interest) and said in order to make the payment they still needed bank details  of the 
account Mr B as personal representative wanted  the payment  made  to. They  also offered to 
pay £100 compensation and 8% interest  on the money in the account from the point Mr B 
shouldve received the funds.
Our investigator issued  a further view in which he said it was fair to say Mr B wrote to 
Barclays in February 2019, requesting the release  of the funds. But, due to some internal 
Ref: DRN70364462administration errors  by Barclays, the funds were not released as significant documents  may 
have been mis-placed. He thought the offer Barclays had made  to pay 8% compensation 
interest on the balance  of £5704.64 from the 19 February 2019 (which is around  the date he 
thought Mr B would  have  received the balance)  up to the point of settlement was fair. He 
also thought the offer to pay Mr B £100  compensation  for the inconvenience  was fair.
.
Mr B didnt agree. He rejected  the offer of compensation from 2019, which he considered 
paltry, as his attempts  to obtain monies  had been  frustrated  by Barclays from many  years 
earlier. He thought the policy of banks giving away estate monies even after probate claims 
had been established and of them  stealing from the dead required a formal  investigation into 
their conduct  in relation to his complaint and many  others.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im very sorry to learn of the bereavement 
Mr B has suffered. I appreciate the time since Mrs Hs passing will have been difficult for 
him. I know Mr B has expressed the view that our investigator is biased  and has sided with 
Barclays. I want to stress Ive looked at everything afresh  before  reaching an independent 
view. 
Its clear Mr B has strong feelings about this complaint. Hes provided  detailed submissions in 
support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  However, I 
trust that Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I consider to be the 
central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised, but to set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them.
Firstly I want to be clear  that in this decision Im dealing solely with Mr Bs complaint against 
Barclays in respect of the estate of Mrs H only. In light of Mr Bs comments  in his email  of 15 
November 2019  I also want to clarify this is my first and final decision in this case. Theres 
been no previous  decision  by me unsigned  or otherwise. 
I can see Mr B feels strongly about  the deductions made from this account for income tax. 
But Im afraid I agree  entirely with what the investigator has said on this point.  As the 
investigator has identified,  Barclays are responsible for deducting income  tax at source from 
such accounts. So making those deductions  is what wed expect them  to do. If, as a result of 
those deductions  the estate has paid more income tax than its liable for thats something Mr 
B as personal representative can deal with by filing the appropriate income  tax returns  for 
the estate with HMRC.
Barclay now accepts there have been some  internal administrative errors at their end and 
they may have had Mr Bs documents. Theyve  agreed to accept the copy documents  Mr B 
sent us and offered to pay 8% interest - from 19 February 2019 being  the date they returned 
the original documents to Mr B  on the funds  due to the estate. So its now for me to decide  
if the corrective action  theyve proposed and amount of compensation theyve offered the 
personal representative is fair and reasonable. Broadly, I think  it is and Ill explain why.
Barclays letter of 19 February  2019 satisfies me theyd  received Mr Bs documents,  which, 
on balance, I thought were those hed itemised  in his letter of 8 February 2019. So I think its 
reasonable for Barclays to accept copies of those documents  from this service rather  than 
inconvenience Mr B to send them again.
Ref: DRN70364463Barclays have agreed to make payment of the funds in the account  to the estate along with 
8% interest from 19 February 2019,  which is when they returned the original documents  to 
Mr B. I know Mr B obtained the grant  much  earlier in 2012. But I havent  seen  anything  to 
satisfy me Mr B sent the completed forms to Barclays any earlier than 8 February 2019. So I 
think thats the earliest point at which the estate couldve received the funds. As Barclays  
now agree  to pay interest at 8 % on the funds  due to the estate form 19 February  2019.  I 
cant see theres been any financial loss to the estate.
Im sure Mr B has suffered some upset  and inconvenience along the way and for that Im 
sorry. But, any award of compensation I make can only take into account the losses, distress  
and/or inconvenience suffered by the actual consumer. In this case thats  the late Mrs H not 
her representatives. 
Its generally accepted  that an estate isnt able to experience the trouble and upset which  an 
individual can. So I wouldnt ordinarily  award compensation for the banks actions. But, that 
said, Barclays have awarded £100  compensation here and as far as Im aware  that offer still 
stands. I cant see the personal representative  has incurred any further  expenses. So, 
overall, I think the payment of interest at 8% on the account balance  from 19 February 2019 
along with the offer of £100 compensation is a fair and reasonable response to this 
complaint. So I dont require Barclays to take any further action and will leave it to Mr B to 
decide whether  to accept this offer and to provide the necessary bank details  to Barclays  to 
enable them to now make  this payment.
my final decision
My final decision is Barclays Bank UK PLC have made a reasonable offer to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7036446