K820x#14complaint
Mr Y says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by post in 1999. The policy  was taken  out at 
the same  time as Mr Y applied for a credit  card.  It gave him accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr Y disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Y accepts  it was clear the PPI was optional. And I can see from his application 
form he ticked a box indicating he wanted to take the cover.  The options to select or 
decline PPI were  set out with equal  prominence. So, Im satisfied the bank made  it 
clear to Mr Y that he had a choice about PPI and he agreed to take it out.  
Mr Y asks why the adjudicator concluded  Capital One didnt recommend PPI. The 
sale was by post, without any direct  contact with the bank.  Ive seen no evidence  that 
Capital One looked  at Mr Ys individual circumstances  and made a recommendation 
on that basis. This means it wasnt an advised sale, so Capital One didnt have to 
check if the policy was suitable.  It was up to Mr Y to decide whether the policy  was 
right for him bearing in mind his ability to make  his credit  card repayments  if he was 
unable to work or lost his job. 
It did however have to give him enough  clear  information so he could make an 
informed decision.  I agree  its possible  Capital  One didnt do this. But 
Mr Y chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have  wanted this type of cover. 
He wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mr Y hasnt been able to give us 
much information about his circumstances at the time, which isnt unreasonable  
given how long ago the sale was. So based  on the available  evidence,  I cant  fairly 
conclude Mr Y wouldve  made a different decision if better information had been  
provided. 
It follows that I dont think Mr Y has lost out because of any problems with this sale. Mr Y 
raises that he has had other PPI mis-sale complaints upheld  without providing information on 
his circumstances,  but I can only comment here on the merits of this complaint. The 
outcome of every mis-sale complaint will vary based  on a number of factors including, but 
Ref: DRN70119552not limited to, the credit product; how and when the PPI was sold;  the policy  terms; the value 
it provided; and the customers  circumstances.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7011955