K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has been unable  to trace their account 
and pay them the money they say was in it.
background
Mr and Mrs R say they recently re- discovered a Barclays passbook which showed a 
balance of just over £92 in 1975. They say they didnt  close  the account or transfer the 
money out of it and so Barclays must  still have  their money. Mr and Mrs R would like their 
money returned and for Barclays to pay interest on the balance.
Barclays says its checked its records and cant find an open account  for Mr and Mrs R and 
says it has no trace of the account  being  made  dormant. It says if the account was still open 
it would  have sent account statements but due to the passage of time can no longer say 
what happened to the account or money.
Mr and Mrs R brought  their complaint to us but our investigator didnt think Barclays had 
acted unfairly or made a mistake.  The investigator thought Barclays  had carried out all 
reasonable checks but there was no trace of the account. The investigator also thought it 
likely that the account  had been closed and the money withdrawn and that such a 
transaction may not have  been recorded in the passbook.
Mr and Mrs R dont accept that view and say the account wasnt  closed  or the money 
withdrawn.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs R will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Barclays has done  everything it can to trace  this account using Mr and Mrs 
Rs details. I have seen  evidence of those searches and that there isnt a trace of the 
account. And I have  not seen any evidence that Barclays  has made an error  here or that the 
account is still open. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R have a copy of the passbook which was 
last used in 1975. But I think that banks and building societies will allow  transactions  on 
accounts without  a passbook being present.  And I can see that Mr and Mrs R have recently  
rediscovered the passbook which may have  been  lost up to 44 years  ago. So I think it 
possible that Barclays would have allowed a withdrawal without that lost passbook.
If the account was still open or had been made dormant  then I would have expected to have 
seen a record of that on Barclays records. But there is no trace so I think on balance  its 
more likely that the account  was closed over the last 44 years  or so and that Mr and Mrs R 
received their money.  I dont think Barclays could reasonably have  been  expected  to have 
kept details of transactions going  back up to 44 years ago.
So overall I dont  think Barclays has made  a mistake  or acted unfairly here. And it follows  
that I cant fairly order it to pay Mr and Mrs R the balance that was in the account  in 1975 or 
any interest.
Ref: DRN73189402my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7318940