K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner 
Finance (BPF) incorrectly recorded  a default  on her credit file and delayed dealing  with her 
complaint.
 
background
Mrs S entered into a finance agreement with BPF in 2007 for the purchase of a car. At the 
end of the agreement in early 2011  Mrs S needed to make  a balloon payment  of £3775.23. 
Mrs S wasnt  able to make the balloon payment and a repayment  arrangement  was agreed 
to repay  the outstanding balance. In December 2018 BPF placed a default on Mrs Ss credit  
file. Mrs S complained on the 15 December 2018  and in its final response  letter  dated  
5 March 2019 BPF agreed that it had not dealt with Mrs Ss complaint properly. It agreed to 
backdate the default  to May 2011  which had the effect of removing it from Mrs Ss credit  file 
as it was now over 6 years old. In addition it agreed that it had not responded quickly  enough  
to Mrs Ss concerns and sent her a cheque for £250.  It also removed charges of £217.50 
from Mrs Ss outstanding balance as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs S didnt think that was enough and brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered  the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld.  He thought 
that BPF had done enough to rectify  the error  and compensate Mrs S for the trouble  and 
upset caused.  Mrs S didnt agree and said in summary that BPF had delayed in sending  the 
cheque to her, had failed to respond  until this service became involved and this had caused 
her significant stress.  
Our investigator acknowledged  these concerns but still considered that BPFs offer was fair 
and reasonable so Mrs S asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that BPF incorrectly reported  a default in December 2018. It seems that up 
until this point no default had been  recorded and because of a change in the relevant rules 
BPF incorrectly started reporting  a default.  
Mrs S complained about this straightaway  and it took until 5 March 2019 for BPF to 
adequately respond and take steps to put matters  right. 
BPF recognised that it had delayed and sent Mrs S a cheque for £250 and reduced  her 
outstanding balance by £217.50.  It also notified  the credit  reference agencies about the 
correct date for the default.
I can appreciate that during the time that the default  was showing on Mrs Ss credit  file this 
was upsetting and stressful for her. I also agree  that the time taken to deal with Mrs Ss 
complaint and remove the default  was too long. But I think that the cheque for £250 and the 
reduction of the charges is fair and reasonable to reflect  the trouble and upset caused.
I appreciate that Mrs S doesnt  think the business has done  enough  and she feels  it has 
been difficult to make progress without the intervention of this service.  But I think  that once 
Ref: DRN75619432the complaint  was escalated and considered on 5 March the business did enough to put 
matters right. This service does not punish  businesses for mistakes and so I can only 
consider what is fair and reasonable.
Mrs S says the cheque  was late getting  to her but it was sent and cashed within a few weeks  
of the letter  of 5 March.  The credit  file has now been  amended and it no longer reflects any 
default.  
In the circumstances I think BPF has acted fairly and I cant ask BPF to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7561943