K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 in respect of a holiday.
Background
Mr P booked an overseas  villa for a family holiday  with a company  I will call A for the period 
from 30 July to 11 August  2018. He paid almost  £6,000 most of which  was put on his 
Lloydss credit card. Mr P says there were several  problems  with the villa. He says it suffered 
frequent power cuts, the air conditioning didnt work properly, the appliances were old and 
faulty, there  were pests inside and the villa was dirty on arrival. 
They left early and the host refunded one days worth of rent. He had several exchanges 
with the host and with A, but the remedial  action wasnt sufficient to satisfy  Mr P and his 
family. 
He made  a claim under S 75, but this was rejected by Lloyds. It said that the legislation  
required there to be a link between the debtor (Mr P), the creditor  (Lloyds) and the supplier, 
which it believed was the villa owner. The payment had been  made  to A as an intermediary 
and so it concluded the link was broken and the claim wasnt valid.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  agree  that the d-c-s link had been broken.  However,  she wasnt  
persuaded that there was either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
She agreed  that A didnt  provide the accommodation, but noted it did make a charge for the 
service it provided which exceeded the £100 limit for S 75 claims. The terms and conditions  
explain that a guest will receive a total refund of fees if they suffer  a travel  issue. She 
concluded that the valid d-c-s link for the service  fee included the ability to make use of the 
guest refund policy and as such  she didnt  believe Lloyds  was right to deny his claim on the 
basis of a broken  d-c-s link. 
Lloyds accepted this, but argued that no breach of contract or misrepresentation had been  
established. Our investigator noted  that to make a valid claim under the Guest  Refund  
Policy, the terms say that you must  report the Travel issue to us in writing or via telephone 
within 24 hours of discovering  the existence  of the Travel issue, and you must provide us 
with information  (including photographs, videos, or other written or tangible evidence) about 
the accommodation and the circumstances of the travel issue.
She said Mr P didnt report the issues to A until the eighth day, although he had tried to 
resolve matters with the host. She thought that meant Mr P wasnt able to make  use of the 
Guest Refund policy and so she didnt  think he had a valid S 75 claim. She accepted  that he 
hadnt received  a meaningful response  from A within  24 hours,  but by that point he had 
decided to leave  the property and he was unlikely to have been  affected  by any delay. 
Finally, she referred to Mr Ps claim that he had been given a verbal offer by the host of 
three days refund,  but this hadnt  been paid. She said that there  was no evidence  for this 
and in any event  she wasnt  considering  the actions of the host.
Mr P didnt agree and asked that his complaint  be considered by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN75719552My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
A acts as an intermediary and the supplier of the accommodation was the host. This means  
the d-c-s link is broken save for the service  fee charged by A. In that regard it acted as a 
supplier of the service  of connecting Mr P with the host. As such its fee for doing so is 
covered by S75.
However, its Guest Refund  Policy, which is part of the service  it offers,  states that a refund of 
fees can be made for a travel issue. This is defined as including  a guest  not being  given 
access to a property,  a materially inaccurate  description of the property,  special features in 
the listing not working such as kitchen appliances  and air conditioning systems, the location 
of the property, unclean or unsanitary accommodation and vermin  or pests in the 
accommodation.
This covers the issues raised by Mr P and it brings these within the ambit  of S7, albeit by 
means of a circuitous  route. But to get to this point one has to take into account the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ps arrangement with A. It is reasonable to conclude that one cannot 
cherry pick the parts of the terms and conditions which allow the claim without taking into 
account those  others  which place restrictions on it. This means we have  to consider the 
section which requires  the customer to notify  of the travel issue within  24 hours  of it arising.
Mr P and his family encountered the issues that form the foundation of his complaint at the 
beginning of the holiday and in the following days. However, he didnt contact A until some 
eight days had passed. Under  the contract  Mr P had with A it agreed to consider  a refund if it 
was informed in writing or via telephone within 24 hours  of the travel issue  being  discovered. 
By the time he did contact A he and his family had decided to leave. In effect, it was too late 
for A to take any meaningful action and certainly too late for any refund to be claimed.
This means  that I can only conclude that A has adhered to the contract and there  was no 
breach. I cannot see any misrepresentation  by A either and so I can see no valid basis for a 
claim under S75.
For the sake of completeness I would add that I dont  consider Mr P has provided sufficient 
evidence to show that the property was not of an acceptable standard.  I appreciate  he feels  
strongly about the matter, but I regret to say I am unable  to uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN75719553My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
1 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7571955