K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  declined  a claim under his home insurance 
policy.
background
Mr T has an insurance policy  with UKI which covers  buildings and contents, amongst other 
things.
Sadly, in December 2015 there was a fire at Mr Ts home which caused substantial  damage. 
Mr T made a claim under his policy, which UKI then declined.
UKI said the policy required Mr T to provide them with any information  and evidence  relevant 
to the claim. And they said he hadnt done  so.
UKI also drew Mr Ts attention to a number  of other  conditions and exclusions set out in the 
policy. However, they didnt specifically say at the time whether  or not these would apply in 
Mr Ts case. 
Mr T complained to UKI and when they didnt change their position, he complained  to us. 
UKI said they wanted to interview Mr T and obtain  certain information about  the 
circumstances of the fire and hadnt  been  able to do so. They  also wanted disclosure from 
Mr T of any criminal convictions  he might have.
We concluded our investigation when Mr T agreed  to provide the information UKI had 
requested  and to be interviewed by them.
Mr T made a further complaint when  UKI maintained their decision to decline his claim after 
hed been interviewed and provided  details of his criminal convictions.
Our investigator looked into it and thought UKI were  wrong to decline the claim on the basis  
theyd set out  which  was that Mr T still hadnt  provided them  with the information or 
evidence they required.
UKI disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we dealt with the previous complaint, UKI were  fairly clear about what they wanted 
from Mr T if they were to re-consider his claim.  They wanted to interview him and to see a 
report to show his criminal convictions.
Mr T has provided  the latter. He has a criminal  conviction which UKI appear to think isnt 
relevant in terms of their consideration of his claim. So that requirement  has been satisfied.
Ref: DRN71756342Mr T has also been interviewed by UKIs agents. He says he gave them  any information they 
requested which he was able to give. He says he was suffering from mental health problems 
at the time of the fire and his memory is not clear  about all of the details.  
UKI say they want certain information in order to re-consider the claim and Mr T still hasnt 
provided it. They say hes given seemingly contradictory statements in the past about the 
circumstances of the fire and he was unable to clarify matters for them at the interview. 
They say they also asked him for names and/or contact details for other individuals  who 
might be able to shed light on the circumstances  surrounding the fire. And he didnt  provide  
them. UKI think Mr T would be able to provide some or all of that information if he wished.
Mr T has provided  medical information which suggests he is suffering  from mental  health 
problems. UKI say that all dates  from after the fire. Whilst  that may be the case, I think the 
problems outlined in the medical reports arent  the kinds of things which  spring up overnight. 
Medical experts are saying Mr T was suffering from very serious  mental health problems 
soon after the fire. It would be unusual if these problems hadnt manifested themselves in 
some form before Mr Ts first attempt to seek medical help. Mr T also says he was taking 
medication at the time of the fire - and had been  drinking  that evening.
With insurance claims, we take the view that its for the customer  to establish that they have 
suffered a loss. Mr T has done that  no-one  disputes that his house was substantially  
damaged in the fire.
Its for the insurer to demonstrate that a policy exclusion or condition  applies which  means 
they can decline the claim.
In this case, UKI would  need to show that Mr T had information relevant to his claim which  
he was choosing not to disclose to them. In that case the policy  condition theyve used to 
decline his claim  that hes required to provide them with information  or evidence  would 
apply.
On balance, I dont  think UKI have  done  that. I bear in mind  Mr Ts mental health problems 
and the likelihood they persisted at the time of the fire. These problems  and the fact Mr Ts 
first language isnt English  may also explain at least some  of the contradictions  in the 
statements hes provided so far.
So, Im satisfied UKI shouldnt decline Mr Ts claim on the basis  of the particular policy 
condition they cite in their response to Mr T. And I think  they should re-consider the claim in 
line with the remaining terms  and conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN71756343my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
U K Insurance Limited cant decline Mr Ts claim on the basis  that he hasnt provided 
information or evidence relevant to the claim.
They should  now consider Mr Ts claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
Mr Ts policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7175634