K820x#14Complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the way she was treated by Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMS). 
She says she was pressured into entering a repayment plan when she couldnt afford the 
payments. As a result  she says shes suffered stress and inconvenience.  
Ms D is being represented by her partner on this complaint.
Background
Ms D fell into arrears on her Next catalogue account. Her debt was passed to DMS. In 
September 2018, Ms D was asked to complete a financial  statement providing details of her 
income and expenditure. This was so that she and DMS could agree a plan to repay the 
outstanding balance. 
Ms D called DMS on 7 November 2018 to complete an updated  income and expenditure 
statement. At the end of the conversation the adviser rejected Ms Ds offer to repay  £50 a 
month and said Ms D would need to pay £150 a month. The adviser said this was because 
she felt some of Ms Ds expenditure could be reduced,  especially in relation to her 
daughters equestrian course costs. Ms D said she couldnt afford to pay £150 a month.
Later that day Ms Ds partner called DMS. He explained Ms D was very distressed by her 
earlier conversation  and he then provided  further  details about  her circumstances and 
expenditure. The adviser asked some more questions about Ms Ds expenses  for her 
daughters equestrian fees. Having had the further information, both DMS and Ms D then 
agreed to a reduced repayment amount of £80 per month. 
Ms D raised a complaint. She said DMS staff members were rude and unprofessional, and 
forced her into an unaffordable repayment  plan. 
DMS responded to the complaint and said at certain  points, Ms Ds first call wasnt handled 
as well as it could have  been by the adviser and so it apologised. It said however that Ms D 
confirmed she received financial help from her daughters  father and based on that first 
telephone call, it seemed some of her expenditure could  have been  reduced.  So the adviser 
felt £150 was a reasonable  monthly repayment  figure. But after the second telephone call, 
where Ms Ds partner provided  the additional information, DMS agreed  to a monthly 
repayment figure of £80 which DMS  accepted  was reasonable.
The complaint was referred  to our service and our investigator didnt uphold  it. He said DMS 
acted reasonably in asking  Ms D to pay £150  a month based on the information  given  in that 
first call. He thought  DMS acted fairly  in agreeing to a reduced monthly payment of £80 once 
Ms Ds partner explained what the costs  in the income and expenditure form related to.
In her response to the investigators opinion Ms D added that legal action  (including  a county 
court judgement (CCJ)  and a charging  order)  continued after a repayment  plan was agreed. 
As a result Ms D suffered  stress and anxiety.  Our investigator looked into this additional 
point, and said the CCJ and charging order were obtained before Ms Ds discussions with 
DMS in November 2018.
Ms D didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to make a final 
decision, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
Ref: DRN77874422My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I need to decide if DMS  treated Ms D fairly  when she first called to set up a repayment plan. 
I also need to decide if DMS took legal action against Ms D after the repayment  plan was 
agreed.
Calls on 7 November 2018
Ive listened to Ms Ds first call on 7 November. In this call the adviser went  through Ms Ds 
income and expenditure and concluded  that DMS wouldnt accept repayment of less than 
£150 a month.  I agree  it was a difficult call for Ms D as she was asked a lot of questions 
about her financial  position. The adviser also challenged Ms D about  information she gave 
that was at odds  with what shed previously provided. She went  through all of Ms Ds 
expenditure with her and specifically about  how much she was spending in relation to her 
daughters equestrian course. So while the conversation was challenging, I think it was 
important for DMS to get an accurate  picture  of Ms Ds income  and expenditure in order  to 
decide what she could  afford to pay each  month  to pay her debt off. Given  the information 
the adviser had, and the fact Ms D said her daughters father  supported her, I dont think  
DMS acted unreasonably in deciding how much  she could afford to repay a month.  
I appreciate the call caused  Ms D stress and anxiety until her partner provided more  
information later that same day. But Im satisfied DMS  relied  on the information provided 
Ms D and didnt intend to force her into an unaffordable repayment  plan. Im also satisfied 
that DMS agreed to a lower monthly  repayment when Ms Ds partner provided more 
information about her daughters course. 
DMS has accepted  the call wasnt handled  as well as it could have been and apologised to 
Ms D. Having listened to the call, I agree. I do appreciate though  the nature of the call and 
discussing personal financial  circumstances  wasnt  easy for Ms D  and thats clearly  
reflected in the call. But Im not persuaded DMS treated Ms D unfairly and I dont think  she 
was pressured  into entering a repayment plan which she couldnt afford.
CCJ and charging  order
Ms D raised the point  about DMS telling her no further action would be taken once the 
repayment plan was agreed. This wasnt part of the initial complaint to DMS but for 
completeness, Ive considered this here. I cant see DMS took legal action after the 
repayment plan was agreed in November 2018.  A letter of claim was sent to Ms D on 
9 May 2018  giving her 30 days to respond. As Ms D didnt reply, proceedings were then 
issued and a CCJ obtained in July 2018. An interim charging order was obtained in August 
2018, which I understand Ms D disputed. So the CCJ and interim  charging order were  all in 
place prior to the repayment discussions that took place in November 2018. In both Ms Ds 
call and her partners call on 7 November  2018  the advisers referred to the CCJ and 
charging order. 
Conclusion
In summary,  while I appreciate the call on 7 November 2018  could have been  better  
handled, overall Im satisfied DMS didnt do anything wrong in trying to reach a suitable 
repayment plan.  And once it had further  information,  it accepted  the new reduced  monthly  
plan which  both parties were agreeable to. Im also satisfied the CCJ and charging order 
Ref: DRN77874423were in place before  the discussions with DMS about a repayment  plan and I dont agree 
DMS has provided incorrect  information.  DMS doesnt need to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint against  Debt  Managers 
(Services) Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7787442