K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that his home insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited, has increased the price 
of his cover  each year at renewal.
background
Mr J arranged cover with Aviva in 2014.  In 2015  Mr J was sent renewal documents but didnt 
get them. The premium  increased and when  Mr J noticed the extra  cost coming  out of his 
bank account  he complained. Aviva  accepted that he hadnt  receive  the renewal documents 
and agreed to match the previous years  price.
In 2016, 2017 and 2018 the premium  price went up. Mr J didnt read the documents  he was 
sent at renewal which advised of the increase. When  Mr J noticed the extra costs he 
complained. He didnt think it was right for insurers, in general, to be able to increase prices 
year on year like this. Mr J said this needed to be changed and he wanted Aviva  to return to 
him all premiums paid over and above the price  set when the cover was agreed in 2014.
Aviva wasnt  minded to make any refund. It said it had sent documents  at each renewal and 
as Mr J had continued  with the cover  it had presumed in good faith that hed accepted the 
terms offered. Mr J complained to this service. During correspondence Aviva  explained to us 
that Mr Js yearly price had risen as his initial new customer discount had diminished each 
year in line with its usual practice. 
Mr J raised a number of concerns during the course  of his correspondence  with us. They 
can be summarised as follows;
given the service hed received (at that time he had an unresolved claim), it was clear to 
him the policy wasnt worth the cost; 
this practice utilised by insurers needed  stopping;
Aviva  had accepted  before that it had overcharged him;
insurers shouldnt be able to change prices by issuing a renewal letter, they should  have  
to call or email each customer;
he shouldve been told at the outset  that the price offered  at that time was based on a 
discount which would diminish each year;
he should be and should have been  told what the actual price  of cover is/was;
it isnt fair not to know the true price before purchasing;
as Aviva wasnt clear about all of this, and in fact had hidden  if from him, it had created a 
misleading omission which meant the policy had been mis-sold.
Our investigator answered  Mr Js concerns but he remained  unhappy.  The complaint was 
passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that when  Mr J first complained to us he was somewhat frustrated at the service 
hed been receiving at that time regarding  a claim hed made. Having difficulty  with claims is 
frustrating but doesnt  usually mean the policy  is worthless.  I know Mr Js policy  is branded  
meaning it isnt sold under  Avivas name and payments dont go direct to Aviva. But Aviva, 
Ref: DRN78499692as the policy  underwriter,  sets the premium  and is responsible for claims. The brand name  
company administers the policy and carries  out some work  on behalf of Aviva.  That isnt 
uncommon.
This service wont usually seek to make  judgements  on the way an insurer assesses risk 
and the price it charges for covering  that risk. Insurance is a competitive market and all 
insurers view risk differently. Which means  there  isnt a set pricing scheme that we think  is 
fair for policyholders to be charged and we wouldnt normally comment on the fairness  or 
otherwise of the premium the insurer has chosen  to set. What  is important to us is to know 
that an insurer has treated its customer fairly  and it does that by treating its customers the 
same, not singling  any individual  or group out. 
I understand that Mr J is frustrated by his policy price increasing. But it is quite  common  for 
prices to rise a little each year. And home insurance  is based on yearly  contracts  so 
neither party  has to continue with cover  in the second, third, fourth  or any year after the initial  
contract is agreed. Likewise an insurer isnt bound to keep offering cover  on the same terms 
year after year, or to continue with any previously  organised discounts or reductions.  
I can see that Aviva accepted in 2015  that it hadnt  clearly communicated  the renewal terms 
for that year to Mr J. As a result it revised what it was charging him. That doesnt mean it 
was bound to keep charging  that reduced rate for ever after that. At the next renewal Mr J 
was sent the necessary paperwork and he had the chance to read it. If he didnt understand 
the nature  of the yearly  contract and/or chose not to read the paperwork because  he didnt 
have time,  that wasnt Avivas fault.
It is quite normal for formal contract  documents to be sent by post. It is becoming more 
common now for electronic data to be provided.  But that doesnt mean that sending  
documents by post is unfair  or unreasonable. And I wouldnt  think  it was reasonable to say 
that an insurer should call each of its customers at every renewal. That simply wouldnt be 
workable in practice. 
I appreciate that Mr J might want to know if the price  of his cover  is going to change  in the 
future but, going  back to the fact of insurance being  based on yearly  contracts, Im not 
persuaded an insurer could be reasonably expected to advise what  might  happen in future 
years at the outset of a stand-alone contract  that will only last for one year. And how much 
Aviva chooses to discount its normal prices by in order  to obtain new customers is a matter  
for it. So I cant share any pricing data with Mr J; it is commercially sensitive data and, 
therefore, confidential. 
When Mr J arranged the cover he was asked questions to make sure that a) he met Avivas  
underwriting criteria and b) the policy met his needs.  Aviva was clear  with Mr J about the 
terms of the contract  it was offering, including the price. The price  and the other terms seem 
to have suited  Mr J. Ive not seen  anything that makes me think if hed made  a claim Aviva 
wouldnt have settled  it for some reason related to how the policy was sold and what was 
offered at that time.  And it didnt omit to tell him anything about  that contract  the part of the 
insurance price it had chosen  not to charge him was a matter for it alone.  And what  it was 
going to charge for the policy the next year was relevant  to next years contract  should the 
parties decide to go ahead. Im satisfied  that this policy wasnt  mis-sold by Aviva.
I know Mr J feels  very strongly about this issue and that he wants  to change the current  
position. We arent a regulator and cant take that type of action.  Ive considered  here the 
complaint Mr J has made about Aviva, and Im satisfied that Aviva didnt fail Mr J.
Ref: DRN78499693 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Aviva  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr J to accept or reject 
my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849969