K821x#15complaint
Ms K has complained about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Ms K is represented by her father who has made  most of the representations on her behalf. 
But, for ease, I will refer to all of her fathers  comments and actions as being  those  of Ms K.
background
Ms K was involved in a minor incident  in July 2018.  She said the front left side of her car 
touched the rear of a car in front of her at very slow speed. Ms Ks car didnt suffer any 
damage. Ms K took some photos at the scene  immediately  after the incident. And she took 
some more photos of the other  car the following day.
The driver of the other car said her rear bumper was damaged, so she claimed  against  
Ms Ks policy. Ms K disputed that she caused  the damage and said the other  cars damage  
must have  been  pre-existing. Admiral asked an independent assessor to examine both cars 
to see if the damage  to the other car was consistent  with the incident as described. The 
assessor, having examined both cars,  prepared  a report  in which  he concluded the damage  
to the other car was caused during the incident.  Admiral paid the other  drivers  claim and 
recorded the incident against Ms K as being her fault. 
Ms K didnt agree with Admirals decision. She sent Admiral several  photos  and a number of 
detailed questions challenging the assessors report. She wanted the assessor  to answer  
those questions. But, as her questions werent answered, she complained.  Admiral  accepted  
that there  were some mistakes in the assessors report, namely the information  he gave 
about the cars steering,  brakes and tyre tread. But they said the decision to accept that    
Ms Ks car had caused the damage  was correct. Ms K didnt think  that was fair, so she 
brought her complaint  to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into it. He felt that Admiral hadnt treated Ms K fairly because  
the concerns she raised about  the assessors findings were valid and that Admiral  failed to 
adequately address them. Our adjudicator recommended that Admiral: should  appoint a 
different independent  assessor to review  all the evidence and decide  whether or not the 
damage was caused by the incident involving  Ms K. If the new assessor  reached the same  
conclusion as the previous one then Admiral  wouldnt  have to do anything else. If, however,  
the new assessor found that the damage was not consistent with the incident,  Admiral 
should: reinstate  Ms Ks no claims bonus (NCB); change the liability outcome of the claim to 
notification only on all internal and external databases including  the Claims and Underwriting  
Exchange (CUE); and pay Ms K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. As Admiral didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
There is no doubt that the incident was Ms Ks fault because  she accepted that her car came 
into contact with the car in front of her. Ms K should have kept sufficient distance  between 
the two cars to avoid that happening. But the issue in this complaint is whether or not Ms K 
Ref: DRN72744962caused the damage as claimed  by the other driver. She said she didnt. Admiral rely on the 
report prepared by the assessor  they asked to examine the cars. Admiral have also said that 
an in-house engineer  reviewed the assessors  report and also concluded  that Ms K caused 
the damage.
But Ms K took several photos of both cars and she challenged the assessors  findings.  She 
sent Admiral a number  of very detailed and specific questions she wanted the assessor  to 
answer. But that didnt happen. Having seen the available evidence, including  the photos 
and the assessors  report on Ms Ks car, I think the questions Ms K asked were valid and 
relevant. I think Admiral not getting answers  to those questions was unreasonable.
The main  challenge  Ms K made was in response  to the assessors suggestion that the part 
of Ms Ks car that impacted the area of damage  on the other  car was approximately 54 to 
57 cm up from the ground. But the photographic evidence provided by Ms K clearly  shows  
the damage to the other car was 42.5 cm up from the ground. The difference is between 
11.5 to 14.5 cm. Ms K understandably wanted  an explanation from the assessor as to how 
the damage could  have  been caused  by her car given the difference in height between her 
point of impact and the area of the other cars  damage.  Ms K also pointed out that 
immediately below the area of damage on the other  car, there is a moulding that protrudes 
by around 2 cm, which effectively protects the area that has been damaged.  The photos 
support this. Ms K reached  the logical conclusion  that for her car to have caused  the 
damage a protruding part of her own bumper  must  have come into contact  with the area of 
damage. But there are no protruding parts on her bumper at the relevant height.  And if, as 
claimed, her bumper caused the damage, the protruding  moulding on the other car would 
also have been  damaged  given its some 2 cm in front of the area that was damaged. But 
the protruding  moulding on the other  car suffered no damage. Ms K also suggested the type 
of damage to the other car, as seen in the photos, couldnt have been  caused by the two 
cars coming  together.  She said the damage  looked like it had been caused by a sharp object 
in a lateral movement.
Its not clear to me why Admiral didnt  get the assessor to answer  Ms Ks legitimate  
questions. In the absence  of those answers, I cant conclude that Admiral have acted 
reasonably. Ms K also correctly pointed out mistakes made by the assessor  in his report. 
The assessor recorded the cars steering and brakes as being  ok despite him not testing 
them. The assessor  also recorded incorrect tread  depths for the tyres despite not measuring 
them. Admiral upheld  that part of Ms Ks complaint. Ms K said the assessor was unprepared  
and unprofessional when he attended to examine her car. The accepted  mistakes  in the 
report together with the other  issues Ive outlined above, in my view, put into question  the 
reliability of the assessors report.  Im therefore  upholding  this complaint.
I require Admiral to appoint an independent engineer to be agreed by both parties to 
examine all the evidence, including: the reports on both Ms Ks car and the other car; the 
photos of both cars; the questions from Ms K; and any other information the parties would 
like the new engineer to consider. If the new engineer also concludes that the damage to the 
other car is consistent  with the incident  then Admiral neednt take any further action. If, 
however, the engineer concludes the damage isnt consistent with the incident then Admiral 
should: reinstate  Ms Ks NCB for the policy year in which the incident happened  (provided 
there were no other fault claims within that policy year); and amend all records,  including  
CUE, to show the incident as notification only. Given Im upholding this complaint, Admiral 
should pay Ms K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has 
experienced.
Ref: DRN72744963If Admiral dont wish to appoint a new engineer, as outlined above.  Provided they reinstate 
Ms Ks NCB and amend  the claim to notification only as outlined above, they neednt appoint  
a new engineer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Pay Ms K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Ms K has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than that they must  also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Appoint an independent  engineer  to be agreed  by both parties  to examine all the 
evidence, including:  the reports on both Ms Ks car and the other car; the photos of 
both cars; the questions from Ms K; and any other information the parties would like 
the new engineer  to consider. If the new engineer also concludes that the damage to 
the other car is consistent with the incident  then Admiral neednt  take any further 
action. If, however, the engineer concludes  the damage isnt consistent with the 
incident then Admiral should: reinstate Ms Ks NCB for the policy  year in which the 
incident happened (provided there  were  no other  fault claims within  that policy  year);  
and amend all records,  including  CUE,  to show the incident as notification only. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Ms K how much they have taken off. They should also give her a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN7274496