K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc (Natwest)  treated him unfairly  and 
unethically when it made withdrawal from a savings account to offset  funds he owed on a 
credit card, without warning him or requesting his prior approval. 
background
Mr W holds a savings account  and credit card account with Natwest. In March 2018  he 
contacted Natwest  to say he was experiencing financial  difficulties. In response, Natwest  
froze interest and charges  on the credit card account. Mr W offered to repay £120 per 
month, but Natwest didnt  accept this. Instead,  it took steps to assess  Mr Ws affordability so 
a satisfactory repayment plan could be agreed. So it asked Mr W for further financial 
information.
When Natwest didnt receive  Mr Ws income  and expenditure information,  it followed its 
process to apply its legal  right of set off, as contained in the account terms and conditions, 
and continued  to make Mr W aware  of what it intended to do. It then exercised its right of 
set-off, and took money  from Mr Ws savings account to partially  repay his credit  card 
balance.
Mr W wasnt happy with this. He didnt feel Natwest had treated him fairly. He felt that while  it 
was legally allowed  to exercise the set-off, he didnt think  it had acted ethically in his case. 
He maintained that had he not tried to work with Natwest  to reach an agreement  it would 
have been fair for it to apply  the set-off. But that he had tried.  So he complained. 
Natwest maintained  that it had applied the set-off only after it had failed to reach  a 
satisfactory repayment arrangement with Mr W, and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr W then brought his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator assessed all the evidence, and concluded that Natwest had neither made a 
mistake or treated Mr W unfairly. So the complaint wasnt  upheld.
Mr W remained unhappy, and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the genuine level of feeling  Mr W has about his complaint, and Im sorry to read 
about his financial  difficulties. However,  my role is to assess whether I think  Natwest  made a 
mistake, or treated  Mr W unfairly, such  that it needs to now put things right.  And Im afraid to 
say that I dont think it did. From the evidence available, I think Natwests  acted in good faith, 
followed its processes, and tried its best to help Mr W. What happened with the set-off was 
unfortunate, but I do think it could have been  avoided. And I cant hold Natwest responsible  
for this. 
Overall, I dont  think it made a mistake, and I dont think  its treated Mr W badly or 
unethically. I think it did try to work  with Mr W to find an alternative.  I know  Mr W feels  
Ref: DRN73093962differently, and Ive carefully taken into account  all the evidence hes continued  to send to us. 
But it doesnt change  my opinion.
Mr W says that he made a payment proposal to Natwest which it didnt accept.  After  a 
customer tells a lender  theyre experiencing financial difficulties the lender has to ensure any 
payment proposals  made are affordable. In this case, Mr W offered to pay £120 a month and 
Natwest responded to him and asked for an income and expenditure assessment to be 
completed. Natwest needed Mr W to provide that information so it could ensure the proposal 
he offered was affordable before it agreed to it. I think its reasonable for a lender to ask for 
this kind of information when being  asked to consider payments towards an account  thats  in 
arrears. There  needs to be a reasonable prospect that the plan will be a success.
Natwest didnt receive the budgeting information  it requested from Mr W so couldnt  set up a 
payment plan. And it continued to write to Mr W about his overdue debts. 
I note Mr Ws comments  that he couldnt complete an income  and expenditure assessment 
as he had no income at the time.  But he still could  have provided general  details  about  his 
financial circumstances, and I think that would have put the onus back  on Natwest to then 
see what assistance it might have been able to offer. It may be the set-off could have been  
avoided in this way.
Mr W complains that Natwest  then took money  from his savings account to pay his credit  
card (a right of offset) without first checking  to see if that was affordable  for him. But Ive 
seen Natwest did write  to him in March 2018  and asked him to provide full details of his 
budget to see what affordable payment options were available.  In the absence of a response 
from Mr W to this reasonable request for information, I think  its decision to use funds from 
his savings account to reduce what he owed on his credit care was reasonable. 
In Mr Ws response  to our adjudicators view he says he did respond to Natwests  request for 
an income and expenditure assessment and reiterated he couldnt provide the information 
requested. But during  the calls Ive listened to between  Mr W and Natwest he said the forms 
hadnt been received  not that he couldnt complete  them.
Ultimately, Natwest  didnt  get the information  it asked for. So it then made it clear what  it was 
going to do, and it did it. 
My role is to look at all the available  evidence, and make a decision that I think  is fair to both 
parties. I know  Mr W thinks Natwests made other  mistakes with his account, which he feels 
shows that its likely a mistake was made surrounding the communication, and application, 
of the set-off  from his savings account to his credit  card account. But I dont agree.
I see that a payment plan has now been agreed in respect of the credit  card.  And also that 
Natwest has resolved the issue  of the correct outstanding balance. I note that its explained 
and apologised  for an errors and confusion in this respect,  and paid Mr W £75 in 
compensation. I think this is a fair and reasonable response.
Overall, Im not able to say Natwest made a mistake,  or treated Mr W unfairly here. Its right 
of set-off  is one its entitled to in the account terms and conditions, and which  Mr W will have  
agreed to when he opened the accounts. Im satisfied the letters Natwest  sent Mr W 
regarding his credit  card debt were  received  (he provided copies to us), and also that 
Natwest tried a number of times to get Mr W to complete  an income and expenditure 
assessment, to allow it to try to reach a repayment agreement.  Had this assessment been  
Ref: DRN73093963completed by Mr W, and Im satisfied it never was, then I think its likely that a plan could 
have been agreed, and Natwest might not have had to invoke its right of off-set.
Im satisfied Mr W was given forewarning of what might happen, and opportunities to avoid 
the off-set. So I cant say, in the circumstances,  that what Natwest did was wrong. I also 
dont agree that Natwests treated  Mr W poorly, or been rude or impolite.  
Im pleased to see that a repayment plan has now been agreed,  and I hope it works well for 
both parties. 
For all of these reasons it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7309396