K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about the advice she was given  to set up a new personal pension 
plan in 2011. She has also complained that her adviser didnt provide the ongoing review  
service that had been agreed upon.  Quilter Financial Services Ltd is responsible for what  
happened, so it is Quilter I will be referring to in my decision. Mrs Bs husband  also 
received advice at the same time and has raised  a separate  complaint.  
background
Mrs B was a member of a final salary occupational pension scheme. She was looking to 
supplement her pension  because  she had missed contributing to her occupational scheme 
for several  years. Mrs B, and her husband, met with their adviser in February 2011. A joint 
fact find was completed. Separate advice  letters  were subsequently sent. Mrs B was advised 
to start contributing  to a new flexible personal  pension plan with her contributions  invested in 
a cautious managed fund. Mrs B accepted the advice and set up the new pension  plan.  The 
adviser also agreed to provide Mr and Mrs B with regular  reviews.
In 2018 Mrs B questioned why she had been  advised to set up the new personal  pension 
plan when she could  have contributed to the Additional  Voluntary  Contribution  (AVC) 
scheme provided through her employer instead. She questioned whether her personal 
pension had been in her best interests  given it had higher charges than the AVC and she 
hadnt made use of its wider range  of funds. She also complained  about  the lack of further 
reviews provided by the adviser.
In response to Mrs Bs complaint, Quilter  said, in brief, that the AVC hadnt  been 
recommended because her husband had been  a member of the same AVC scheme  but was 
looking for another provider because he was unhappy with its service and performance.  In 
that context, it wouldnt  have made sense for the adviser to recommend the AVC to Mrs B. 
Quilter also said the flexible personal pension provided Mrs B with a wide range of funds to 
choose from which, it said,  was an important feature for her at the time. It also said it 
provided flexibility in relation  to the taking  of retirement benefits.  
With regards to the lack of reviews by the adviser, Quilter accepted that the adviser had 
fallen short of what had been originally agreed  with, and paid by, Mr and Mrs B. It therefore  
offered to refund the ongoing charges that had been levied, along with £200 for the trouble 
and upset this issue had caused. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to us. An investigator  upheld the complaint because he thought  
the adviser shouldnt  have  recommended the personal pension  given its charges and 
Mrs Bs needs and circumstances at the time. Quilter didnt provide any substantive 
comments although it did request an ombudsmans decision on Mr Bs complaint. With this 
in mind, I will issue a final decision on this complaint to bring the matter to a close  for Mrs B. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator and for broadly  the same reasons. Im upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Ref: DRN77676822My starting point here is the cost of Mrs Bs personal  pension which was considerably more 
than some of the alternatives that would  have been  available to her, notably the AVC 
provided through her employer. By way of comparison, the annual management charge for 
her pension (given the fund she was recommended) was 1.85% whereas the charges of the 
AVC plan would have been  in the region of 0.65% to 1.0% p.a. depending on the fund 
chosen. This doesnt necessarily mean  the personal pension  was unsuitable. My argument 
isnt that cheaper  is always better. However,  in this case, the difference  in annual 
management charges  isnt negligible. And Im not persuaded Mrs B had a need  for the 
additional features  provided by the personal  pension, so I dont think she would have wanted 
to pay the extra to access those features. I dont think  the advisers recommendation was, 
therefore, suitable.
Quilter has pointed to the wide fund choice  that the personal pension  provided. However, its 
not clear to me why a wide fund choice  would have been necessary for Mrs B. The adviser 
classified her as having  a cautious attitude  to risk. This was the second most risk-averse  
category. So this would appear to limit the extent of the funds Mrs B would, conceivably, 
have been interested in investing  in. Mrs B has also said  persuasively  in my view  that 
she intended to retire before 60. It means  she had approximately ten years from the date of 
the advice to retirement, which  is another reason  why she wouldnt likely have made  use of 
many of the more adventurous funds  available through the personal  pension.  It also means 
Mrs B wasnt  going to be investing  in the more  aggressive funds that would have made it 
more likely that her new pension would generate the additional returns needed to make  the 
higher charges worthwhile. 
Its also notable that the adviser didnt record in the fact-find or advice letter why Mrs B had a 
need for an extensive fund choice. The fact-find is silent  on the matter, and the advice letter  
just states that the available fund options are important to Mrs B without properly explaining 
why or where this preference had come from. This doesnt automatically make the personal 
pension unsuitable.  But I dont think it unreasonable to expect there to have been a bit more 
on Mrs Bs needs in this area given it was central to the advice being given. As such, I think 
the lack of supporting evidence weakens Quilters  case here.  
In its response to Mrs Bs complaint, Quilter  also pointed to the greater flexibility  that her 
personal pension  provided relative  to the AVC, especially in relation  to income drawdown. It 
said this may now be of interest to Mrs B following the governments introduction  of greater 
pension freedoms which ended the requirement to buy an annuity. 
My first point here is that the government only introduced pension freedoms in 2015 so I 
dont think Quilter can rely on this to prove  the advice it gave to Mrs B in 2011  was suitable. 
That said,  I accept that Mrs B can now benefit  from this greater flexibility  so there is an 
argument that Mrs B has, ultimately, gained from Quilters advice. However, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Mrs B needed greater flexibility at the time or has 
subsequently benefited from it. Now that she is in the run-up to retirement,  that may now 
change. Even so, it still doesnt mean she needed the flexibility  of her personal pension  at 
the time of her advice.
In short,  at the time of her advice, I dont think Mrs B required a pension  that would  have 
given her a wide range  of options with regards to investment funds  or the taking of 
retirement income, especially if those options  came at a cost. As such, Im satisfied that the 
AVC pension that she could have accessed through her employer, and the fund choices it 
provided, would have been  suitable  for her needs  (although other options  such  as a 
stakeholder pension  may well have been suitable as well).
Ref: DRN77676823Finally, Quilter has said the advisers recollections  are that the AVC wasnt considered 
because her husband had been  unhappy  with the returns, and service,  provided by the 
same AVC scheme and had been  looking for an alternative provider. Given  this, advising 
Mrs B to contribute to the AVC would have made little sense. 
Ive considered this carefully because I think this could have been a reason to not 
recommend the AVC.  And I can see from Mr Bs suitability  letter  (but not Mrs Bs) that there  
does appear to have  been  some concern about  service and performance issues  at the AVC.  
However, Im still not persuaded that the advice to take out the personal pension  over the 
AVC was suitable. For the reasons  given  above, there doesnt seem to me to have been a 
need for the wide fund choice and flexibility of the personal pension  given Mrs Bs 
circumstances and attitude to risk. And Im satisfied that she could have accessed suitable 
funds through  the AVC and done  so at a lower cost. So, in this particular case,  I think the 
AVC would have  been a more suitable  option  for her.  
Given all the above, Im not persuaded the recommendation to open  the flexible personal 
pension was suitable advice. I think Mrs B could have accessed the benefits she needed by 
investing in a product with lower charges. Its not possible  to say what  sort of product  she 
would have been better advised to use  it could have been a stakeholder  pension,  or some 
other personal pension  product. Our investigator thought  Mrs B would have been better off in 
the AVC provided  through her employer with her contributions going  into a with-profits fund. 
His proposed compensation took this into account.  Given the with-profits fund would have 
been within Mrs Bs risk tolerances  and had a relatively low annual management charge 
(approximately 1%), I see no reason to depart from the investigators conclusions  on this  
especially as neither party made  any substantive comments  on this following the 
investigators assessment. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would now be 
in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives when she invested. To 
compensate Mrs B fairly,  Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Bs investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, the compensation amount should,  if possible,  be paid into Mrs Bs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  
with any existing protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump  sum after making a deduction of 15%. 
Ref: DRN77676824The payment would otherwise have been used  to provide pension  benefits, 25% of 
which would be tax free and the rest would have been taxed according to her likely 
tax paying status  in retirement  presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction 
adequately reflects  this.
Pay Mrs B £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. Quilter should  give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional interest
Mrs Bs 
Flexible  
Personal  
Pensionstill existsAVC Plan 
invested in 
with profits 
funddate of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision  to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being  
notified of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. In other words, its the notional transfer value of the AVC at the end 
date had the contributions made  to the flexible personal pension been  made  to the AVC 
instead.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The AVC provided through  her employer, and the with-profits  fund, were suited to her 
requirements.
Ref: DRN77676825Mrs B has not yet purchased an annuity, so there is no need  to award for future 
losses. It is now for Mrs B to consider her next steps with regards to her pension.  
If Quilter  is unable  to obtain  the necessary information to allow  the above to be calculated  
(for example, because it needs  information from another  party  such as the with-profits  
provider  and that party wont cooperate) then Mrs Bs compensation could be delayed  for 
an indefinite period. In that situation,  the FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total Return  
Index  prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total  Return Index  
should be used  as the benchmark instead  as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the type 
of return that could have been  achieved by Mrs B.
In its response to Mrs Bs complaint, Quilter  offered to return its advice fees and pay £200 in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset it caused. My understanding is that the fees were  
calculated to have  been £499.54  but they havent  been paid to Mrs B. The compensation 
calculation above  takes the advice fees into account  in so far as the actual  value of the 
flexible personal  pension as at the end date will have been  lowered because of the fees 
which makes the difference with the fair value  (and therefore compensation amount) higher 
as a result. So I wont be making a separate award for these fees  theyre included in the 
above already.
It could be argued that this approach  contradicts the decision taken previously on the case  to 
time bar Mrs Bs complaint about  missed review meetings  from over six years ago. However, 
I think the approach  outlined  above  is the correct one to take because a complaint which 
hasnt been time barred  (this one) has pointed to failings in the advice process that resulted 
in those fees, and the policy that allowed those fees to be charged,  to be recommended. 
And, had she invested in the AVC, Mrs B would have been  less likely to have  needed such  
regular ongoing  advice. Im also aware  that my approach to compensation is the same as 
that taken by our investigator and Quilter didnt comment on what  was being proposed.
Its possible that the calculation above wont result in a financial loss to Mrs B. This would  be 
because her flexible  personal pension has outperformed the estimated return  Mrs B would  
have got from being  in the with-profits fund in the AVC arrangement, even after taking into 
account the advice fees and the personal  pensions higher charges. In this case, Mrs B 
hasnt lost out financially despite  the unsuitable advice. In this situation,  I dont think  it would 
be fair to ask Quilter  to return its advice fees. 
With regards to the £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Quilter, this 
should be paid whatever  the outcome of the compensation calculation. Given  the advice was 
unsuitable, Im satisfied Mrs B was put to at least some inconvenience and its only fair that 
Quilter recognises this. Im satisfied £200 is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN77676826my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint. Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
must now pay Mrs B compensation as set out above. 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should  also provide  details of its calculation to Mrs B in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7767682