K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy through a total mortgage protection  
policy (TMPP).
background
Mr and Mrs D completed  a form in February 2002 to apply for a home loan.  They ticked  the 
box to say they didnt want  PPI. They  already had a mortgage with the Halifax that they had 
taken out in 1999. In August 2003, they took out a new joint mortgage contract and TMPP 
was added to their mortgage  account. Halifax no longer has the PPI paperwork relating to 
this sale. 
Mr D only was covered for accident, sickness and unemployment under the policy.  TMPP 
was a package  of different types of insurance,  including mortgage repayment  cover,  which 
is a form of PPI. Mr and Mrs D both also took out life cover.  But, Im just dealing  with the 
PPI part of their policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman  to review  their complaint. Mr and Mrs Ds complaint comes  to me 
to decide. 
Mr and Mrs D said, in summary, that when deciding their complaint we couldnt say what 
had happened  for certain. They said the cover  they had through  their employment was 
sufficient to cover their mortgage repayments  if they couldnt work.  They  also said the policy  
was not fully explained to them  at the time and they cant  recall any discussion  about it. 
Mr and Mrs D also said they didnt understand why Halifax  hadnt accepted liability for this 
complaint, because it had partly accepted  responsibility in relation to another complaint of 
theirs. Finally, they said,  they dont agree with whats been said about the mortgage dates, 
so they think their mortgage was taken out under  a different mortgage regime.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.  
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I must look at the available  information 
and take into account the wider circumstances to decide what most likely  happened,  
based on whats available. I dont have to be certain about what  occurred, instead I reach 
my decision  based  on what more likely than not happened.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs D took out the insurance.  They  
said they cant remember TMPP  being  discussed or explained to them at the time. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall  exactly what  was discussed at the time, 
given the time that has passed. This means that what Mr and Mrs D say isnt enough  on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
Ref: DRN71574972In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, Id have to find that its more likely that they 
werent given a fair choice about  TMPP or that it was added to their mortgage account 
without their consent. But, I cant fairly say that based on the limited information  Ive got, 
and what weve learnt about Bank of Scotlands sales processes  around that time. This 
PPI  was sold many years  ago, and banks often only keep records  for six years.
Ive seen a home loan application Mr and Mrs D completed in February  2002.  That made it 
clear that PPI was an optional insurance and Mr and Mrs D actually ticked  the box to 
decline PPI, at that time. So, I think they wouldve understood that TMPP wasnt a 
condition of the borrowing. 
I also think it likely that TMPP was discussed  before it was added to their mortgage 
account. I say this because Ive seen the paperwork that Bank of Scotland  was using 
around this time to sell PPI to customers,  and PPI was presented as optional.  Also,  
although this was a joint mortgage,  they werent both covered under the PPI part of the 
policy, only Mr D was covered. But they also took out life cover for both of them.  This 
suggests to me that there was some discussion about the cover they needed, and it was 
tailored to suit their needs.
So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mr and Mrs D werent given enough 
information about the optional nature  of PPI to make an informed choice that they wanted it. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D were persuaded of the need to protect their 
home by taking out the PPI offered and decided to buy the policy.
The policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs D. So, Bank of Scotland had to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for them, as well as giving them information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so that they could make  an informed choice about whether the policy was 
right for them and they wanted to buy it.
Only Mr D was covered under the PPI policy. But, as this was a joint mortgage, Ive taken 
into account Mrs Ds circumstances too when deciding if the policy was right for them.  It 
doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs D based  on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. I say this because:
Mr D appeared eligible  to take out the cover.
Mr D said he wouldve  got statutory sick pay only if out of work.  He said he had 
no other means of making the repayments. Mrs D was working too and said 
she wouldve got sick pay from her employer, six months worth of sick pay at 
full pay and six months worth at half pay.  But, I still think  TMPP couldve 
provided them with useful protection. It wouldve paid out for up to 24 months 
per successful  claim, so considerably longer than Mr Ds statutory sick pay 
wouldve covered  him for. 
Mr D couldve  made repeated claims under the policy.  TMPP gave them  long 
term protection for their mortgage,  protecting their home.
it wouldve allowed them to use Mrs Ds income  or sick pay to meet  their other 
household expenses.  I cant see that their other resources made this policy  
unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN71574973there were some things the policy didnt cover. I cant  see that Mr D was 
affected by these.  So, I dont think having  more information  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs D paid a monthly premium for TMPP. They  didnt have to pay 
interest on the premium  and couldve stopped  the policy at any time without 
losing out financially.  I cant see that it was unaffordable.
Its possible  they couldve been  given  clear information about the costs and 
benefits of the policy.  But, I dont think having clearer information wouldve 
changed their decision as the TMPP seemed affordable. I also think they 
probably knew they would have to pay a separate amount for it, when they 
agreed to take it out, and it was suitable for their needs.
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided them with useful protection  to 
safeguard their home if Mr D wasnt  working.
Its possible there may have been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold. But, 
I think Mr and Mrs D still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  even if they had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave them useful protection  in their circumstances. I 
cant see that theyve  lost out because of anything that Bank  of Scotland  may have done 
wrong.
I have considered the point that Mr and Mrs D raised about whether their mortgage  was 
taken out under a different regulatory  regime. I can see from Bank of Scotlands records 
that in December 2014 Mr and Mrs D took out a new mortgage contract through the 
Halifax. This resulted  in their mortgage becoming a regulated mortgage from this time 
onwards. As our adjudicator explained, the Supreme  Court ruling and new rules  and 
guidance dont  apply to certain  types  of mortgage agreement  including  a regulated  
mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 
2008, they dont apply  here. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN71574974 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Kim Parsons 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7157497