K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains about the management  of his pension fund by Standard  Life Assurance 
Limited, resulting  in a loss of value.  
Background
Mr G had a pension fund managed by Standard  Life. Prior  to 2017 Mr G had received 
financial advice from an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) and Mr G had given Standard 
Life instructions on the funds he wanted  his pension invested in.
Unfortunately, in 2017 his IFA went out of business.  In April 2019 Mr G noticed the value of 
his pension fund was lower than it had been  in September  the previous year. He complained 
to Standard Life that it should have taken action  to prevent this, such as moving his fund to a 
lower-risk investment. He also complained that he hadnt been informed that Standard Life 
Assurance Limited had been sold to a third party.
In its final response letter,  Standard  Life said the value of the plan had been influenced by 
normal market forces, and these  had impacted on the value of Mr Gs chosen  investment 
funds. It said it was not its role to monitor the plan nor to advise Mr G to review his 
investment choices. It also said it reminded him in a letter sent in October  2018  that he was 
approaching his nominated retirement date,  that the value of the pension  could  go up or 
down and he could  take his benefits  at any time of his choosing.  In relation to the sale of the 
business it said the administration of his pension remained with Standard  Life and the sale 
had no effect on this.
Mr G didnt agree with this and complained  to our service. He said he felt Standard  Life had 
a duty to exercise skill and care to ensure his pension  was protected and return  a 
reasonable investment given all the circumstances.  He said Standard  Life told him the 
pension funds selected by his former financial adviser had remained unchanged since the 
IFA went out of business in 2017.  He complained that Standard Life had sold its pension 
business without  notifying him.
Our investigator thought that Standard Life were  responsible for the administration of his 
pension but it would  only act on his instructions, and it wouldnt advise him on his investment 
choices. He thought Mr G was responsible for the choice of funds his pension was invested 
in, and if he felt they needed reviewing he should  have discussed this with an IFA. He 
thought the fund value  had fluctuated in line with the markets and 2018 had been a volatile 
period. He also thought that although Standard  Life had not informed him of the merger with 
another business, he hadnt been adversely affected by this commercial decision and his 
pension was still being administered by Standard Life.
Ref: DRN72642252Mr G didnt agree. He said our investigator had:
made no mention  of the fact his IFA had gone  out of business  in 2017
was oblivious to the inability of Standard Life to maintain  accurate records  setting out 
how client funds are actively managed
had not emphasised any evidence whatsoever  or a single piece of legislation in 
support of his findings
and that Standard Life took a business as usual approach.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr G has made a number of points which Ive laid out above,  and I have looked at them all. 
But were  an informal dispute resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts.  In 
deciding this complaint Ive focussed  on what I consider to be the heart of the matter, rather 
than commenting  on every point in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr G. Rather 
it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The essence  of Mr Gs complaint is that he felt Standard Life should have taken more of a 
proactive approach to the funds his pension was invested in, so that its performance was 
protected better.  But Im afraid I dont agree. I appreciate Mr G is very disappointed with the 
performance of his pension. Thats understandable. But I dont think  that Standard Life has 
done anything  wrong, so Im not going  to uphold the complaint.
Standard Life managed  his pension, and invested  it in funds that were chosen by Mr G 
(albeit up until 2017 with advice from his IFA). When Mr Gs IFA went out of business  in 
2017 the fund choice  didnt change again.  
Ive seen the investment guide  published by Standard Life, illustrating the different  
investment options,  and it is, I think, clear that these options must be chosen by the investor, 
and Standard Life will not give any advice. It is a product provider and it is not authorised to 
provide advice. As a provider it was required to explain the various types  of fund options, 
and administer the plan in line with the investment instructions given  to it. And this is what 
has happened up until 2017 when Mr Gs IFA went out of business. 
From what  Ive seen Im satisfied Standard Life didnt have a responsibility to ensure Mr G 
continued to be happy with his fund choice, or to ensure it reflected his current  
circumstances or attitude to risk. Its responsibility  lay with ensuring  the pension  was invested  
in the fund that had been  selected by Mr G until it was instructed otherwise, or until Mr G 
reached the age of 75.
So when Mr Gs IFA went out of business, it was for him to review and make  his own fund 
choice, or to get advice from a new IFA. And if he decided  that his attitude to risk had 
changed, and the fund choice should  be changed to reflect this, he couldve instructed 
Standard Life to make the appropriate  changes. 
Ref: DRN72642253I have also considered the fact that Standard Life didnt inform Mr G that it had merged with 
another business. Having looked at the information  regarding this merger Im satisfied that it 
would have had no effect on Mr G. Standard Life continued to administer his pension and it 
was purely a commercial  decision at the time.
So given all of the above, Im satisfied  that Standard Life have  been  fair and reasonable and 
I dont require them to do anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7264225