K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says that St Andrews Insurance  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs D or St Andrews Insurance Plc sent me anything  further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions   
I reached in my provisional  decision - for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject 
my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN78833882copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs D says St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs D bought  the policy  in July 2004  during a telephone call after shed taken  out a Halifax credit card 
in early 2003.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint  because:
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ds Halifax credit card application form. Its been signed  and dated 25 
February 2003. On this form its been typed; You have  requested:  No Repayments Cover.  
So I think  that Mrs D was aware that PPI was optional  and that she could have a credit card 
with Halifax without PPI.
The PPI was then added to the account in July 2004   well over a year after the card had 
been taken out. Mrs D has complained that she wasnt aware that shed  taken out PPI. 
Mrs D disputes that a call took place. St Andrews  dont have any call recording  available and 
theres also no call notes  available  so I dont really know what was discussed.
Ive seen copies of letters  that the business  say were  sent to Mrs D following the sale of the 
PPI. For example, Ive seen a copy of a letter dated 6 July 2004.  This letter refers  to your 
recent application  for Halifax Credit Card  Repayments Cover.  I cant  safely  say whether  or 
not Mrs D did receive such a letter.  
But, Ive then considered that if PPI suddenly  appeared on Mrs Ds credit card statements, 
particularly as shes told us that she didnt have PPI on any other account  shes had, that 
shed quite reasonably have questioned  with St Andrews  much sooner than she did why 
she was paying for PPI. But theres no evidence that she did question it until she made  her 
complaint.
On balance, I think  its more likely than not that St Andrews  made Mrs D aware  that she had 
a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose  to take it. 
St Andrews recommended  the PPI to Mrs D, and it seems to have  been right for her based 
on what  Ive seen  so far of her circumstances  at the time. 
Its possible  the information St Andrews  gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs D doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main  things 
Ref: DRN78833883the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. 
Its my understanding that Mrs D has told us that she had a separate  insurance policy with a 
deferral period  of 6 months and after which  it would  have  paid out 50% of her normal  salary 
per month.  Our adjudicator  requested detailed information about this policy  on 10 December 
2018 - but no further details were provided by Mrs D. 
Ive assumed that this was an accident and sickness, income protection  type policy. 
Based on what Mrs D has already told us, she was only entitled to statutory sick pay form her 
employer if she was unwell and unable  to work. So, from day 1 until month 6 shed have 
limited other means  for making her credit card repayments.  The savings that Mrs D has told 
us about also wouldnt  have lasted for as long as the six months  deferral period if Mrs D was 
using them to replace her income whilst  waiting for the separate insurance policy deferral 
period to end.  
I accept that its a possibility that Mrs D wouldnt need to rely on the PPI policy once the 
separate insurance policy shes provided  some details of kicked in. But based on what Ive 
seen so far, I cant fairly say that the recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable or that it 
wasnt right for Mrs D. 
Mrs D now has another opportunity to clarify her circumstances  and existing  means if the 
assumptions Ive made  are not reflective of her circumstances at the time of sale.
So I currently dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ds comments, but these points dont currently change my decision.
my provisional  final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
If either Mrs D or St Andrews Insurance Plc have  anything further to add, they should  do so by 7 
June 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7883388