K820x#14complaint
Mr A is complaining that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited  cancelled  his commercial 
vehicle insurance  policy. 
background
In April 2016 Mr A took out a motor trade policy through Tradewise to work as a part-time 
motor trader. The policy renewed for the next two years. 
In February 2018  Mr As brother was involved in an accident while  driving one of Mr As cars. 
And in April 2018 Tradewise wrote  to Mr A to enquire why hed allowed someone not named 
on his insurance  policy  to drive his car. Mr A responded to say that his brothers  car was in 
the garage being repaired. So hed allowed his brother to drive the car while  his car was 
being repaired. But he explained  that the car was being insured under his brothers policy. 
Tradewise responded to accept Mr As explanation.
But in August 2018, Tradewise wrote to Mr A again to ask him to explain why hed allowed 
someone not named on the insurance  policy to drive his vehicle on two separate  occasions.  
It also asked him to provide evidence of his proof  of trading and it asked for the sales receipt  
for one of his cars which it was no longer insuring.
Mr A gave Tradewise a copy of a purchase  invoice for a motorbike which  he said he was 
going to do some work to and repair. He also provided some invoices for maintenance he 
was doing on one of his cars. Finally, he explained  that hed scrapped the car it had queried.
In September  2018 Tradewise wrote to Mr A to give him notice  that it intended to cancel the 
policy in seven days, because it wasnt satisfied that he was trading sufficiently. Mr A 
responded to give a detailed explanation.  He said that hed always made it clear that he was 
a part-time motor trader. But he said that his company had been  going through  a major 
refurbishment, so he was having to work overtime during that time. He said this meant he 
hadnt been able to work as a motor trader between February and August 2018. But he said 
he had bought two cars and sold one before the policy was cancelled.
Tradewise didnt think the information  Mr A had given was enough, so it cancelled  the 
insurance policy. Mr A complained that it had done so. He also complained that Tradewise 
had recorded  two pending claims on his record, but he said the claims were  never made on 
his insurance policy.  Tradewise said that the claims were recorded  as pending because his 
brothers insurer hadnt advised that it had accepted the claims at that point. Mr A queried 
this as he said hed been told that it had accepted the claims and asked it to clarify this. In 
November 2018  Tradewise advised  Mr A that the other insurer had now advised  it had 
accepted the claim.
Tradewise later responded to Mr As complaint, but it didnt uphold  it. It said that it was 
concerned that Mr A had allowed someone  not insured on his insurance policy to drive the 
car on two separate incidents which had resulted  in claims. It said that, while his brothers 
insurer had accepted both claims in this instance, it would have had to deal with the claims 
under the Road Traffic Act if the insurer hadnt  accepted them. And it said this was a risk it 
wasnt willing to accept.
Tradewise further  said that the policy was for people actively involved in the motor trade. 
And it said that, while it acknowledged the information Mr A had given, it didnt think  he was 
Ref: DRN78556422actively being involved in the motor trade at the time. And it said that the terms of the policy 
allowed it to cancel the policy in these circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  not upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Mr A is complaining because he thinks its unfair  that Tradewise cancelled his policy. And 
he thinks its relied upon incorrect information to do so. It seems to me that Tradewise has 
cancelled the policy for two reasons:
1.Mr A had allowed  someone not insured  on his insurance policy  to drive his cars which  
had resulted in two accidents; and
2.It didnt think Mr A had provided  enough evidence  to show  that he was actively  involved 
in the motor trade industry.
The terms of Mr As insurance policy set out that:
The Company [Tradewise] or the Companys  duly authorised agent  may cancel this 
Insurance by giving not less than seven days notice from the date of the despatch  of a letter 
to the Insured at the last known address.
So the terms of the policy entitled Tradewise to cancel the policy if it wanted to do so. But it 
must exercise this right on a fair and reasonable basis.
I note Mr A says that his brothers insurer had accepted the claim and hadnt declined it. But 
Tradewise has provided us the email  correspondence it had with the insurer.  And its clear 
from this that in May 2018 the insurer did tell Tradewise that it had declined the claim. 
Tradewise queried  this with the insurer, given Mr As comments  in respect  to this. But the 
insurer responded in July 2018 and said:
Our insured confirmed to us at notification stage that he was driving a courtesy car which  
had been supplied by a repairing garage. There is no cover available  under our policy. Our 
Driving Other Cars  cover  does not cover this scenario.  
Following this, Tradewise  reopened the queries it had raised in April 2018 and I dont think it 
was unreasonable that it did so, given the other  insurers response.  I note Mr As comments 
that the insurer did accept the claims,  but I cant say that Tradewise acted  unreasonably  in 
this respect.
Tradewise has commented  that its concerned Mr A was allowing individuals not insured  on 
the policy to drive his cars. It said that, if the insurer hadnt covered the claim, it would have 
had to settle the claim under the Road Traffic Act. And this was a risk it wasnt  willing  to 
undertake. Tradewise is correct that, even though Mr As brother was driving the car under 
his own insurance  policy, it could have become liable for the losses had the insurer  not 
accepted the claim. So, while I dont dispute that it didnt have to deal with the claims in this 
instance, I think it had valid concerns in this respect.  And I think the terms of the contract  
entitled Tradewise  to cancel the policy in these circumstances. 
But, even  if this wasnt the case, I think it was also entitled to cancel the policy as Mr A 
hadnt given enough evidence to show he was actively  involved in the motor trade. The 
terms of the contract  also specify that:
Ref: DRN78556423This is an insurance policy for those actively involved in the Motor Trade  and Tradewise 
may at anytime, and in the event of a claim request documentary evidence  of your motor  
trade activity. Failure to supply the information when requested  may result in your policy  
being cancelled  or void and all claims declined.
Mr A has said that he always set out that he was a part-time trader  and I dont dispute  that. I 
also acknowledge his comment  that he wasnt able to trade because of his full-time job. But 
the reality is that Mr A hadnt provided sufficient evidence that he wasnt actively involved in 
the motor trade industry at the time.  I dont  dispute Mr As reasons why he wasnt  able to do 
so at the time. But, the terms of his contract  entitled  Tradewise  to cancel the policy in these 
circumstances. And I cant say it was unreasonable for it to do so at that time.
So, while I acknowledge and appreciate Mr As comments in respect to why he thinks  the 
cancellation was unfair. I cant  say that Tradewise has acted unreasonably in this matter.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything more  to think about, I see no reason to reach  a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7855642