K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. MBNA disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs C 
and to MBNA on 3 October 2019.  I summarise my findings:
MBNA has given us a screenshot of the online application in use at the time. It includes 
a brief outline of the cover, followed by equally prominent  options  to take or decline it. 
I thought it was likely that Mrs C would have seen  these options when she was applying  
for the credit  card. And I thought the PPI was added as a result of her selecting the yes 
option, to take the PPI. So I thought MBNA  made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional 
and that she chose to take it  although I could understand why she may no longer 
remember this.
Mrs C told us that she applied for the credit card over the phone, and that MBNA  
recommended the PPI to her. But I was satisfied from MBNAs  records that Mrs C 
applied for the card and PPI online.  So I thought  it was unlikely that she had any direct  
contact with MBNAs staff during  the application process,  or that any advice  or 
recommendation was given.  This meant that MBNA  didnt have to check  if the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs C. But it still had a responsibility  to give her clear  enough  information  to 
enable her to decide  for herself whether the cover was right for her.
I accepted that it was possible the information MBNA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it should have been. But Id explained  that I was satisfied that Mrs C chose  
to take out the policy. So she appeared to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years  later. 
Our adjudicator had recommended that the complaint should  be upheld, on the grounds 
that Mrs C had told us she was working for under 16 hours per week  when she took the 
policy out. He explained that this meant she wasnt eligible  for the policy, so couldnt 
have benefitted  from it. 
In response to the adjudicators view, MBNA  pointed out that when it spoke to Mrs C 
after she raised  her complaint, she told it she was working for at least 16 hours per 
week. So Id asked  Mrs C to clarify the position, and shed  confirmed that she was, in 
fact, working for 16 hours per week. This was enough to be eligible for the policy. And 
based on what  Id seen, I was satisfied that Mrs C met the other eligibility  requirements.
Ref: DRN79395142Mrs Cs told us that shed have been  entitled to little or no sick pay from her employer at 
the time. If shed  made a successful  claim on the PPI, it would have helped  with her 
credit card payments  until the balance outstanding on her credit  card was repaid  if she 
was off sick, or for up to 12 months  if she lost her job. So I thought the PPI could have 
been useful for Mrs C, especially as shes told us she didnt have any other  means she 
could have  used  to make  her credit card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her 
job.
I was satisfied  that based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, 
Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover.  And the policy  
was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So taking everything into account,  
I thought it unlikely Mrs C would have made a different  decision even if better 
information had been provided. On balance I thought  shed still have taken out the 
policy.
This meant that based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt intending  to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint.
further submissions
MBNA hasnt commented on my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now 
expired. 
Mrs C disagrees  with my provisional  decision.  She says:
Shes never applied for a credit card online.
The PPI wasnt  explained  to her when she applied for the card.  And shed never have 
agreed to take it if the facts had all been  explained.  
Mrs Cs advisers  have  also told us that she was working full-time when she took out the 
credit card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further points that 
Mrs C has made to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
The fact that Mrs C was working full-time when she took out the PPI doesnt  make any 
difference to my decision.  As a full-time worker, Im satisfied that Mrs C was eligible for the 
policy, and could have  benefited fully from the cover it provided.  
I acknowledge that Mrs C says shes never  applied for a credit card online.  But as 
I explained in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied  from MBNAs records  that Mrs C did 
apply for this card online. As this happened nearly  17 years ago, I find it completely 
understandable that Mrs C no longer  remembers this.
Ref: DRN79395143I explained in my provisional decision  that I accepted that the information MBNA  gave  Mrs C 
about the PPI might  not have been  as clear as it should have been. But I also explained that 
I was satisfied that Mrs C had chosen to take out the PPI. So it looked as if she was 
interested in this type of policy. And given her circumstances at the time, and the cover that 
the PPI provided,  I thought it was unlikely  that better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs C off taking it. That remains my view, for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision.
So Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but having taken into account her further comments, Im 
not convinced  that theres  any reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7939514