K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs L hold with The Co-operative  Bank Plc 
(trading as Platform).  There were various problems when Mr and Mrs L were  repaying their 
further advance  sub-account.
background
Mr and Mrs L have a mortgage with Platform. This was split into two sub-accounts, the main 
mortgage and a further advance. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs L wanted to repay their further  advance and did so in two parts; in 
August they paid £60,000 and then they paid the residual amount  of just over £13,000  in 
September. Unfortunately each time Platform mis-allocated  the funds to the main  mortgage, 
which triggered a partial early  repayment  charge (ERC).
The August  mis-allocation  came to light the same month, and to put it right Platform moved 
the funds to the further advance sub-account (backdated to the date each payment was 
received) and cancelled  the transactions from the main mortgage  (so also cancelling the 
ERCs). It paid £25 compensation.
A further  complaint was made at the start of September as a redemption statement that was 
sent didnt have the updated transactions on it, so the funds looked like they were still 
mis-applied.  Platform paid £50 compensation for that complaint.
Unfortunately the same  mis-application of funds occurred in September when Mr and Mrs L 
made the residual  payment, and again  to resolve  matters Platform moved  the funds to the 
further advance  account and wiped  the transactions from the main mortgage.  There  was 
also a complaint that the direct debit  was collected  for the further advance on 1 October after 
the account should have  been repaid, and then wasnt refunded  for five days.
Mr and Mrs L said theyd lost trust in Platform and wanted the ERC waived on their main  
mortgage so they could  move to a different lender. Platform didnt agree to that and instead 
offered a further  £125 compensation (so taking it to a total of £200).
Our adjudicator thought a total of £350 was a more reasonable  offer, taking into account 
everything that had happened including the later cancellation of the main mortgage direct 
debit. Platform agreed to that, but Mr and Mrs L werent happy so its been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments - including listening to the various 
calls - to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. Although 
Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Platform has already  admitted  it made  a lot of mistakes,  so I dont need to make  a finding on 
what happened, or why. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes  
mistakes, mistakes do happen. What I need to decide is whether the current offer of 
compensation is fair, or whether more is warranted.
Ref: DRN79156042Mr and Mrs L say £350  doesnt cover  the inconvenience or time theyve spent resolving this. 
They also say they dont feel they can trust Platform, so feel unable  to make  overpayments 
to the main mortgage  without the risk of unfair or inappropriate fees. 
All this happened over a fairly  short time period and each time Platform resolved the problem 
as soon as it was notified of it. Mr and Mrs L havent  been  left financially worse off as a result  
of the errors, and whilst  it must have been  frustrating  each  time something went wrong 
things were, on the whole,  resolved quickly.
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish  a business. Our awards arent 
punitive. So when thinking about whether  to award  compensation  and if so how much, I look 
at the impact  of a businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of 
compensation weve made in other  similar  cases. Having done so Im satisfied that £350 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
I cant tell Mr and Mrs L what to do if they want to overpay  their main mortgage account,  but I 
can reassure them that this problem wont recur if they do so. Thats not because I have any 
inside information,  but quite simply because  they now only have one sub-account  so funds 
cant be accidently mis-attributed  to a second  sub-account because they dont have a 
second one anymore. 
It could be that something else goes wrong,  but I see no reason to believe that would 
happen any more  than it would to any other customer with any other lender. However, if 
something else does  go wrong then thats  something Mr and Mrs L can complain about at 
the time,  and Ive no reason to believe Platform wont put it right as it did here.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but only insofar as I consider  the current  offer of compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I order  The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay £350 (less  any amounts already 
paid) to Mr and Mrs L in full and final settlement  of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7915604