K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Yorkshire  Bank, dealt with 
his joint mortgage  account after he separated from his ex-wife.  He asks that it removes  
negative information  from his credit file and pays compensation.
background
Mr H has a joint mortgage with his ex-wife. He no longer  lives at the property.  Mr H says his 
ex-wife is responsible for the mortgage payments under the terms of their separation.
Yorkshire agreed repayment arrangements  with Mr Hs ex-wife. Mr H says he wasnt  notified 
and the repayment arrangements have affected  his credit file. He says Yorkshire sent letters  
about the repayment arrangements to the wrong  address. Yorkshire  offered  £125 
compensation for not writing  to Mr H about  the repayment arrangements.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said it was 
reasonable for Yorkshire to offer a repayment  arrangement to Mr Hs ex-wife and to record 
the arrangement  on their credit files. It had made  Mr H aware his credit file would be affected  
if his ex-wife was unable to maintain payments.
Our investigator said while Yorkshire hadnt  sent letters about the repayment arrangements 
to Mr H, there was nothing to suggest that Mr H would have made the payments if hed been 
told in advance about the repayment arrangements.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Yorkshire hadnt  told him the contractual  mortgage  payments 
werent going to be made in full. He said he was refused a mortgage because of the missed  
payments and the mortgages now available to him and his new partner are more  expensive. 
Mr H is also concerned about future applications  for credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr H and his ex-wife  have a joint mortgage,  which means  theyre jointly and separately liable 
for the debt. 
Mr H says he moved out of the property in early  2017. He says he continued to make  
mortgage payments  while  a settlement  was mediated with his ex-wife. Mr H says it was 
agreed hed make payments to allow his ex-wife  time to re-mortgage, and this ended  in 
August 2018.  
Mr H agreed in August  2018 that the mortgage  terms  would be varied  to allow  interest only 
payments for three months.  This ended  in early December 2018. As the contract was varied, 
no adverse information  was recorded  on Mr Hs credit file.
Ref: DRN70643522In November 2018 Yorkshire asked Mr H whether he would agree to extend the interest  only 
period. Mr H didnt agree.  Yorkshires note says:  I made him aware that when it reverts back  
to capital and interest  on 1 December 2018 if the payment is not made, they will both have  
their credit ratings  impacted.
In early December 2018 Mr H asked what payments were being  made.  Yorkshire told him it 
had agreed an arrangement for his ex-wife  to make reduced payments because  she couldnt 
afford the capital and interest payments.
Yorkshire agreed further repayment arrangements with Mr Hs ex-wife. Mr H says Yorkshire 
hasnt sent letters to him about the arrangements,  despite saying  it would do so and having 
his correct address.  
did Yorkshire treat Mr H unfairly?
As this is a joint mortgage account, Yorkshire  is able to agree a repayment  arrangement  with 
either party. Yorkshire has agreed  repayment arrangements with Mr Hs ex-wife. I think 
Yorkshire is right to say that it cant give Mr H information about  his ex-wife and her 
circumstances.  
Yorkshire has to record accurate and up to date information with the credit  reference 
agencies. The contractual monthly payments for this mortgage account were  not made in 
full. Reduced payments  were made  under a repayment arrangement  and this was recorded 
on Mr Hs credit file.
I could require Yorkshire to amend what its recorded on Mr Hs credit file if it was incorrect  
or I thought it was unfair.  But I dont think its reasonable to do so here.
Yorkshire sent written  confirmation of the repayment  arrangement that started  in December 
2018 to the property address. As Mr H no longer lives at the address, he didnt  receive the 
letter. Despite having Mr Hs correct  address,  Yorkshire continued to fail to send him letters 
about the repayment arrangements. I think its right that Yorkshire has acknowledged this 
and offered compensation.
 
However, despite the errors with the letters, I think Yorkshire made  Mr H aware of the 
repayment arrangements and that his credit  file would be affected. It asked him in November 
2018 if hed agree to extend the interest  only period, and explained his credit file would be 
affected if his ex-wife didnt maintain payments. It told him in early December 2018  that a 
repayment arrangement  was in place. It emailed a copy of the letter setting out the 
arrangement agreed in January 2019  to Mr H in late January 2019   before the first payment 
under the arrangement was due. Mr H raised a complaint  with Yorkshire about the 
information on his credit file in February 2019. So hes been  aware  of the situation  for some 
time. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr H has tried or offered to make payments so that the 
contractual monthly payments  are made  in full and a repayment  arrangement  isnt needed.  
So I dont  think the outcome here would have  been  different if Mr H had received the letters  
about the repayment arrangements.
Mr H says Yorkshire didnt tell him he could make payments. But Mr H was aware  that the 
contractual mortgage payments were  due and not made in full. Regardless of his separation 
Ref: DRN70643523from his ex-wife, he remains  liable for the mortgage, and I think Yorkshire was clear  about 
that in its communication with him. 
I appreciate Mr Hs concerns about  the possible effect of the information on his credit  file 
when he applies for a mortgage  or other credit. But the information recorded  by Yorkshire is 
an accurate reflection of the mortgage account  that he remains  jointly responsible  for. 
Its unfortunate that Yorkshire made repeated errors  with letters to Mr H. But, for the reasons 
Ive given, I dont  think this affected  the outcome here. Yorkshire  offered  £125 compensation 
for its errors and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation offered by 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7064352