K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Services Limited failed to arrange an annual service  during 
the period of his policy and the compensation it has offered for this isnt reasonable.
background
Mr W has a home emergency policy with British Gas. As part of the policy, British Gas 
provides an annual service. The policy was due to renew in December 2017. Mr W expected  
to have a service before that date.  When he spoke to British Gas about this in November 
date he was told the next available date for a service was in February  2018.
Mr W complained  about this. He said he was entitled to a service  between December 2016 
and December 2017, so British Gas was in breach of the terms of his policy  by failing to 
arrange this. And the previous service had been  in September  2016,  so it would be well over 
12 months between service visits taking place.  He also said the service didnt in fact take 
place in February 2018 and was rearranged for March. 
British Gas accepted that it hadnt  arranged the service during the policy  period. It agreed to 
refund £65, which was the cost of the service. And it offered a further £60 compensation, 
made up of £30 for the inconvenience  caused to Mr W by its delay arranging the service, 
and £30 for not replying to his complaint within the time limit for doing this.
Mr W didnt accept the offer and complained  to this service. He said the compensation didnt 
reflect all the trouble hed been  put to, including  the fact he couldnt switch to a different 
insurer if a service hadnt been done. He requested £408.47 compensation, as follows:
Breach of contract in failing to service the boiler  - £150.00
Additional costs incurred in not being  able to move provider - £148.47
Failure to keep  appointment - £50.00
Inconvenience, delay in addressing our complaint etc - £60.00 
Our investigator said the policy outlines that the annual service has a value of £65, so the 
compensation offered for this was fair. He didnt think there should be a payment for the loss 
of opportunity to move  to a different insurer as Mr W hadnt provided any evidence of this 
cost. But he thought the compensation for delay in replying to Mr Ws complaint should be 
increased to £50. So he recommended that British Gas pay a total of £145, made up as 
follows:
£65 for the cost of the annual service;
£50 for the missed  appointment in February 2018; and
£30 for complaint handling delays.
British Gas didnt  agree, and requested an ombudsmans decision. It said the £30 offered for 
the broken appointment  was a fair reflection  of the impact this would  have had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W was entitled to an annual service and British Gas failed to arrange  this in time.  The 
policy terms explain that the cost of an annual  service is £65. The terms also say British  Gas 
will make three attempts  to contact the customer to arrange a service,  and if it doesnt  hear 
Ref: DRN78601942from the customer, wont refund the cost of the service.  So it follows  that, if it has heard from 
the customer but doesnt arrange the service,  it will refund  the cost of £65  which is what  
was offered in this case. In the circumstances, I think  thats fair and I dont think British Gas 
needs to pay more.
I also agree  with our investigator that payments  of £50 for the missed  appointment and £30 
for delay  replying to Mr Ws complaint are fair. British  Gas doesnt think  the impact  of 
missing the appointment in February 2018  would be severe enough  to justify a payment of 
£50. In other circumstances it might  not. But in this case, there had already  been 
considerable delay  at that point  it was almost two months after the previous policy period 
had finished. So it would  have been very frustrating for Mr W. I think £50 is a fair sum to 
reflect this.
Mr W has said he could  have saved £148.47 by moving to a different insurer, but couldnt  do 
this without his boiler  being serviced.  British  Gas doesnt believe there was any loss because  
Mr W renewed his policy  and got a service  in the following period of cover. It also says he 
could have got a service  from another provider if hed really  wanted to, at his own cost 
(which he could presumably have  claimed  back).
I dont think it would  be fair to expect  Mr W to have  to arrange and pay for a service  that 
British Gas should have arranged. But we dont have evidence  for example, a quote  or 
other evidence from that time confirming he had tried to move. And without it, I dont think its 
fair to direct British Gas to make a payment for this.
fair compensation 
For these reasons I think the sum of £145 is a fair amount to reflect the delays by British Gas 
and the impact this had on Mr W. I understand British Gas sent a payment of £125 to Mr W, 
though Im not sure if he accepted it. If that payment has been made, then British Gas 
should make  a further payment of £20.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct British Gas Services  Limited 
to pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7860194