K820x#14complaint
Mr D, Mr K and Mr J said that BUPA Insurance Limited mis-sold its group private medical
insurance.
Mr D, Mr K and Mr J are a business partnership. Mr D brings this complaint on behalf of their 
business but for simplicity I'll refer to all submissions as being  made  by Mr D personally.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional findings, a copy  of which, is 
attached to this final decision below. 
Mr D was unhappy with BUPAs actions regarding the offer of group  insurance. It had initially 
said it would  offer a group  policy on a non  underwritten basis.  Essentially offering cover on 
the same  terms as Mr Ds previous medical insurer. However, when it came to move across 
to BUPA, Mr D was told his pre-existing medical  condition of hypertension meant it would not 
be possible  to offer cover for any heart problems.  
In my provisional findings, I recommended  Mr Ds complaint not be upheld.  My reasons  for 
this were because I felt Mr D hadnt  given  BUPA  a fair opportunity to investigate  and put 
things right. I noted it took BUPA just over a week to correct its mistake  and that it told Mr D 
itd keep its offer open for the policy renewal the following year. 
Mr D responded to my provisional findings.  Ive summarised his main arguments below;
This was a very time sensitive issue and so he couldnt allow  BUPA the time it 
needed to investigate his concerns. The existing policy was up for renewal on 1 
February 2018 and he had a 14-day deadline  from then to get things sorted 
otherwise he would not have been  able to return to the previous insurer  under 
preferable terms;
Mr D didnt delay complaining to BUPA. He did this on 12 February and again 
formally on 23 February. Mr D does not think this is an unreasonable  delay;
BUPAs rectification came  too late on 6 March  because  by that time, the group had 
taken personal policies with the existing provider and was locked into another years 
contract. Mr D also highlighted that BUPA  would  not guarantee the price of the new 
policy if he decided to take up its offer in 2019 and; 
BUPA committed an illegal  act under the Misrepresentations Act 1967 and that this 
has caused him significant financial  hardship  as he now pays  more  for cover than he 
did before.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having do so, I wont  be upholding Mr Ds 
complaint, mainly for the reasons Ive already given as part of my provisional findings. 
Ref: DRN74399642However, Ive carefully considered Mr Ds response  to those findings  and thought  it might  be 
helpful if I explained why it doesnt  change my decision.
I take on board Mr Ds comments about  potentially losing the benefit of his previous 
providers cover for his pre-existing medical  conditions, had he not given it an answer  in 
good time. Mr Ds existing policy was due to expire on 1 February  2018  and so he decided  to 
see whether he could source  a more competitive one. He found a policy with BUPA and 
completed the necessary paperwork on 9 February.  
I agree  that BUPA made a mistake by telling him it would not provide cover for heart 
conditions due to his hypertension. It told him this three days after receiving his paperwork 
on 12 February. Ive highlighted this chronology because Mr D made the argument  that he 
had next to no time to try and resolve  this problem.  He effectively said that he needed to 
make a choice on the spot about how best to move forward.  
Mr D was able to take up another offer with his existing provider whereby it would continue 
to cover his pre-existing medical conditions.  But he only had 14 days  from the policy renewal 
date to do this and as he was already on day 12, he made the decision to return  to that 
provider and take up the offer and was locked in for another  year. 
I understand the arguments Mr D is putting forward here and to be clear, I agree BUPA 
made an error. But I dont  think  it fair to apply the deadline given by another insurer  to this 
situation. I say that because  there  were too many variables surrounding the circumstances 
of this complaint  that were outside of BUPAs control. For example, Mr D could have begun 
looking for another provider much sooner than he did, rather  than on the renewal  date, 
giving BUPA more  time to arrange  the switch. 
Further, in the email exchange between  Mr D and BUPA on 12 February, Mr D said his pre-
existing medical condition had not caused him any problems  over the last 15 years  and that, 
if BUPA would not offer cover on a continuation basis, then he would not be able to proceed.  
Theres no mention of a 14-day deadline,  a request to escalate his concerns or a complaint. 
This didnt  happen  until 23 February.  And so, I dont think it reasonable to hold BUPA 
responsible in the way Mr D has suggested.        
When Mr D made his complaint on 23 February, it investigated and responded in good time. 
Ive not said that Mr D caused an unnecessary delay in raising  his concerns with BUPA. But 
considering the argument hes put forward about  this being a time sensitive issue, I think  it 
reasonable to suggest that he could  have been more proactive in escalating his concerns 
with BUPA  on 12 February  and let it know about  the deadline hed been given. 
I appreciate BUPAs resolution came too late for Mr D to take up the offer in 2018, but I note 
BUPA said it would offer the same initiative again for 2019  which  I thought was fair. 
Mr D highlighted that BUPA would not guarantee the offer would be available  at the same 
price, but Im satisfied  with BUPAs response  to this. Theres no obligation on insurers to do 
this. Prices generally change year on year for several reasons.  And given this is a medical 
insurance policy, its understandable  that with each year that passes, the risk of making a 
claim increases and therefore so too, does  the cost of the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN74399643Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, Mr K and 
Mr J to accept  or reject  my decision before  19 January 2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
[copy of provisional decision]
Complaint
Mr D, Mr K and Mr J said that BUPA  Insurance  Limited  mis-sold  its group  private  medical  
insurance.
Mr D, Mr K and Mr J are a business  partnership.  Mr D brings  this complaint  on behalf  of their 
business  but for simplicity  Ill refer  to all submissions  as being  made  by Mr D personally.
background
Mr D had an existing  group  policy  with another  insurer.  The group  policy  offered  private  
medical  insurance  for their employees.  Mr D decided  to change  providers  and so received  a 
quote  where  it was agreed  that BUPA  would  provide  cover  for pre-existing  medical  conditions.  
Mr D ended  his existing  cover  with another  provider  and BUPA  set up the new group  policy.  
However,  Mr D said that BUPA  changed  its position  on covering  the pre- existing  conditions.
Ref: DRN74399644Mr D decided  to return  to his previous  provider,  however,  the previous  provider  said it would  
not reinstate  the existing  group  policy.  And so, Mr D decided  to set up personal  private  medical  
insurance  policies  instead.  Mr D is unhappy  because  his new personal  policy  costs  much  more  
than his existing  one and so he wanted  BUPA  to cover  the increased  cost.
BUPA  accepted  it hadnt  made  things  as clear  as it should  have.  It said it would  stand  by the 
original  offer made,  but Mr D said it was too late. He said he was unable  to accept  the offer 
because  hed already  arranged  cover  through  his existing  insurer  - meaning  he was locked  
into an agreement  for another  year and unable  to cancel  it. BUPA  understood  and so agreed  to 
keep  the offer open  for a year.  It did this so that Mr D, when  his existing  policy  came  to an end 
in February  2019,  could  then move  to BUPA  and take up its original  offer.
Mr D initially  accepted  this, however,  he still wanted  BUPA  to cover  the increased  cost of his 
new policy  with the other  insurer.  He said this cost him an extra  £1,600  for the year.
BUPA  didnt  agree.  It said that Mr D didnt  give it enough  time to rectify  the problem  he
experienced  and so it felt the offer it made  was fair.
Our investigator,  at first, didnt  uphold  this complaint.  She said because  Mr Ds employees  
sought  personal  policies  with the previous  provider,  that Mr Ds company  had not suffered  any 
loss.  In fact, she highlighted  that Mr Ds company  was better  off. And so, she didnt  think  
BUPA  should  do anything  more  in respect  of this complaint.
However,  she later changed  her position  and upheld  this complaint.  Our investigator  said that 
upon  reflection,  she felt there  was enough  evidence  to persuade  her that BUPAs  mistake  
caused  the problem  initially  and suggested  it should  compensate  Mr D the increased  cost of 
insurance  for the year in question.  She also said there  was evidence  that Mr Ds company  was 
having  to cover  the increased  costs  for the personal  policies  and so felt this should  be 
considered  a consequential  loss affecting  the partnership.
BUPA  didnt  agree.  It made  a number  of arguments  why,  some  of which,  Ive summarised  
below.
It accepts  it made  an error  that impacted  Mr D personally  but reminded  us that 
BUPAs  relationship  was with the business  partnership  and not Mr D personally.  And 
therefore,  suggested  it would  be inappropriate  to consider  Mr Ds personal  loss here 
and;
It wasnt  given  a fair opportunity  to put things  right.
And so, its for me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Having  done  so, Im planning  on not 
upholding  Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Its not in dispute  that BUPA  made  an error  when  Mr D decided  to join it. I say that because  on 
9 February  BUPA  told Mr D it would  offer cover  for pre-existing  medical  conditions  and then,  on 
12 February,  when  he came  to move  the group  cover  over,  it said it would  not. But rather  than 
challenge  BUPA  at that moment,  Mr D decided  to re-engage  with his previous  insurer  and over 
the days  that followed,  this resulted  in him taking  out the more  expensive  personal  policy  with 
it.
Ref: DRN74399645It wasnt  until ten days  later,  on 23 February,  that Mr D complained  to BUPA  about  its 
decision  not to cover  the groups  pre-existing  medical  conditions.
The reason  Ive highlighted  this chronology  is because  BUPAs  main  argument  in response  to 
Mr Ds complaint  is that it didnt  have  enough  time to investigate  and rectify  the issue.  And so, 
Ive carefully  considered  this, and find it persuasive.
I think  this because  it took BUPA  a little over a week  to correct  its mistake  and reinstate  its 
original  offer to cover  the pre-existing  medical  conditions.  And so, had Mr D raised  his concerns  
sooner,  instead  of only engaging  with his previous  insurer,  I think  it likely  this would  have  been  
resolved  sooner  than it was.  This,  in turn, would  have  had a direct  impact  on Mr Ds ability  to 
leave  the more  expensive  policy,  without  penalty,  because  he would  have  been  within  its 
cooling  period.
And so, whilst  I agree  that BUPA  made  an error  initially,  I dont  think  itd be fair to ask it to 
cover  the increased  cost of Mr Ds premiums  for the year in question.  I say that because  Mr 
D didnt  take reasonable  steps  to limit the impact  of BUPAs  error.  Nor do I think  it 
reasonable  for BUPA  to pay the £30,000  compensation  suggested  by Mr D.
Ive considered  Mr Ds comments  about  how he arrived  at the above  figure.  In essence,  he 
suggested  that BUPAs  actions  have  left him in no other  position  than to stay with his previous  
insurer  for the next fifteen  years.  And so, the compensation  amount  hes put forward  would  
effectively  cover  the increased  costs  associated  with this. The reason  I disagree  with Mr D 
here is because  he doesnt  have  to stay with that insurer  and is free to move  about  the market  
and source  the right policy  for him. Further,  BUPA  said it would  keep  the offer open  to him at 
his next policy  renewal  year - so he couldve  still had the benefit  of that offer,  albeit  a year 
later.
In any event,  I also thought  about  whether  BUPAs  mistake  had any financial  detriment  on Mr 
Ds company.  And whilst  I can see how Mr D quantified  the £1,600  loss,  I should  highlight  that 
this is a personal  loss and not one that has impacted  the business.  He explained  to our 
investigator  that the employees  of the business  shouldered  the costs  for the new policies  and 
so theres  not a loss to the partnership.  Its because  of this, and the other  reasons  Ive 
explained,  Im planning  on making  no award  on this complaint.  I also thought  BUPAs  offer to 
effectively  keep  the opportunity  open  for Mr Ds business  a fair one.
my provisional  decision
Im planning  on rejecting  Mr Ds complaint.  Ill consider  any further  comments  by 5 
December  2019  before  I reach  my final decision.
Scott  Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7439964