K820x#14Complaint
Mr V complains that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited (AA) auto-renewed 
his roadside assistance policy against  his wishes, failed to update  their records and didnt 
correctly administer the cancellation process.  
Background
Mr V took out home insurance with AA in 2014.  With this policy  was a free one-year roadside 
assistance policy (for clarity Ill call this policy 1). 
Mr V moved address in early 2015  so cancelled his home insurance  just prior to its renewal. 
He said he told AA he was moving home, and that he didnt want  the roadside assistance 
policy renewed either. 
Later in 2015  Mr V took out a new AA roadside assistance policy (Policy 2). In 2019 he 
noticed AA were taking  two annual payments by direct debit. He asked them  why, and they 
said policy 1 hadnt  been cancelled and had auto-renewed every  year.  The address on 
policy 1 was his old address so policy 2 hadnt been recognised as being a duplicate when it 
was taken out.
AA cancelled policy 2 as they said this was the duplicate, offered to refund the premiums  he 
paid for policy  2 and transferred his updated details onto policy  1, which  continued. 
Mr V complained AA hadnt cancelled policy 1 originally when he told them he was moving  
and so had subsequently  taken his money  without  authority. He said AA had never sent him 
any policy documents for policy  1. He also complained that AA had cancelled policy 2 
against his wishes,  as this was the policy he wanted. He said they shouldve cancelled  
policy 1.
Mr V became frustrated  as he felt his complaint was being ignored. He tried to raise  a 
complaint through AAs social media, and felt he was being  fobbed  off and then lied to in 
their responses.
In their final response to his complaint,  AA said they had sent the renewal documents  for 
policy 1 to his original address as Mr V hadnt updated this, which is why he never  received 
them. They said they had sent them out first class and nothing  had been returned 
undelivered, so they had no reason to think they hadnt been  delivered correctly.  
Having looked  into it, AA found  no notes  had been made to say if Mr V had cancelled the 
policy or not, and his new address was not noted.  So, they agreed that they probably 
shouldve cancelled policy  1 in 2015.  They said they were  correct in cancelling  policy  2 as 
this was the correct  process to follow, allowing the original policy to continue. 
They said they had put Mr V financially  back in the position he wouldve been had they 
correctly cancelled policy 1 when he moved home in 2015, and his roadside  cover,  since  
that date, had been unaffected.
Ref: DRN71966152They also acknowledged they hadnt  dealt with the complaints  properly and apologised. 
They agreed that there had been  confusion and he had been given different answers at 
different times. They offered a total of £120  for the upset and inconvenience  they had 
caused Mr V. 
Mr V didnt accept their findings and brought a complaint to us. He also said he had never  
received any confirmation  from the AA of the cover he had under policy  1.
The investigator thought it was fair for AA to cancel policy 2 and transfer  the details onto 
policy 1. She also thought  AA had been fair in refunding  all the premiums  (plus interest)  paid 
by Mr V for policy 2, and those he paid for policy 1, between the time it shouldve been 
cancelled and when  policy  2 was taken out. She thought  this had put Mr V back  in the 
financial position he wouldve been in had they not made the error,  so she thought AA was 
fair in this resolution.
She also considered  the communication between Mr V and AA while the complaint was 
investigated, and the distress  Mr V had been  caused. She thought  the total of £120 paid by 
AA in recognition  of this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She also confirmed to 
Mr V she had seen confirmation  of his policy cover and that it was current.
Mr V didnt accept her view. He made  a number of points detailing his disagreement  and I 
shall summarise them  here:
AA had acknowledged that they shouldnt have continued his cover  after he phoned 
to cancel his home  insurance and told them he didnt want his roadside cover to 
continue, so they had admitted doing something wrong
AA refunded the premiums for the policy he wanted (policy  2), where  they shouldve  
cancelled and refunded the original policy (policy 1) that they allowed to continue  
against his wishes,  which was unlawful
He was never unaware  of policy 1, but was just unaware it had continued  after he 
had requested it to be cancelled
AA had not provided proof of delivery of the policy documents  despite asking them to 
do so, so he queried how he could trust they had posted  them as they said they had
He disagreed with the investigators  view that AA were right in their decision to 
cancel policy 2 and not policy 1
The investigator did not say the AA and its employees had been  dishonest,  ignored  
his complaint and had refused  to apologise,  and he felt they shouldve
The investigator had not said the AA had done anything  wrong,  as he hadnt updated 
his address. He had no reason  to do so as he had cancelled his policy
He had seen  no proof  that he had any AA cover  as they had never  sent him any
As he felt the investigators view was not based  on the facts of the case, he asked for the 
complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has made several detailed points in response  to the investigators view. I have looked 
at them  all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the 
courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused  on what  I consider  to be the heart of the 
Ref: DRN71966153matter, rather  than commenting on every issue in turn. I understand the importance of his 
complaints, so this isnt intended as a discourtesy  to Mr V. Rather it reflects  the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Having considered everything, I agree with the investigators view,  for broadly the same 
reasons. I understand Mr V will be disappointed by my decision, as AAs actions and 
treatment of him is clearly  an important  matter of principle for him. Ill explain why I have  
come to this conclusion.
Mr V had a home insurance policy with AA. He was also given  a year of free roadside 
assistance cover with this policy. There is no dispute that Mr V cancelled his home insurance 
policy before  it ended as he was moving home. AA continued his roadside assistance  policy, 
which they shouldnt  have, and I accept Mr V didnt receive his documents as they were sent 
to his old address.  
As Mr V thought policy  1 was cancelled at this point, he took out a new policy  (policy  2) a 
few months later,  registered at his new address. Unknown to him policy  1 continued to run 
and auto-renewed every  year. Mr V only noticed  this duplication around four years  later.
Ultimately, as the broker, AA shouldve  at least checked whether Mr V wanted to keep the 
roadside policy, when  he called to cancel his home  cover. And because they didnt, Mr V 
had a policy he wasnt aware of and so didnt use. So, it is fair that they refund this shortfall 
plus interest. I need to consider whether I think what theyve done to put this right is fair and 
reasonable.
To make good this error,  AA cancelled one of the policies. They said, as policy 1 had 
continued to run (albeit against Mr Vs knowledge or wishes),  policy  2 was actually the 
duplicate policy. So, AA decided  to cancel it and transfer the details of its cover onto 
policy 1. AA said this was their standard business  practice, as it ensured any loyalty  benefits 
already accrued on policy 1 wouldnt be lost as it had been running for longer.  I think  this 
was a fair and reasonable position to take, and actually benefitted Mr V.
As Mr V had been  paying for two policies, AA refunded all the premiums Mr V had paid for 
policy 2. They added  8% interest (minus 20% income tax as required by HMRC)  to this 
amount. As a gesture  of goodwill, they also refunded the cost of the yearly premiums  for the 
additional relay  cover which he hadnt needed  to use. The award of 8% simple interest 
reflects our services approach to compensation.
AA also refunded the pro-rata amount that Mr V paid for policy  1 between  the date he asked 
to cancel, and the when  the new policy was taken out. I havent seen the breakdown of this 
amount, but Ive estimated  it to be about  £20. Ive not seen anything  to suggest that 8% 
interest was added to this amount, and I think it shouldve been, as this is an out-of-pocket  
expense. However,  8% of approximately £20 is such a small amount I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to make  a direction of redress for it, given AA has already offered £120 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this matter has caused him. 
I think, ultimately, the refunds  provided,  along  with the goodwill repayment, was a fair and 
reasonable resolution and put Mr V back in the financial position  he wouldve been in had 
the error  not occurred. So, I do not require  AA to do anything more in this regard.
AA say they sent the letters and policy documents via the post and have provided us with 
copies. Clearly, I cannot say for certain  that they were  posted and delivered, so I have to 
Ref: DRN71966154decide, on the balance of probabilities, what I think most likely happened.  Our services long 
held approach is that if it can be shown that letters were probably sent by 1st class mail, then 
without evidence to say to the contrary, we accept that they were probably delivered as 
addressed, albeit to Mr Vs old address.  We would not expect businesses to provide proof  of 
delivery.
Ive not seen anything to make me think Mr V has been particularly distressed or 
inconvenienced by not receiving the letters, as he wasnt expecting  them  anyway. So, 
although I think it was an error that the AA made  and couldve avoided, I dont think it merits 
any award to Mr V for this particular aspect  of the complaint.
I do think, though,  that Mr V was distressed and inconvenienced as a result of the how AA 
handled his initial enquiry  and the subsequent complaints process.
AA have acknowledged their poor handling  of it, both by their social media team  and their 
customer services.  Having  read Mr Vs emails,  I can see how frustrated he was, and how he 
felt he was ignored or not listened  to. Mr V had to chase AA for answers several times. AA 
have apologised  to Mr V and have offered him a total of £120  compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  this has caused.  I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note Mr V says AA hasnt apologised  for the distress and inconvenience  theyve caused. 
But, in their final response AA have  apologised for their actions as a business,  as they are 
responsible for their employees,  so I wont be asking AA to do anything more.
During this investigation, AA have confirmed theyve sent a new membership  pack  to Mr V. I 
dont think AA need to do anything more  in relation to this complaint point.
My final decision
Automobile Association  Insurance Services Limited  has already offered to pay Mr V £120 for 
the distress and inconvenience  its caused.  It should pay this to him directly  if it hasnt  
already done so. Its also cancelled the policy it considered the duplicate  and refunded  the 
extra premiums Mr V paid. For the reasons Ive set out above, I think its taken  fair steps  to 
put things right. So, I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7196615