K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to lend her money.
background
Ms D took out 18 instalment loans with Sunny between  February  and December 2017.
Ms D says that she was stuck in a cycle of borrowing more money to repay previous loans. 
Ms D says that Sunny shouldve seen that she was struggling financially.
Ms D wants  Sunny to refund the interest  and charges that shes paid on the loans. Ms D
wants Sunny  to remove the loans from her credit file.
The adjudicator recommended Ms Ds should be upheld in part. In summary, he thought  that 
it was reasonable  of Sunny to agree loans one to five. But the adjudicator thought  Sunny 
shouldnt have agreed loans six to 18.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny refund all interest  and charges that Ms D had paid 
on loans six to 18. And the adjudicator said Sunny should remove any information  about 
loans six to 18 from Ms Ds credit file.
Sunny didnt agree with everything  that the adjudicator recommended but it offered to put 
things right for loans  1 to 4.
Ms D isnt willing to accept Sunnys offer so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms D could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
Ref: DRN77503132refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably to realise, that 
a consumer wont be able to make  their repayments  sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms D. It asked Ms D for 
details of her income  and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried  out checks on Ms Ds 
credit file.
loans one to five
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt unreasonable of Sunny to agree these loans 
based on the information it held about Ms D.
As Ms D hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation 
to loans one to five, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Ms Ds lending  with Sunny to see if there was a point 
at which  Sunny should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend 
more money to Ms D.
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ds case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan six. I say this because:
when Ms D took out loan six, this was the sixth loan in 4 months. Although  Ms D 
asked to borrow less than some  of the previous loans, shed been borrowing 
almost continually and wasnt  making any inroads  in to the amount that she 
owed.
from loan six onwards Ms D sometimes took out a new loan before repaying the 
previous loan. So Sunny shouldve seen that it was likely  Ms D had to borrow  
more to cover the hole left by repaying  each earlier loan. This meant that Ms Ds 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN77503133the loans were instalment loans, each with six month terms. But Ms D sometimes 
repaid her loan in the same month that shed  taken it out. This wasnt how 
instalment loans should usually work.  Even if Ms D hadnt  told Sunny about her 
financial difficulties, I think this pattern  of lending shouldve alerted Sunny to the 
likelihood that Ms D was having problems managing  her money. So I think that 
Sunny shouldve been concerned that Ms D might be borrowing elsewhere to 
repay loans.
I think that Ms D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing for loan 
six onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ds indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an 
extended period  of time.
the number  of loans,  combined with the total length of time Ms D had been  
borrowing from Sunny  was likely to have  had negative implications on her 
ability to access mainstream credit. This kept Ms D in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Ms Ds complaint about  loans six to 18
putting things right   what Sunny needs to do
 refund  all interest and charges that Ms D paid on loans six to 18;
 add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
 the number  of loans  taken from loan six onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six to 18 should be removed from 
Ms Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Sunny  to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Ms D a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed  above. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject 
my decision  before 18 November 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7750313