K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited unfairly  rejected  a theft claim he 
made under his motorcycle  insurance policy. 
background
Mr D bought a motorbike insurance policy with MCE through a comparison  website  in June 
2017. In May 2018 he made  a claim as his bike was stolen. 
MCE discovered that Mr D kept his bike in an underground car park overnight. It said 
because Mr D said his bike was kept in a garage  overnight, hed deliberately  misrepresented  
the facts when he bought  the policy. So MCE decided to cancel his policy as if it didnt exist, 
reject Mr Ds claim and keep the premium he paid.  
In February 2019  our investigator thought MCE had acted unfairly. He agreed  that Mr D had 
misrepresented where he kept his bike overnight. But he didnt think Mr D had done so 
deliberately. He thought Mr D had been  careless when he applied for the policy. The 
premium and excess Mr D would have  paid if hed selected car park  would have been 
higher. So the investigator thought MCE should  deal with Mr Ds theft claim on a 
proportionate basis. He recommended MCE pay a percentage  of the total claim equal  to the 
percentage of premium  Mr D actually  paid. And he thought it was fair for MCE to deduct the 
correct higher excess from the settlement  it paid Mr D for his theft claim. 
Mr D accepted the investigators view. MCE didnt agree. It said Mr D deliberately  
misrepresented the facts,  so it correctly avoided his policy. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly. MCE said that Mr D 
deliberately misrepresented the facts in order to buy his policy. MCE has placed  reliance on 
the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
and I have taken  account of the Act.
MCE has provided a screenshot of the key question Mr D was asked about  where  he kept 
his bike overnight  when he applied for the policy. The options Mr D had to choose from 
included garage, car park and locked  compound.  Mr D chose garage.  
Mr D kept his bike in a communal underground  car park overnight.  I think Mr D was asked a 
clear question, but he didnt choose  car park which I think was more  closely  suited to where 
he kept his bike.  So I think Mr D misrepresented the facts  here.  
Ref: DRN74734142Mr Ds policy  documents  also set out MCEs definition  of garage. So I think  MCE gave Mr D 
a further opportunity to check if the location  of where  he kept his bike overnight met the 
definition under the policy. 
MCE said it emailed Mr D along  with other  consumers in April 2018 to clarify  its definition of 
garage in more detail and to give them the opportunity to contact it if they were  in any 
doubt. It said Mr D opened the email  several times. So it said this supports its view that Mr D 
deliberately misrepresented the facts  as he was aware of the definition and didnt contact 
MCE in April 2018. 
But I dont think its fair or reasonable  for MCE to rely on this email. I think it was for MCE to 
be clear about its definition when Mr D bought the policy. And from its records,  Mr D opened 
the email once in April 2018. He then opened the email again after he made his claim to 
MCE. I dont think this shows  that Mr D acted recklessly when he applied  for the policy.
Mr D said he kept his bike parked securely between his car and a concrete wall in a 
residential gated security  patrolled underground parking  lot with CCTV. Hes very unhappy  
that MCE decided  he deliberately misrepresented where he kept his bike.  Mr D said he 
believed garage  was the most suitable description  for his location. He said hes chosen 
MCE as his insurer for the past seven years.
MCE needs to show  that Mr D acted in a reckless or deliberate  way when he answered the 
question about  where he kept his bike  in order to reasonably decide to cancel his policy  as 
if it never existed and keep the premium he paid. Having considered  Mr Ds reasons for 
choosing garage  as the overnight location,  I dont think  he answered the question  knowing 
his answer to be untrue  or that he didnt  care if it was misleading  or not. I think  he should 
have given more  care to his answer. 
So in line with CIDRA, I think MCE should apply  a proportionate approach in this case.  MCE 
has provided us with two quotes to show the difference in premium Mr D would  have paid if 
hed chosen car park.  So we know that MCE would have offered Mr D a policy   but on 
different terms. I therefore think MCE should deal with Mr Ds theft claim in line with the 
investigators recommendation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance  Company Limited 
to deal with Mr Ds theft claim by paying  a proportionate settlement as a percentage equal to 
the percentage of premium he paid for the policy.  I think  its fair for MCE to deduct  the 
correct higher excess based on the car park location from the settlement it pays Mr D. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7473414