K820x#14complaint
Mr Z says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a Select packaged bank account. 
background
Mr Z opened an account with Lloyds in 1993. Sometime between January 1997 and 
September 2001, the account  was upgraded to a Select  packaged account.  Mr Z says he 
didnt consent  to this. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and said they hadnt seen enough  to think the 
account was mis-sold.  Mr Z disagreed  so the account has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Zs complaint.
Having done so, I dont agree Mr Zs account was mis-sold. I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr Z so Ill explain my reasoning.  
Unsurprisingly, there isnt much evidence available for me to consider. Lloyds only has 
statements going back to September  2001 which isnt unreasonable  considering this was 
over 18 years ago. The statements show at that time the account was already a Select 
account but Lloyds internal system doesnt  show when the upgrade  occurred. The earliest  
indication we have  of Select  accounts being  available is January 1997, so Mr Z would have 
taken the Select account sometime between these dates. 
Where theres limited information,  I have to consider what I think  is most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. Mr Z says he didnt consent to taking out the Select account 
and only became aware that he had a packaged  account when he had a financial meeting  
for a mortgage in 2018. In order for me to agree with Mr Z, Id have to agree it was more 
likely that Lloyds fraudulently changed his account to a fee-paying  one without his 
knowledge or consent. While this is possible, I dont think its the most likely scenario.  Ill 
explain why.
Looking at the earliest account statements available, I can see there was only one entry per 
month with the code  of FEE that had the description account charge and this was the entry  
for the monthly account  fee. This was for the same amount  each month and I wouldve 
expected Mr Z to query this if he didnt think his account was fee-paying. On balance,  I think 
its more likely Mr Z agreed to take a fee-paying  packaged account but has since 
understandably forgotten due to the length of time since it was upgraded. And seeing  as he 
previously had a fee-free account,  I think  he wouldve  taken the Select account knowing he 
didnt have to. 
Mr Z has said Lloyds  didnt  give him a recommendation for the account, but Lloyds thinks  it 
did. I havent seen  anything that suggests a recommendation was made  so this is how Ive 
assessed the complaint. This means Lloyds didnt have to check  the account  was suitable 
for Mr Z, but it did have  to give him enough  information so he could make sure he wanted it. 
Ref: DRN72911112Around the time when the sale wouldve taken place, the account cost £4 per month. It 
included benefits  such as payment card protection, accidental death benefit, purchase  
protection and extended warranty. Also, prior to September 2001, Lloyds had an overdraft 
usage fee of £5, whereas  the Select account had a fee-free overdraft of up to £50. As the 
account fee for the Select  account was £4, if a consumer stayed within the £50 fee-free 
section of the overdraft  they avoided paying  the overdraft fee and saved  £1 each month. 
Its not possible for me to know what Mr Z was told when he was sold the Select account. 
But I think its likely Lloyds wouldve told him about the general benefits seeing  as it was 
trying to make the account sound  attractive to him. I cant see any reason why Mr Z couldnt 
have used the benefits, so I dont think better information about  the account  wouldve made  
him change  his mind  about taking it out.
Based on the very limited  information available to me, I think  its more likely RBS gave Mr Z 
a fair choice in taking  the account  and that he had an understanding  of what  it entailed. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7291111