K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1988. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen some of the paperwork  completed at the time of sale. In the mortgage 
application - section E, theres  an option to add PPI. The form asks if you wish to join 
the Scheme enter the amount of monthly benefit  you require this part of the form has 
been completed. Ive also then seen a separate PPI application  form where Mr H has 
signed separately to agree to take PPI. 
So with what  Ive seen,  I think Halifax made  it clear that Mr H had a choice about  
taking the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time alongside the 
nearest relevant policy document,  I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Halifax has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H and his representative have said, including what theyve 
said about Mr Hs sick pay. But based on the nearest relevant policy document,  this policy  
Ref: DRN79681312would have paid out for quite a bit longer  than Mr Hs full sick pay would have lasted.  For an 
accident or sickness claim the policy could have paid out for up to 24 months and up to 12 
months for an unemployment claim.
So given that the mortgage was a significant financial commitment  secured against Mr Hs 
home, I still think that the recommendation  to take PPI was suitable,  and these points  dont 
change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr H any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. MR H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr H any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7968131