K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy a claim he tried to make under his National  House-Building Council (NHBC)  
building warranty has been  declined.
background
Mr R noticed tiles on his roof had become loose and were  lifting and made a claim to NHBC, 
the provider of his building warranty.
NHBC inspected the roof and found some  tiles had lifted due to missing  tail rivets. But NHBC 
said the cost to repair them was below the minimum amount needed for a valid claim, so 
they didnt accept the claim.
Mr R complained to NHBC who maintained the decision  to decline the claim, so he 
approached this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He acknowledged there were issues  with the 
tiles, but concluded the cost to repair fell below  the minimum amount needed for a valid 
claim. Therefore, he didnt  think NHBC had acted unfairly by declining the claim on this 
basis.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint.
Mr Rs building warranty is a policy which runs for ten years. Different cover  applies 
depending on when  the claim is made during the ten-year period. 
Mr R noticed issues with his roof tiles and reported this to NHBC within  years  three  to ten of 
the policy cover. This meant the claim was made under Section Three,  and the policy terms 
say:
We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,000 Indexed, of putting right any 
Damage in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, maisonette  or flat and 
its garage or other  permanent outbuildings or its Common Parts:
g) roof coverings
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Physical damage to the Home caused  by a Defect.
And Defect is defined  as:
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone  
employed by or acting  for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance  supporting an 
Ref: DRN70532812NHBC Requirement does  not amount to a Defect  if the performance  required by the 
NHBC Requirement is achieved by other  means.
For a valid claim  to be made, there needs  to be Damage  to a listed area  in this case  roof 
coverings. The Damage  needs to be caused by a Defect. And the cost of putting right that 
damage needs to exceed the minimum claim value  (MCV) of £1,000  indexed.  
Indexed in the policy is defined as:
Indexed
Increased to allow for the effects of inflation.  Any amount referred to as Indexed was 
set on 1 October 2004 and the increase is applied on 1 April each year in line with 
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors House Re-building  Cost Index. The 
figure that applies to a claim is the one that is in force  when the claim is first notified 
to NHBC.
At the time Mr R went ahead with the claim,  the minimum  claim value was £1,630. 
NHBC carried out an inspection of the roof and concluded that the displacement and curling 
of the tiles was due to fibre cement slates being susceptible to thermal movement and 
climatic changes, which  wasnt  considered  a defect. And whilst this had happened to tiles 
around the valley, they were correctly fixed with one rivet as they were cut.
But they found that on a small number of tiles, tail rivets were  missing which had caused  the 
tiles to lift. Whilst it was unclear what had caused them  to be missing,  ultimately  NHBC 
considered this as Damage caused  by a Defect under the policy.  So these two parts of the 
Section Three claim requirements were  met.
However, whilst  there was Damage caused  by a Defect, only a small number of tiles were  
affected by the missing  tail rivets. The cost to repair these damaged tiles was calculated  as 
£1,274.27. 
NHBC has provided a breakdown of how they calculated the repair cost of £1,274.27 and 
this appears reasonable for fixing the tiles with missing rivets, securing them back  into place. 
NHBC allowed for half a day to carry out these repairs. Even if they allowed for a full day, the 
MCV still wouldnt have been reached. As the cost of repairing the damaged tiles falls below 
the £1,630 MCV required  under the policy  for a valid claim, NHBC hasnt acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim for this reason.
Mr R has said that NHBC  hasnt accounted for rectifying the defect with all the tiles across 
the entire roof, and the method of construction is negligent. However, only a small number of 
tiles have been affected by the missing  rivets.  Under Section Three of the policy,  where 
Mr Rs claim is being  considered, the policy covers fixing  the damage  caused by a defect.  As 
there isnt damage  to the rest of the roof, as the rivets remain in place, there isnt a valid 
claim for the rest under  Section  Three of Mr Rs policy.
Mr R has also said his neighbours roof has had repairs carried  out. But NHBC has told Mr R 
in their final response that additional defects were  identified  on another property  which 
meant more extensive  repairs were  required.  NHBC said Mr Rs property  isnt suffering from 
the same  defects. 
Ref: DRN70532813However, I cant take the neighbours  claim into account when looking at Mr Rs claim and 
complaint as each  case is considered on its own merits.  What  Ive considered is whether 
NHBC has fairly applied the terms of Mr Rs policy in relation to his claim, and in my view 
they have.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Callum Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7053281