K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a mortgage in 1992.  The mortgage was 
jointly held. 
background
The policy provided  cover  against the risk of accident or sickness preventing  Mr or Mrs W 
from working and of unemployment. Mr and Mrs W each had a benefit amount of £250.  
The complaint was looked at by an adjudicator who thought that the complaint should be 
upheld. B&B didnt  agree  with the adjudicators findings. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider. I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 9 April 
2019, a copy of which is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was minded to partially uphold  Mr and Mrs 
Ws complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 9 May 2019.  At the time of writing  both parties told us that they 
had received the provisional decision and B&B said they had no further submissions they 
wished to make. Mr and Mrs W have made some submissions they wished me to consider 
before I issued my final decision. So I am proceeding  to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I think this complaint should be upheld  in part  Ill explain 
why.
I think B&B most likely made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it. I say that because  B&B has provided the actual documentation from 
the time of the sale. In the PPI section of the mortgage application form, Mr and Mrs W were 
asked to state Yes  or No to whether they wanted to have PPI. The form has a Yes in it. 
And the rest of that section was completed including the benefit  amount and how much 
cover Mr and Mrs W wanted  individually. Subsequently, Mr and Mrs W completed an 
application form for the cover, which was separate to the application form for the mortgage,  
and they signed their agreement to its contents. So, having considered all the submissions  
made in this case, it seems most likely  that Mr and Mrs W did choose the cover and did so 
knowing they had a choice about it  although  I can understand why they cant remember  
this now, many years later
This policy was applied for by both Mr and Mrs W who each indicated  an interest in the 
cover provided by the policy. In this case they chose that each of them would  be covered for 
half of the monthly  cover  amount.  And in this particular policy the cover  provided was distinct  
for each  person and the premium and cover was severable. I say that because Mrs W had a 
Ref: DRN70647392claim on the policy that lasted for a full 12 months.  On completion of that claim, the 
insurance administrators wrote to Mrs W in a letter dated 13 September  1995 and said,
Following the final monthly  payment on your Payment Protection  Policy, the Policy has now 
been cancelled.
Due to this amendment  the monthly subscription  payable on your mortgage account 
should be reduced by £16.88 with effect from your next repayment.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank  you for your past custom and hope to be 
of service to you in the future.
Mrs W was not a party to the policy that continued  after this time.  So whilst Mr and Mrs W 
made a joint application for a mortgage and a joint application for PPI, I have considered that 
the cover  they each  had was distinct,  separate and severable. 
B&B thinks  it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W initially  couldnt 
recall if they had received advice or not and subsequently they thought  advice was given.  
Ive seen no clear evidence that the policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs W. So, 
because of this and because it makes no difference  to the outcome of this case,  I have 
assessed this case as if B&B sold the policy without  making a recommendation to Mr and 
Mrs W. So it didnt  have to check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs W. But it did have to 
make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Did B&B meet Mr Ws information needs?  
The information B&B gave  Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it couldve been. 
But based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time I dont think  that better 
information would have put Mr W off the policy. 
I say that because it seems Mr W was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover.  And Ive considered that Mr 
and Mrs W told us that Mr W had sick pay but they could not remember how much it was. 
They also told us that they had no savings  they could have relied on. Mr and Mrs W did tell 
us about a mortgage endowment they had, but the benefits of such a policy were designed 
to help repay the mortgage amount eventually, and provide  life cover throughout its term. 
So, it wouldnt necessarily have been  available to them as support in the event Mr W was 
too ill to work, or if he lost his job. This PPI policy could have paid out for up to 24 months at 
the point of sale (12 months for unemployment  from April 1992 and 12 months for accident 
and sickness from 1993). A successful claim would have paid out if Mr W was too ill to work 
for a long time and would have done  so in addition  to any sick pay arrangements  Mr W may 
have had. And a successful claim would have paid out if Mr W lost his job. So, I think the 
policy would have been useful to them if something  went wrong. So, considering all of the 
above, I dont  think better  information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr W off 
taking out the cover.
Did B&B meet Mrs Ws information needs?  
I do not think that B&B ensured Mrs W was in a position to make  a properly informed choice 
because I think that Mrs Ws employment status would have made  it hard to claim under the 
terms of the policy, most likely. I say this because Mrs W has told us that she was working 
on a fixed term contract  at the time of the sale. 
Ref: DRN70647393There is no language  on the mortgage  application  form or on the PPI application form about 
the terms that apply  to people on a fixed term contract. It has not been made clear how the 
representative was supposed to position  this information with a consumer, if at all. And its 
not clear what documentation would have  been available  to Mr and Mrs W at the time of 
making the decision to take the policy out. 
B&B provided a policy document that explained  that the terms that apply state  that 
unemployment cover  is not provided if the unemployment results from the expiry of a fixed  
term or temporary contract  of employment. So it seems that Mrs W would have not been  
able to claim for unemployment benefit  when she reached the end of her contract. I think this 
is something that she wouldve thought important.
The term is found in the policy document that B&B has provided. It seems most likely  this 
was provided after they applied for the policy.  So its not clear that they relied on this much  
at the time of purchase.  And even  if the policy was in their possession at the time of the sale, 
the term that applied would only have  been  discovered through a close reading of the 
document. The term can be found  on page seven of a closely worded ten page document.  
But this term was a significant one and needed  to be sufficiently highlighted to Mrs W. 
So, having  looked at all the submissions  made  in this case,  I do not think  B&B has 
demonstrated that it made clear that there may be restrictions to when  a person could claim 
for unemployment if they were working on a fixed term contract. So I dont  think  Mrs W was 
given enough  information about the policy when she decided to take it out. 
I think that if Mrs W knew about the terms for workers on fixed term contracts she wouldve 
thought she was only likely to benefit from part of the policy and wouldve thought the policy 
expensive because of that. So I dont think she wouldve  taken it out if properly informed.
I think that the policy was mis-sold to Mrs W and B&B needs to do something to put things  
right. But for the reasons I gave above I consider  that the policy  was severable. So I think  
that any redress that is payable in this case in respect of the information  failing that affected 
Mrs W, should be based solely on those  parts  of the premium that provided her cover  for the 
period of time she was covered by the policy. 
what the business should  do to put things right
B&B should  put Mrs W in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and B&B should:
Pay Mrs W the amount she paid each month for the PPI that covered her.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. If that means that no loss has been  
experienced by Mrs W, then B&B would not need to make  any payment. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires B&B to take off tax from this interest.  B&B must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN70647394my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to partially  uphold the complaint brought  by Mr and 
Mrs W. And I intend to direct Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay Mrs W compensation in 
accordance with the calculation set out above.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered 
the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because  I dont think  I need  to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
Mr and Mrs W have  made  some  comments for me to consider. Mr and Mrs W said that B&B 
should have provided information  to enable them to find the cover they wanted more cheaply  
elsewhere. That was not one of B&Bs responsibilities in the sale. 
Mr and Mrs W complained that the premium  was added to the borrowing and incurred 
interest. Mr and Mrs W were sold a regular premium policy  which was not added to the 
borrowing in the way they suggested. Mr and Mrs W also complained that the policy would 
have ended before  the mortgage.  Ive been shown no evidence  that supports that notion.  
These points do not lead me to change  my mind about the outcome of this case.  In the 
absence of any further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original 
findings as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint  and I direct Bradford & Bingley Plc to calculate  any redress in accordance 
with the calculation set out above. If having done  so, no redress  is payable, then I make no 
further award against Bradford & Bingley Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 12 July 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7064739