K820x#14Complaint
Miss Ks complaint is about  a public and products liability (PPL) policy she asked  Hiscox  
Underwriting Limited to reinstate  in July 2018.
Miss K says Hiscox failed to reinstate the policy when she asked  them to which caused her 
embarrassment and inconvenience.
Background
Miss K had the benefit  of a PPL policy which was placed in hibernation. In 2018 Miss K 
called Hiscox to request the policy  be removed  from this state  and be made  fully active.  
Eight months later Miss K discovered the policy hadnt been  reinstated.  As a result she 
contacted Hiscox who accepted a mistake  had been made.  As a consequence Hiscox 
reinstated the policy, backdating cover to when it shouldve been  in place. It also waived  the 
policy premiums for the period it had failed  to place Miss K on cover  and gave her an 
additional month of cover  without cost. 
Miss K is unhappy with the compensation Hiscox have offered. She says Hiscox actions 
caused her great embarrassment and inconvenience so they should fund the remainder of 
her insurance premium up to September  2019  to compensate  her for this.
Our investigator considered Miss Ks complaint and concluded that Hiscox had done enough 
to compensate her for their mistake. Miss K doesnt  agree so the matter has been passed to 
me to decide. 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  Miss Ks 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Where a business has done something wrong,  we usually direct it to do whats  necessary to 
put things right. In this case,  if Hiscox  had failed to backdate cover in the way that they had, 
Id direct them to ensure  she was on cover from the time she requested  it.  So Im satisfied 
that Hiscox did what Id expect them to by providing  cover for the period theyd initially failed 
to put in place.
The dispute  here is about the level of compensation Miss K is due for their failure  to put 
cover in place when they should have. When considering awards  of compensation we look 
at the impact  an insurers actions have had on a policyholder. In this case  Miss K has said 
Hiscox actions caused her great  embarrassment  with her employer because  she was being 
forwarded email reminders  regarding this issue. She feels this undermined her integrity. In 
addition Miss K says she had to chase Hiscox by making numerous phone calls and sending  
numerous emails during  her working hours to address the lack of cover.
Ive thought about what Miss K has said and the fact that Hiscox  have waived  the premium  
applicable to nine months worth  of cover. I appreciate that it must have been  inconvenient 
for Ms K to have to pursue this issue and explain the situation  to her employer- but I also 
think that Hiscox have  acted fairly  by waiving the premiums for the period they have. I say so 
because Miss K is still on cover for that period and wed usually say a consumer should pay 
Ref: DRN74286652for the benefit  of any cover they receive. Because of this I dont think  its reasonable to ask 
Hiscox to waive the policy premiums  for another five months.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.  
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7428665