K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) have discriminated against  him 
because of his age and have therefore offered him unfair credit terms with a shorter  lending 
period and higher interest.
background
Mr P entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Advantage  in September  2017  to fund a 
used car. Thirteen months into the agreement he complained  to them.  He said theyd 
discriminated against him because of his age and that, as a result,  theyd only provided a 
two year term and he also said theyd not assessed his credit  worthiness correctly.
Advantage didnt  agree.  They explained  that they were entitled to set their own lending 
criteria and Mr P seemed to be content with the credit and terms hed been  provided with for 
at least the first 13 months.  They noted  that hed taken several days  to review the credit 
application before  signing  it and thought this demonstrated hed given it due consideration. 
They said his credit rating wasnt strong at the time and would have made  it difficult for him 
to get credit  elsewhere.  And having  reviewed his complaint they didnt think  theyd done 
anything wrong. They  didnt think there  was any foundation for Mr Ps complaint theyd been 
ageist.
But Mr P was still dissatisfied and he referred his complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
considered the evidence.  She explained  that it was not this services  responsibility to handle  
disputes about discrimination  that was for the courts to deal with. But she said we could 
consider whether Advantage had been  fair and reasonable  when dealing  with Mr Ps credit 
application. She explained  that she hadnt identified  anything  unusual in their approach.  She 
understood that Mr P preferred a longer term but she noted  hed taken time to think over the 
deal and she thought it reasonable to suggest  he could have asked about another  deal or 
talked to other lenders in the interim. And she was content that, had the deal proven 
unacceptable, Mr P had been able to terminate it within the first 30 days. She was satisfied 
that Advantage had carried out the usual credit checks and risk assessment and she didnt 
think there was evidence that the credit application  had been  assessed solely on Mr Ps age. 
So she didnt think Advantage needed to take any further action.
But Mr P disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest that Advantage have done anything wrong 
here. I know  Mr P feels strongly about  the issue and will be disappointed. So please let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about, it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN76522072Mr P thinks  that Advantage have discriminated against him because  of his age. Its not for 
this service to consider  whether  a business has breached the Equality Act 2010. Such 
issues are best dealt with by the courts. But I am able to consider  whether Advantage have  
been fair and reasonable when considering  his credit  application.
Its for Advantage  to decide the criteria they apply when making lending decisions.  They  may 
use a variety of tools to do so and some lenders are prepared to take more  risks than others.  
Mr Ps credit  score wasnt strong when he applied for credit with Advantage. I can see they 
referred to this in their response to him and it was obviously one of the issues they 
considered when only approving credit over two years and at a high interest rate. Its 
therefore clear they hadnt just considered his age, and Ive not been provided with 
information to suggest this was an unusual or unfairly limited  assessment of credit  
worthiness.
I can also see that Mr P took some  time before he considered whether  to sign up to the deal 
and that he was given the requisite cooling  off period within  which he could have looked for 
alternative deals  or terminated the one he had. So I dont think  Advantage  have been  unfair  
here either, and I dont  think  I have evidence that Advantage  has done anything  wrong or 
need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7652207