K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  for the refund of a deposit he paid for a car hired abroad.   
background
Mr C says he hired a car abroad but wasnt  refunded the deposit by the hirer as promised. 
And he says its created  a fraudulent document showing he hired  a separate  vehicle which 
he says he didnt. He wants Nationwide to refund the deposit he paid to the hire company.
Nationwide said in its final response that Mr C had previously raised a chargeback request 
which was declined. Its also declined his claim for a refund under section 75. The first hire 
agreement was for an Audi and contains  Mr Cs full credit card number and personal 
information. And a chip and pin payment was made  for it. But the second hire agreement  for 
a Corvette is in Mr Cs friends name, shows a different  credit  card number to Mr Cs and 
displays the proof of the refundable deposit.  And theres no evidence Mr C paid for this 
deposit. Nationwide hasnt made  an error.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
To pursue a section 75 claim there must  be an unbroken  chain between  the debtor 
(Mr C), the creditor (Nationwide) and the supplier (the car hire company). Here there 
isnt.
For Mr Cs section 75 claim to be successful he wouldve  had to have  used his 
Nationwide credit card to pay the deposit on the hire agreement for the Corvette. But 
the agreement  noting the refundable deposit  for the rental  of the Corvette is in the 
name of Mr Cs friend and Mr C isnt named on it. In addition  the friends credit card 
number is the only one noted  on that agreement.
So here the relevant contract is between  Mr Cs friend and the car hire company. 
This creates another  link in the chain. As a result there is no debtor-  creditor-supplier  
relationship and its not possible  for her to hold Nationwide  responsible for Mr Cs 
section 75 claim.
Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says his evidence is 
conclusive. Hes reiterated  that fake documents have been  provided. He hired the Corvette 
car alongside his friend. He paid part of the deposit. The original documents show the 
correct parties, signatures, car registrations and credit card details.  Theres  also confirmation  
he was a joint driver and had paid part of the deposit.  
Nationwide has highlighted a large number of inconsistencies it says are apparent  in what  
Mr C has said and the evidence hes provided.  In summary it questions the changes  
apparently made to the invoices, why a refund wasnt  requested  from the car hire company  
and says theres no evidence supporting Mr Cs statement that he tried to resolve things with 
the car hire company.  
 
Ref: DRN79574982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. Mr C makes his 
complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which in certain circumstances 
gives a consumer an equal right to claim  against  the supplier of a service or the provider of 
credit, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Mr C alleges some of the documentation  has been altered by the hire company and is fake 
and fraudulent. And hes questioned the information about hiring two cars and the 
information recorded on the paperwork. He says the car he rented had a refundable deposit 
and he paid for at least part of it on his Nationwide card. He also now says correct 
paperwork is available showing he was a joint driver and party to the agreement. 
Nationwide has highlighted and questioned inconsistencies in what Mr C has said and the 
evidence hes provided.
It isnt for us to investigate  or prove whether documents are genuine or fake or whether a 
fraud has been committed. What I must consider  is whether Nationwide has acted fairly on 
the available  information when dealing with and declining Mr Cs section 75 claim.
Despite what Mr Cs said theres  nothing  to prove which paperwork is fake or genuine. Or if 
any or which documents have been fraudulently created or altered. And there appears to 
originally to have  been two car hire agreements  showing two cars being  rented. 
The problem for Mr C in making his section 75 claim is that the agreement which  bore all his 
details didnt mention a refundable deposit.  
In this case theres documentation  showing that the agreement with the refundable deposit  
related to a Corvette car that was hired  by Mr Cs friend and it set out that persons credit 
card details. It doesnt mention Mr C or his card details. The other agreement  - which 
documents correctly  Mr Cs personal  details, driving  licence number and credit card 
information - showed Mr C hired  an Audi which he paid for with a chip and pin payment. And 
there wasnt a refundable deposit. 
Mr C has said fake documentation  has been  produced. And he now says theres 
documentation showing  he was a party to the agreement hiring  the Corvette and that he paid 
some of the refundable deposit  referred  to in it. 
To successfully make  a section 75 claim Mr C must establish that theres an unbroken chain 
between himself as the debtor, Nationwide as the creditor and the car hire company as 
supplier. But some of the documentation  in this case suggests otherwise as the agreement  
shows Mr Cs friend  would  be the debtor and the other credit  card company would be the 
creditor.
I also have to agree with Nationwide  that there are considerable  inconsistencies in the 
evidence provided  in this case. And theres  conflicting information about what  happened.  
Theres also an absence of proof that the documentation from the hire company was 
changed or of what is genuine, fake or fraudulent.
 
Ref: DRN79574983Taking everything into account  Im not persuaded on balance that Mr C has established in 
this case the necessary  debtor creditsupplier  relationship required for him to make a 
successful claim  under  section 75. And as such I think  Nationwide  has acted  fairly  and 
reasonably by declining his claim under section  75 for a refund of any deposit he paid.
I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling  and frustration but I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7957498