K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined 
a claim under their home insurance  policy for damage caused by a water leak.
background
Mr and Mrs W made a claim to LV in July 2018  because the flooring in their living  room  and 
hall seemed to be damp. They  said theyd noticed  that their kitchen floor was damp in 
December 2017  but it had seemed to dry out after being mopped. They also said theyd 
noticed further dampness in April 2018 and asked a plumber to investigate  as a favour.  The 
plumber didnt find a leak but recommended that a cold-water  feed pipe serving the kitchen 
should be lagged  to prevent condensation. Mr and Mrs W did that.
LV sent an agent to investigate. They found that a dishwasher pipe was leaking.  
LV said that the leak had been ongoing for some time and should have been noticeable. It 
declined the claim  for damage caused by the water  leak because it said the policy didnt 
cover damage which happened  gradually.
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
thought there was enough evidence to suggest  Mr and Mrs W should  have  been  aware  that 
water was leaking and causing damage to their home, prior to the claim being made in July 
2018. 
As Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree, the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy covers them for damage  caused by water  leaks  but there  is a general 
exclusion in the policy for a claim arising from anything that happens gradually.
Some damage by its nature happens gradually. A leak from a dishwasher pipe is something  
that can go unnoticed for some time. With the benefit of hindsight its now clear  that 
Mr and Mrs Ws dishwasher pipe was probably  leaking  from December  2017  to July 2018.  
So strictly speaking LV was entitled under the policy terms to decline the claim.
But I wont automatically say that the insurer treats the customer  fairly  by relying on the 
exclusion to decline the claim  I take a second step. I also consider whether the consumer 
should have been aware of the damage  occurring.
The loss adjuster spoke to the plumber whod visited the property previously. He confirmed 
the visit might have taken  place in April 2018.  He said hed been  asked  to attend because 
Mrs W had described  the kitchen floor as squelching  when  they walked on it. Mr W says 
the use of that word  doesnt necessarily mean there would have been a lot of water  present. 
I disagree. I think there would have  to be quite a lot of water under laminate  flooring for it to 
make an audible sound when walked upon.  
Ref: DRN71182942The plumber told LV hed found  an internal  cold-water pipe that was unlagged and covered 
in condensation. He considered this to be the issue without making further investigations. 
Id expect Mr and Mrs W to keep an eye on the damage after theyd lagged  the pipe as 
recommended by the plumber to see whether this resolved the problem. I dont think it was 
reasonable for them to wait about  another three  months before contacting  LV.
LVs agent  reported  as well as the laminate flooring in the kitchen, utility room, lounge  and 
hallway being  damaged,  there were signs of damp  on the walls with what appeared to be 
long-term fungal growth. Ive seen photos showing  paint blistering on the walls and black 
mould on the flooring which support this description.
LVs loss adjuster  said:
As the leak had gone unattended to for so long, water has travelled beneath the laminate of 
the kitchen and spread to the hallway and the lounge.  There  is evidence  of damp to the walls 
at the lower section  of the hallway, and the laminate flooring in these  areas has buckled to a 
significant extent.
The extent  of the damage to the flooring and walls, the fact that the floor was squelching 
and the spread of water  under the floor from the kitchen to the lounge  and hallway  all 
suggest to me that Mr and Mrs W should  reasonably have known at an earlier  stage and not 
long after April 2018 that the damage  was happening. I think its fair to assume that if theyd 
taken action at that point,  the damage  would probably have been less. In the light of this, I 
dont think LV treated them unreasonably  in relying on the exclusion for gradual  damage  to 
decline their claim. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118294