K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
background
Ms M opened a store card account in a shop in 2002. At the same time,  she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Ms Ms card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase protection  insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Ms told us that she never  discussed  the PPI with anyone, and that all she 
remembers is being asked if she was interested in opening  a store  card account.  Shes  
also said that no one told her she didnt have to take out the policy, and that it was made 
to sound like part and parcel of the credit. 
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Ms application form for the store  card. It includes a section 
headed Protecting  your Account . It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover (a form of PPI), and it continues  Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly  premiums until further  notice.  Theres  a space to sign,  with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant required Account Cover. Ms M signed specifically to indicate 
that she wished  to take the cover.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that Ms M would have realised  that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. And I think she decided to take the cover, knowing that she had a 
choice  although I can understand why she may no longer remember  this, so many  
years later.
FICL didnt advise  Ms M to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. But it did need  to make  sure it gave  Ms M enough information to enable  
her to decide  for herself if she wanted  PPI, knowing what  alternative means  shed have 
had of making her monthly repayments  if she was unable  to work.
Ref: DRN78196242I accept  that its possible the information FICL gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have  been. But I think she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover , even if shes understandably forgotten  that now. Based on 
what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Ms M was eligible for the policy.  
And Ive seen  nothing to suggest that it was unaffordable for her.
Its true that Ms Ms told us that shed have been  entitled to at least six months pay from 
her employer  at the time if shed been  off sick. But if shed made a successful  claim on 
the policy for accident, sickness  or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 
15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would  have  done  this each month until 
her credit  agreement ended, or she returned  to work, or the outstanding balance  at the 
time of her claim  had been repaid - whichever was the earliest.
So the PPI policy would potentially have covered Ms M for longer than shed have been 
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
she received from her employer, allowing her to use those to cover  other  day-to-day  
expenses. 
I acknowledge that Ms Ms told us her partner could have helped  with her store card 
repayments if necessary.  But circumstances can change,  and I cant be sure that Ms Ms 
partner would have  been in a position to help her if the need  had arisen. So taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful for Ms M.
Based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Ms M doesnt appear 
to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example,  
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So taking everything 
into account, Im not convinced that better information about  the PPI would have put 
Ms M off taking  it out. This means  I dont think shes lost out as a result  of anything that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7819624