K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with STARTLINE  
MOTOR FINANCE  LIMITED (SMF)  has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr P took receipt of a used car in February 2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with SMF. At the point the car was supplied to him it had completed 
just less than 38,000  miles. The car was first registered in 2013.
Mr P has experienced several issues with the vehicle.  Our adjudicator  detailed  these issues 
in the view he provided in April 2019 but a brief summary would include:
in April 2018 the clutch failed. Mr P says that the slave  cylinder needed replacing but 
SMF say the garage that repaired it have explained  the clutch was ripped out of 
centre and that Mr P was advised not to drop the clutch  from a standing  start in 
future.
the alloy wheels  have needed to be refurbished. SMF say that the alloys  have now 
been repaired satisfactorily but note that the repairer suggested the cause was 
excessive braking which had resulted in the brake pads  overheating and burning out. 
The debris had melted  onto the alloys and damaged  them.
the engine  stopped  working in July 2018.  A lack of compression on the third cylinder 
has been identified  and the car is no longer driveable. Two garages that the 
dealership asked to take a look at these  problems suggested  that the lack of 
compression was probably  caused by over revving and the car having been  driven  
too hard. However, Mr P has commissioned two independent views neither of which 
goes so far as to suggest the damage  was caused by driving style.
SMF have refused  to allow Mr P to reject  the car. Theyve explained that three separate  
garages have commented  on damage being  caused  by excessive driving. They  dont think 
theres evidence  the faults Mr P has complained of were present at the point the car was 
supplied to him, when  the quality of the vehicle was their responsibility.
Mr P therefore referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his view. 
He was persuaded, by the reports SMF  had relied on, that the damage was more likely to be 
due to wear and tear rather than to a fault that was present at the point of supply. He noted 
that Mr P had provided an engineers  report but also noted that that report hadnt suggested 
the fault was there from the beginning. He thought the car would not have been able to cover  
the mileage it had since Mr P took receipt of it, if it had faults with the engine  when it was 
supplied. So he didnt think there was a reason for SMF to support the cars rejection.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators view and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr P so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN73312612Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr P. The car here 
was around four and a half years old and had travelled almost 38,000 miles when  supplied  
so I would expect  it to experience some wear and tear.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask SMF to put this right.  
But SMFs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to suggest the engine was faulty  at the point of 
supply. Mr P has spent a lot of time detailing his complaint and providing evidence  from 
experts to support  his assertion that the fault with the engine was present or developing at 
the point of supply. I was very grateful for his detailed submissions but Im afraid they 
havent convinced  me that, on balance, there is evidence  the fault that now exists  was 
present when the car was supplied  to him.
I say that because:
whilst  both of the reports  provided by Mr P identify a fault with the third piston. 
Neither of them  is able to confirm the fault was likely to be present at the point of 
supply and they both suggest  a further strip down of the vehicles engine is required.
the second independent  inspection provided  by Mr P does go so far as to say the  
vehicle has covered 5,325 miles  (since supplied)  and it appears unlikely at this stage 
to be a pre-existing defect. I dont think this supports Mr Ps assertion that the fault 
was there from the beginning although  I accept that this isnt a definitive  statement.
there are several reports  from several different garages that suggest the vehicle may 
have been driven harshly. Whilst I accept these companies may not be seen as truly 
independent I think there is persuasive evidence here of faults  being  attributable  to 
harsh driving style i.e.
Ref: DRN73312613othe company  who refurbished  the alloy wheels said front  wheels (damaged) 
through excessive  braking;
oa garage who were asked to look at the engine  problem  said they suspected  
over revving and excessive driving and a further  garage  said they suspected 
over revving and piston damage;
ocomments from the dealership suggested  the clutch damage was due to 
dropping the clutch and they advised Mr P not to do this from a standing start.
Mr P had completed more than 5,000  miles in the car when the engine  failed and I 
think its likely there would have  been  signs of failure beforehand if this was an issue  
that was developing at the point the car was supplied to him.
So Im persuaded  that it is most likely  the faults Mr P now complains of were  not present  or 
developing at the point of supply.
Ive also considered whether the car Mr P has had receipt of can be considered  to have 
been suitably  durable. Ive done this because the relevant legislation suggests this is another  
issue I should consider  when  deciding  whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point  
it was supplied. I can see that there have been  some problems with the clutch;  alloy wheels 
and with the engine but as there is so much third party information to suggest  that harsh 
driving may have been the cause  of these problems, and as there is limited evidence  to 
suggest otherwise,  I am not persuaded there  is sufficient evidence this car has not been 
durable.
Overall, I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to ask SMF to take any further  action.
I note that Mr P has questioned whether the car should have been repaired  under warranty.  I 
can see that our adjudicator has already  explained the position on this but for completeness 
I would explain that, as the warranty wasnt financed  through an agreement  with SMF, Mr P 
will need  to address any concerns he has about  it to the warranty provider.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above    I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before19 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7331261