K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains on behalf of I, a limited company, that National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
blocked the companys account.
background 
Mr S applied to NatWest for a personal  account in August  2017.  His company, I, already 
held a business account with the bank.
While processing his application, NatWest came  across  his details on its fraud systems. As a 
result, it declined his application. And as he was Is sole company director,  it restricted  the 
companys account  on 20 August, suspended its access to online  banking  and sent it a 14-
day notice to close letter.
Mr S appealed against NatWests decision to close the companys account  on 29 August. It 
reviewed its decision and discovered he was on its fraud systems because  a protective 
marker - one used  for victims of identity theft - had been registered against his name.  It 
subsequently lifted the restrictions on the account  on 31 August.  However,  Natwest forgot  to 
reactivate the online banking.
Mr S didnt know the restriction had been  lifted.
In the meantime, NatWest  apologised to Mr S for its original error.  But Mr S remained 
unhappy with the service  hed received and brought his complaint to this service. 
After our adjudicators intervention, NatWest agreed  to pay £750  for the inconvenience 
caused to the company by its actions.  Our adjudicator  considered this was a fair and 
reasonable sum to settle this dispute.
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicator and rejected this offer. He said it isnt commensurate 
with the disruption  to the companys business. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has admitted its errors, so I wont address what  went  wrong or why. 
It has apologised and offered to pay £750  for the inconvenience caused to the company. Mr 
S has rejected this offer so my role now is to consider whether the offer is a fair and 
reasonable one.
When deciding what is a fair and reasonable level of compensation, I have to assess the 
impact of the banks  actions on the company. And as the company is a separate  legal entity, 
I can only look at how the company  was affected. I cant  consider the impact on Mr S 
personally. And I cant punish  the bank for its mistakes.
Ref: DRN75807592The restrictions meant the company couldnt use the money in its account. Clearly,  this is a 
serious disruption to any business. The restriction lasted ten days. NatWest said it acted 
promptly when it discovered  its mistake. It lifted the restriction within  24 hours. 
However, the disruption to the company went on for three months.  This is because Mr S 
didnt know the restriction had been lifted until November and NatWest cant  show that it told 
him earlier it had done  this. 
To make matters  worse,  NatWest also forgot  to reactive the online banking. It has confirmed  
that Mr S tried five times to access the online account but access  was blocked.
So, as far as Mr S was concerned,  the companys account was still blocked in November 
and had been blocked for three months.
During that time, Mr S said the company  couldnt use its own funds to pay wages, suppliers 
and other  creditors. Mr S said this affected the companys reputation  and he had a lot of 
explaining to do to merchants, suppliers and clients. 
However, he said he managed to borrow  interest  free loans from family and friends to pay 
wages and expenses. I agree this isnt ideal but it meant the company didnt suffer a 
financial loss. 
I appreciate the companys reputation might have  been affected  but theres no evidence the 
company lost any clients, suppliers or business because of its difficulties  with NatWest.
There was no financial loss. The company did not lose any clients  or suppliers.  The 
company paid its staff,  suppliers and creditors. But the inconvenience lasted three months  
when it should  have lasted ten days.  Mr S spent three months  trying  to resolve the dispute 
with NatWest as well as smoothing over problems with suppliers and clients.  I note that 
according to NatWests records, the summer  period is the busiest season for the company. It 
trades weekly and its weekly expenses start at £1,000.
In these circumstances, I consider the disruption at the tail end of summer to a seasonal 
business with one director would have been considerable. 
For these reasons, I consider that £1,000  is a fairer reflection of the impact  of NatWests 
errors on the company.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am asking  National Westminster  Bank  Plc to pay £1,000 to 
company I, for the inconvenience  caused  by its errors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
I, to accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2019
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580759