K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has not paid his claim for the pre-
booked first night in a hotel and an excursion that he missed  due to a delayed  flight. 
My references to IPA include its agent. 
background
Mr S has travel  insurance with IPA through his card provider. 
Mr S and his partner boarded their international long haul flight at the start of their holiday. 
But the plane returned to the UK airport after a couple of hours due to a mechanical  fault.  
Mr S made a claim to IPA for his additional expenses, which  included missing  the first night 
pre-booked hotel  and an excursion. 
IPA paid part of the claim  but not for the missed first night hotel and excursion. It said this 
wasnt covered under  the policys terms. Mr S didnt agree and came to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint but following  a review said it was fair for IPA to 
pay Mr Ss claim. IPA didnt  agree so the complaints been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy - section  1.2 Cancelling,  Postponing or Abandoning - it says, in summary, 
that the policy holder is covered for unused accommodation  and excursions  purchased  on 
the linked  card account which are non-refundable if they cancel, postpone, change  or 
abandon their trip due to a number  of stated reasons.  One of these  is a delay of more than 
12 hours on the outward leg of their trip as a result of mechanical breakdown of public 
transport which means they no long want to go on their trip. 
Mr S and his partners trip was delayed for more than 12 hours. But IPA says that as they did 
travel Mr Ss claim  is not covered under the policys  terms and conditions.  
I am able to step outside the strict policy terms and conditions where I consider  it fair and 
reasonable to do so. 
Mr S and his partner could have  claimed  the full cost of their trip had they decided  to 
abandon it. I say this because  they were delayed for more than 12 hours  on the outward leg 
of their trip for a reason covered under the policy. Instead, they opted to travel and in doing 
so they effectively reduced IPAs liability to pay a much larger  claim. 
So I think the fair outcome is for IPA to pay Mr Ss claim for the missed first nights 
accommodation and pre-booked excursion, subject to the policy  limit and any applicable 
excess not already  deducted for the same claim. IPA must add interest as set out below.
IPA says that Mr S should claim under a different section of the policy  section 1.6 Travel 
Inconvenience. (I note this cover  is provided by a different insurance company). I dont 
Ref: DRN75554542agree with IPA, as section 1.6 covers  refreshment costs  or for additional travel and 
accommodation costs  incurred prior to Mr Ss actual departure  on the trip, if delayed.  Mr S 
isnt claiming for additional travel costs; hes claiming for the unused hotel and excursion 
missed because the flight had a mechanical  fault. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to pay Mr Ss claim for the first nights pre-booked hotel and excursion, subject to the policy  
limit and any applicable excess not already deducted under section 1.2 for this claim.  IPA 
must add interest* to the claim settlement at the simple  rate of 8% per year from the date of 
claim to it makes the payment to Mr S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If IPA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr S how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7555454