K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the increase in premium charged by Aviva Insurance  Limited  on 
renewal of her home insurance policy. 
background
In 2018 the premium for Mrs Cs home insurance  policy was £695.76. During the policy  term, 
Mrs C made  two claims  one for flood, another for accidental damage.
When the policy was due to renew in 2019, Aviva quoted her a premium  of £1097.98.
Mrs C queried  this with Aviva. In particular, she said she didnt understand why the cost to 
cover the specified  items on her policy had increased so much  when the claims shed made 
hadnt affected those items. 
Aviva said her claims had impacted all sections  of the cover. It said the premium was correct 
and reflected the risk as it viewed it. 
Mrs C didnt renew her policy. She said she had to downgrade to an inferior policy to keep 
the cost of the premium down.
Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. She 
thought Aviva had treated Mrs C fairly when pricing  her policy. She said although the 
previous claims might  not have affected  the items specified on the policy,  Aviva  would  still 
have to consider  the potential risk of insuring these.
As Mrs C didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs policy had limits  on the amount of cover for individual valuable  items in the home 
and individual  personal belongings in and away from home. Mrs C had some  items which 
were worth more than the limit, so these  were separately listed on the policy.  In 2018 Aviva  
charged £219.82 to cover  her specified  valuables.  This went  up to £321.96 in 2019.  The 
cover for specified personal belongings went up from £55.07 in 2018 to £80.65  in 2019. 
I accept that in percentage terms these are quite large increases. And, to an extent, I can 
understand why Mrs C found it hard to see how they were justified. The items in question  
hadnt changed. They also hadnt  been  affected by either of her claims. 
Unfortunately for Mrs C, while I understand all of that, Im not persuaded that Aviva  has done 
anything wrong. Its important to understand that this service  doesnt have a remit to assess 
pricing methodology generally, such as considering whether products represent good value 
for money.  So we generally accept that insurers can charge what they like for insurance  so 
long as they act fairly. In simple terms that means  that they should apply their chosen pricing 
model consistently so long as the consumer  has flexibility  to shop around and change 
insurer if they wish.  Im satisfied thats the case here. So I dont think Mrs Cs been treated 
unfairly by Aviva.
Ref: DRN72352822I appreciate that Mrs C hasnt been given a detailed explanation of why her insurance quote 
had increased  so much for her valuables.  But home insurance is a very competitive market. 
Im satisfied it could be damaging to Avivas commercial interests  to make this information 
available to consumers.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7235282