K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI policy in 1992  when they applied  for their mortgage. Neither 
party can confirm where the sale took place. The policy was in Mr Ms sole name and gave 
him accident, sickness and unemployment  cover. They paid a monthly amount for it. 
Nationwide has already refunded some of the premiums paid, along  with the appropriate  
interest. This was for the period between February  1992 and January 1993 as Mr and Mrs M 
were over-insured.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities   so, on what  I 
consider is most likely given the available evidence and what  we know about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs M say it was added without their agreement. I cant know 
what was discussed  during the sale. Mr and Mrs M havent given much detail and 
Nationwide doesnt  have their paperwork from the sale, but thats not surprising given how 
long ago the sale was. I have thought carefully  about Mr and Mrs Ms comments, but I have 
to take into account  how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall.  
Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly uphold  their complaint on this point.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check  the policy  
was right for Mr M. But it had to give them enough information so they could decide for 
themselves whether they wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it should have  been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy  if they 
had received better information. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys  
terms and conditions.
Mr M wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  people with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types  of 
Ref: DRN72972682employment contract.  As he couldve benefitted  from the full extent of the cover,  I think  it 
unlikely he needed  better information about  the policys  exclusions and limitations.  
Mr M was entitled to between three  and six months sick pay but the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to his work  benefits and for much longer  up to 24 months. They  
said they had some savings but the PPI would have allowed them to use these to cover 
other costs whilst Mr M wasnt working   or to keep them  intact for their future needs. So 
I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs M if Mr M was off work sick or lost 
his job.
I dont know when  the cost was made  clear  but the policy  was competitively priced  and 
apparently affordable.  
The policy had a 90-day waiting  period  but, taking into account Mr Ms sick pay and 
savings and the potential 24-months  cover available  once Mr M could claim, I dont think  
this would  have  changed Mr and Mrs Ms decision.
 
In summary  Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the policy  for Mr M and so appear  to have 
wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely  they wouldve  made a different decision if better  
information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7297268