K820x#14complaint
Miss R says St Andrews  Insurance  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss R bought the policy in 2006  sometime after taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for the 
PPI policy  over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss R for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £611.64  a month towards  Miss Rs 
mortgage balance  (including an additional 33% for other outgoings)  in the event  of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost £36.33 a month. 
At the time,  Miss R was employed as a pre-school  assistant. She has told us she was 
entitled to 12 months  full sick pay but she didnt have any other means of repaying her 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Our adjudicator asked for more  information about 
this unusual and generous sick pay entitlement  but didnt receive a response. Having 
considered this further our adjudicator said it was likely Miss R would  have received some  
sick pay but that it was unlikely  she would  have received 12 months full sick pay. As we 
have not received any further comments from Miss Rs representative following the 
adjudicators opinion, it would appear this is not disputed. 
Miss R has also said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Miss Rs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Rs representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs  including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could  make  a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common  law duty of utmost good faith means St Andrews should 
have told Miss R about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss R and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN74402582The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss R received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Miss R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN74402583In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Miss R with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Miss R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN74402584Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss R and 
St Andrews,  Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss R know  she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Miss R has said that the 
PPI was included  as part of the package with her mortgage. 
Both parties  agree that the policy was taken  out by phone.  St Andrews no longer has a copy  
of the call recording, which isnt unusual after all this time. This means  I dont know  what  was 
discussed during  that call. But from the information Ive been  given, the sale of the policy  
took place over a year after the mortgage was taken out  so it seems Miss Rs recollection 
of how the policy was sold to her may have been affected over time. As the policy  was sold 
to her quite  some time after the mortgage  had started, I think Miss R would have known  that 
the PPI policy  was separate to her mortgage.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Miss R knew the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it provided  advice during this sale. Miss R disagrees.  Looking at what  St 
Andrews says happened when it sold Miss R the PPI, I think that it did provide advice.
This means  St Andrews had to advise Miss R with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps St Andrews  took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss R. It seems Miss R cant remember clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a phone  call. There is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser 
took steps to establish whether Miss R would have been caught by the significant  exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  St Andrews considered whether  Miss R had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should  have  
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss R given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded St Andrews advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Miss R, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss R met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss R had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Rs ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Miss R was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits its 
likely she would have been  entitled to.
Ref: DRN74402585-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss R. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss R. There  
was nothing about Miss Rs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Rs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  St Andrews gave Miss R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
St Andrews  was recommending to her and make an informed decision about  whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss R was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss R was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss R would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss R agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss R Im not persuaded 
St Andrews  did enough  to present  information about the policy it was recommending  in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded St Andrews gave Miss R all of 
the information she needed  about  the policy to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Rs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Rs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN74402586-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss R has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that St Andrews  ought  to have  done either. 
what effect did St Andrews  shortcomings have on Miss R? To what extent  did Miss R 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to 
Miss R. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
she suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Miss R would have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded St Andrews took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss R, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if St Andrews had explained things  
properly, Miss R would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Miss R says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when St Andrews advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted  
that product.  But she made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Rs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss R knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it isnt clear if St Andrews told her the exact premium at the point 
Ref: DRN74402587Miss R applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Miss R would have been told 
the cost before the policy started, so if the costs were significantly at odds  with her 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she might  have  raised that with St Andrews at 
the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss R would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the call in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  St Andrews made clear exactly what Miss R would get back 
in return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Miss Rs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than she would have  expected as there  was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or associated  
symptoms, whether diagnosed or not, about which Miss R knew of or should 
reasonably have known about  at the start date or for which she had seen or arranged  
to see a doctor during the 12 months before the start date; 
The policy excluded claims for any chronic conditions;
The policy contained limitations on the amount of benefit  payable on certain claims 
relating to back and mental health conditions  and placed more  onerous evidential 
requirements to support  some  claims on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss R be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss R pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss R from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Rs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss R was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Miss R wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss R didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for some of these  conditions were more  onerous than 
Miss R might  reasonably  have expected.  But its unlikely she would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
Ref: DRN74402588claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss R from taking out the policy, Miss R, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss R had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which, in the insurers  view,  her 
experience, education or training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might have played 
into her thinking about  what she would do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for 
thought  although given  Miss Rs circumstances, on balance, I still think  she would have 
been interested in taking out the cover. 
St Andrews  may not have told Miss R that any claim  she made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Miss R would have been likely  to receive full sick 
pay for and her statutory  redundancy entitlement  was also likely to be significantly less than 
12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss R would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss R be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Miss Rs sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss R would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss R 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Rs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss R would not have bought  the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss R 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN74402589Miss R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Miss R compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss R thinks St Andrews  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
St Andrews  statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Miss R, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Rs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss R and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss R in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN744025810my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7440258