K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complains about UK Insurance Limiteds handling  of a claim for subsidence on 
a home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G hold a home insurance  policy with UKI. A claim for subsidence was submitted 
on the policy and UKI agreed to cover this.
Repairs were carried out but Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the quality of this and the 
handling of the claim  by UKI and its appointed agents. Mr G was also unhappy that UKI 
didnt pay for his alternative accommodation. Hed been staying in different accommodation 
from Mrs G and their children, whose accommodation costs were covered by UKI. He 
complained to UKI who agreed the service and some of the work done  wasnt  acceptable. It 
paid £2000 in compensation  for delays  to the claim and poor quality of repairs.  Mr and Mrs G 
didnt accept this and brought the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator thought UKI could have done  better. She thought  UKI hadnt handled the 
claim well. She said UKI should pay an additional  £1500 compensation. But she didnt agree 
UKI should pay for Mr Gs alternative accommodation. Mr G had moved into this 
accommodation with his dog as the other rented  property didnt allow dogs. She recognised 
that UKI had agreed to pay the equivalent  of 50% of kennel fees and thought  this was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
UKI agreed  with our investigators  findings,  but Mr and Mrs G didnt. Mr G said the stress of 
this matter and living  apart had caused their marriage to break down, and he wasnt  
prepared to put the dog in kennels. Theyve  asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears to me that there are a number of aspects of UKIs  handling  that Mrs and Mr G are 
unhappy about. Ill deal with each  of these in turn.
Delays to the claim and repairs
Insurers have a duty to handle  claims promptly  and fairly. But Mrs and Mr Gs house is still 
uninhabitable almost 4 years  after the subsidence first occurred.  And while a claim for 
subsidence will usually take some time to be resolved, as monitoring needs to be carried out 
before repairs can be planned  and carried out, UKI has admitted this claim has taken too 
long to resolve.
When attempting to resolve the subsidence  issues, I can see a number of different repairs  
have been carried  out. But after the initial  schedule  had been agreed  additional  repairs  were 
identified, which meant a further  delay to the repairs  being carried out. And after the works 
were completed, they didnt fully rectify the issues. But UKIs been unable  to carry out the full 
works and enquiries  it wanted to because access to a neighbouring  property wasnt  granted. 
So I think there were reasons beyond UKIs  control  which have contributed  to the delays,  but 
Ref: DRN75184542it hasnt done  a good job in keeping Mr and Mrs G updated as to what  it was doing or the 
reasons for the delays.
After the initial works were carried out, UKIs contractors left the property  in an unacceptable  
condition as some damage  hadnt  been repaired. This has meant further  works need  to be 
carried out. This has all had the effect  of extending  the period Mr and Mrs G couldnt live in 
their home. UKI recognised it hadnt provided  the level of service it should,  and paid £2000  
compensation.
Works to repair the subsidence at Mr and Mrs Gs property  are continuing. But its now four 
years since  the subsidence  first occurred. I can see that the works currently being  carried  
out have been agreed  with Mr and Mrs G. But it remains  to be seen  how long these repairs 
are going  to take, and whether they will now successfully  repair  the damage caused. Theres 
uncertainty of when  the repairs will be properly  completed. So I dont think its surprising  that 
Mr and Mrs G have lost faith in UKIs ability to repair the property fully, and can understand 
why theyd now be sceptical that the current repairs will satisfactorily repair the property.
I think theres been a very significant  impact  on Mr and Mrs G as a result of UKIs poor 
service and handling of the claim.  I dont  think the £2000 paid in compensation to date 
properly recognises  this. Its not only that the repairs to the house havent been  completed 
four years after the subsidence first happened. Over that period of time, Mr and Mrs G have 
had to contact  UKI and its agents,  attend  the property, and understand a complex  claim 
involving multiple repairs. At the same time, theyve been living  elsewhere  which  will have 
had a significant impact  on their everyday  lives.  They arranged this alternative  
accommodation themselves, and have  had to extend this on multiple occasions, because 
the repairs havent been completed when they were previously told they would be. This will 
have added to the stress  of the situation.
All of these factors mean I think the compensation paid by UKI should  be increased. I think 
£1500 in addition  to what has already been paid, making £3500,  more  suitably  recognises  
the impact the delays  and poor service  provided by UKI. Its previously said it accepted  it 
should pay this additional amount.
Mr G says the delays and poor service from UKI have  caused the breakdown  of his and 
Mrs Gs marriage,  and him to have  health problems. Im sorry to hear this, but I wont  be 
asking UKI to pay him additional compensation because of this. I understand that the claim 
and the issues  which have arisen  during the claims process have caused, and continue to 
cause, a great deal of stress for Mr and Mrs G. But I simply dont know  enough  about  their 
relationship to say this alone has caused the breakdown of their marriage. And it would be 
almost impossible for me to place a monetary value on that even if I was sure that UKIs 
actions had been the only reason for their marriage  ending. 
Alternative accommodation costs
Mr G says UKI should cover the cost of his alternative accommodation. Mr and Mrs G have 
been living separately since they first had to move  out of the house  when the damage  
occurred. The property  Mrs G rented and moved  into with their children didnt allow  dogs, so 
Mr G rented accommodation which did. UKIs paid Mr G £8500  as a contribution to what it 
would have paid for kennel fees.
I can see from the available evidence that Mrs G found the property she moved into. And 
when she did this, I think its fair to assume she knew their dog wouldnt be able to stay 
Ref: DRN75184543there. So I dont think  its reasonable to expect UKI to then provide cover  for a completely 
separate accommodation because of this. I appreciate there was a degree  of urgency in 
finding somewhere to stay, but the property rented, the cost of which  they knew  UKI were 
going to meet, wasnt suitable for all their needs. And the evidence  I have is that Mr G 
moved into his accommodation  with their dog before Mrs G moved  into hers.  
So Im not persuaded that Mrs G moved into her alternative accommodation as a matter of 
urgency and then realised  it wasnt suitable  for all their needs. And even if they then became 
aware this was the case, they could have tried to find an alternative accommodation which 
did meet  their needs at the end of their original  tenancy agreement. But the unsuitable 
accommodation has been extended  several times. It would not be fair for me to ask UKI to 
cover the costs of a separate  accommodation  where an unsuitable  accommodation was 
moved into and extended  when Mr and Mrs G knew it didnt meet all their needs.
I can also see that the possibility of the dog being accommodated in kennels  was discussed 
between Mr G and UKIs  agents  within a month  of the damage occurring. I know Mr G thinks  
accommodation in kennels isnt appropriate,  but I think UKI did enough  in the circumstances. 
It was aware the dog couldnt stay at the accommodation it was paying for, and so offered a 
reasonable alternative. I dont think Mr G was ever in a position where he had a reasonable 
expectation that both forms of alternative accommodation would be covered by UKI. I think 
UKI have  been  clear  from the outset that Mr Gs separate accommodation wasnt  something  
it would  pay for.
So I dont  think it would  be fair for me to ask UKI to cover the costs  of Mr Gs separate  
accommodation. Its recognised it would have  been  prepared to cover  a contribution towards 
kennel fees for the dog and made  a payment for this. 
Ive considered whether I should  ask UKI to cover the full amount of kennel fees. The 
amount it paid was equivalent to half the total it would have cost for the dog to be kennelled. 
Im not persuaded UKI should pay the full amount. While the policy  says it will cover  
alternative accommodation and kennelling  costs, its important to note that this 
accommodation was found by Mr and Mrs G. And as Ive said, it wasnt suitable  for all their 
needs. 
So it would not be fair to ask UKI to cover the full kennelling fees in addition to the 
accommodation. If the accommodation  had been  found and arranged by UKI but the dog 
wasnt allowed to stay there, Id be more  likely  to ask UKI to meet  the full kennelling fees. I 
think the payment  its made is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN75184544my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint in part. I order  UK Insurance  Limited to pay a 
further £1500 compensation to Mr and Mrs G, making £3500  in total. As Mr and Mrs G have 
apparently separated, the payment will need to be made in two parts:
£750 paid to Mr G, sent to the address held on file for him by UKI.
£750 paid to Mrs G, sent to the address held on file for her by UKI.
UK Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell 
it Mr and Mrs G accept my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 April 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7518454