K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Northern  Bank Limited  (Northern Bank) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss L bought the policy when she took out a loan in 2007. At the same time she was sold a 
single premium PPI policy.  The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
If Miss L had made a successful claim the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months for 
an unemployment claim and, in respect of claims for accident and sickness, it could 
potentially pay out until the end of the loan term.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and Miss L had to agree  to take 
it out. Miss L told us that she was led to believe the policy was compulsory. Where there is a 
dispute about what happened  such as this, Ill base my decision on what  I think is more 
likely.
Both parties  agree this sale took place in a telephone call and the documents for the loan 
and the PPI were  then sent for Miss L to review and sign. Northern Bank no longer  has a 
copy of the call recording, which is understandable considering how long ago this took place, 
but it has provided a copy of the sales script that it says it expected staff to follow. I dont 
have a persuasive reason to doubt Northern Bank  when it says the script was used.
This script prompts the sales advisor to obtain  information from the applicant  about their 
existing means and then recommend the policy if applicable.  I can see that the advisor has 
to obtain consent from the applicant to include the PPI onto the loan. So I think Miss L would 
have known that she had a choice  about  the policy during this call.
Ive also been  given a copy of the Fixed-Sum Loan Agreement  which was then produced 
and sent out for Miss L to sign. On this form there is a section about  the PPI and a box to tick 
if the cover  is required. I can see that on Miss Ls form the box has been ticked and she has 
signed below this to confirm her selection. If Miss L had decided she didnt want  to take out 
the PPI she could have left the box blank and not signed that section.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Northern Bank made  it clear  Miss L 
didnt have to take out the policy and she chose  to have it, knowing she could refuse it if she 
didnt want it  even  if that is not her recollection  now.
Ref: DRN77675202Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Miss L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. I say 
this because it appears she was eligible for the cover and she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, such as unusual working arrangements or suffering 
from a medical condition of which she was already aware.
Miss L has told us that she would  receive  six months full pay, followed by six months  half 
pay from her employer  if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness  so she didnt 
need this policy.  But this policy would have met her monthly repayments until she was fit to 
return to work, or until the loan finished,  whichever came first. This payment would be in 
addition to, and potentially for longer  than,  her sick pay from her employment.  And it would 
also provide cover for up to 12 months if she was to lose her job. As Miss L has told us that 
she had no savings or other means  with which to meet her repayments, I think  this policy  
could have provided her with a useful benefit.
Miss Ls representatives have said Northern Bank didnt tell Miss L she would only be given 
limited information about  the policy during the sale  so they have said this means  the policy 
was mis-sold. And its likely the information  Northern Bank gave Miss L over the phone  
about the PPI wasnt complete. But Northern Bank would have given Miss L some 
information about the PPI. And she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  It seems like it would  have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. In any 
event, the sales  script  provided did prompt the advisor to obtain  consent from the applicant 
to continue with the sale on the basis that only limited information would be given. So it 
appears Northern  Bank would more likely  have  made it clear the basis  on which  it was 
selling this product.
From what  we know Miss L would have  got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium  if 
she cancelled the policy early. I dont know if Northern Bank thought  about this when it 
recommended the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Miss L. But I havent  seen  
anything to suggest she thought shed repay  the loan early.  And it appears  that the loan ran 
to term. So I dont think this meant  the policy wasnt right for her  or that better information 
about this wouldve stopped her buying it.
And the credit agreement  shows  the cost of the policy   including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Miss L would 
have understood  how much  the PPI would  cost if she kept the policy for its full term. And I 
think she agreed to take the PPI knowing the cost. Given how long the policy could have 
paid out for, if Miss L made a successful claim its likely she couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
So, overall, I dont  think Miss L has lost out as a result  of anything that Northern Bank 
mightve done wrong.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because:  
Ref: DRN77675203Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss L about that. Because Northern Bank didnt  
tell Miss L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss L has said - including what she said about  being able to 
ask her family to help her. Whilst I appreciate  that her family  would  have wanted  to help, 
support from others cant always be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also change, 
meaning they are unable  to provide such financial assistance. So this point doesnt change 
my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Miss L any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Miss L the extra she paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium - including  
any extra  Miss L paid if the loan was paid off early.  Northern  Bank  should  also pay Miss L 
8%* simple interest on the extra paid each  month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss L can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Miss L any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7767520