K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) hasnt acted fairly in declining to agree 
to repair  the hole in her ceiling which it would need to make  to repair  a faulty light.
background
Ms M has a home emergency policy with Aviva  which is connected to her home  insurance  
policy. On 26 January 2019,  Ms M called Aviva to report  that her kitchen  lights had gone off. 
An engineer  attended and said hed need  to make  a hole in the ceiling  to gain access  to the 
junction box, but told her that he couldnt do this and shed have to arrange for access  to the 
junction box to be created  herself.  Ms M contacted Aviva about this and referred  it to a term 
of her policy which states:
Creating access
On arriving at your property, the engineer  will aim to locate the source  
of the incident.  If direct  access is not available (for instance if there  are 
floor tiles or floorboards, or any of your possessions (such as storage 
boxes or furniture)  in the way) the engineer will need  to create access.  
If you want the engineer  to do this, you will be asked to confirm this in 
writing while  the engineer  is at your property. Unless stated in any of 
the What is Covered?  sections below, we will not cover you for any 
damage that may be caused to the property, its contents, fixtures,  
fittings, floorings  or sanitary  ware (unless the damage is caused by our 
engineers negligence). If you do not want the engineer to create  
access, we will be unable  to do the work until you have  arranged 
access.
Aviva accepted that the engineer shouldnt have said he couldnt  make an access hole. An 
engineer could create access, but Ms M would  need  to sign a disclaimer for the damage that 
was caused. Aviva explained that it wasnt responsible for making good any damage  
caused.
Ms M referred  again to her policy, which also states:
Reinstatement
We will reinstate  any floor covering  or surface  to make it safe, within 
the claims limit However, we are not responsible  for reinstating floor 
coverings, fixtures  or fittings to their original standards
Ms M was particularly concerned that any hole left in her ceiling after the engineer had fixed  
the light would cause dust to enter,  and that this would have serious  implications for the 
health of her young son who is asthmatic. A suggestion was made by our investigator that 
the engineer might  cover any hole he left with plastic as an interim measure before Ms M 
was able to get a proper  repair  done.  Aviva initially  confirmed that its engineer would  cover  
the hole with plastic sheeting and this appeared to satisfy Ms M as a temporary measure.
Ref: DRN71453312But Aviva then contacted Ms M to tell her that an engineer would be calling shortly, but 
warned that he might  need to make  a number of holes in her ceiling depending on how 
difficult it was to locate  the junction box. She was also advised  that her ceiling would not be 
made good, and that shed need  to sign a disclaimer first.
Ms Ms anxiety increased when she was told that more than one hole might be necessary, 
depending on how difficult it was to locate the junction box. Ms M believes Aviva has gone 
back on its agreement in that a single hole has become multiple holes and she fears that her 
ceiling will need to be replaced. She argues that Aviva has an obligation to make safe, and 
that leaving holes  in her ceiling with the risk of dust was not safe for her son. 
Ms M has not yet had her light fixed some 12 months later. She wants Aviva to make  
access, fix the faulty light, and make safe by reinstating the area where  access  was made.
When Ms M didnt receive a satisfactory response from Aviva she brought her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator was of the view that Aviva had acted in accordance with the 
terms of Ms Ms policy and had acted  reasonably.  Ms M doesnt  agree with our investigators  
view and has asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman. The matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Ms Ms complaint 
and Ill give my reasons.
Ms Ms policy is a home emergency policy. It specifically states that it is supplemental to her 
home insurance policy. Its purpose  is to provide cover for an emergency, which is defined as 
an unforeseen and sudden incident which (i) causes a loss of essential services  or damage 
to your property, or (ii) exposes  a risk to your health, or (iii) makes your property 
uninhabitable. 
Aviva can quite properly  state what the policy covers, and what it doesnt. In the two sections 
Ive quoted above, namely Creating access and Reinstatement, it states  the extent of its 
obligations and liability. It will create access to find the cause of a problem, but before it does 
so the customer is required to sign a disclaimer of liability for any damage caused  unless  
such damage is due to the negligence of the engineer.  If the customer  isnt willing to accept 
this, then they can make arrangements  for creating access themselves or through their 
home insurers.
Reinstatement following  a repair is limited to making things safe, and is particularly aimed at 
floors rather  than ceilings.  I think that in Ms Ms circumstances, preventing  dust from a hole 
or holes  in a ceiling on a temporary  basis could  be easily achieved. Avivas  engineers  
offered to do this with some plastic sheet.
Whilst this wouldve satisfied Ms M, she was then informed  by Aviva that its engineer might 
need to make a number  of holes and would not provide any plastic sheeting.
I dont think that Aviva  has acted unreasonably in not agreeing to depart from the terms of 
the policy. I think it acted  reasonably in advising Ms M that a number of holes might be 
needed in her ceiling if the junction  box proved difficult  to locate. It advised her that she had 
a number of options open to her. She could  have signed Avivas disclaimer  and had its 
Ref: DRN71453313engineers undertake the work and then arranged for her home insurers  or some  other  third 
party to promptly repair the ceiling. Or she could have arranged for the necessary repair to 
be undertaken entirely by her home insurers. In both cases any holes made could have 
easily been covered on a temporary basis, and I dont expect that Aviva  wouldve had any 
problem with asking  its engineer to do that  their engineers had previously  confirmed they 
could cover the area with plastic sheet. 
A home emergency  policy is not the same as a home insurance policy. The work undertaken 
is usually confined to alleviating an emergency situation, and doesnt go beyond that to 
include fully making  good. A disclaimer of liability is often needed before work can be 
undertaken. I dont  consider that is unreasonable.
I appreciate that Ms M has found  this matter most distressing, but I dont think there was any 
need for her to have gone so long without a working  kitchen light.  Her faulty light couldve 
been dealt with in January 2019  had she accepted  that if she wanted the work done under 
her home emergency policy shed  need to sign a disclaimer,  and make her own 
arrangements for making good after the repair work  had been completed.  Avivas  only 
obligation thereafter was to make  safe, which it had asked its engineers to do by using 
plastic sheet as a temporary measure  to prevent dust. 
In the circumstances I dont think that Aviva has acted unreasonably, so Im not going to ask 
it to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7145331