K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds  decision to keep his
premium when it cancelled his car insurance  policy as if it never existed .Mr Ss mother is
helping him with his complaint.
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  through a broker in September  2017. The lead insurer for
the policy was Calpe  Insurance.
In January 2018 Mr S was involved in an incident with another vehicle. He reported the
incident to his broker. Calpe discovered  that Mr S had a previous  criminal conviction which
he didnt tell the broker about  when  he applied for the policy.
Calpe decided that Mr S had deliberately  misrepresented the facts about his history. It said if
it had known about his criminal conviction, it wouldnt have offered him a policy. So it
cancelled Mr Ss policy as if it never  existed.  This meant Mr S was effectively uninsured
since September 2017. Calpe said it would keep the full years premium Mr S had paid.
Mr S said he accepted that he didnt think when he answered the brokers  question about  his
criminal history.  But he thought Calpes actions  were harsh.  Mr S thought Calpe should
refund him the remainder  of the years premium.
Calpe didnt agree.  It said it was entitled to keep the premium in line with the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mr S and his mother asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Calpes
decision to void Mr Ss policy because  he deliberately misrepresented the facts  was fair.
But he didnt  think Mr S had done  this in order to gain financial benefit  or obtain a policy he
knew he wouldnt otherwise have been  able to buy. So he recommended  Calpe offset any
costs of a claim from the third party against the rest of the years premium.
Mr Ss mother didnt  agree. She said her son didnt  deliberately provide incorrect  information.
He wanted to put his past behind  him. He didnt  give it much  thought  as he didnt realise the
significance. Mrs S said she helped her son complete the application.
Mrs S said Mr S bought  a car insurance  policy the previous year with another insurer  and he
disclosed his criminal conviction to them.  The only reason why he bought  a policy  in 2017
with Calpe was because it was cheaper.
Calpe didnt agree  to offset the remainder of the years premium against  the costs  of a third
party claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2019. I thought Calpe had acted reasonably. 
I havent received  any reply or comments from Mr S or Calpe to my provisional decision. So 
the case has been passed  back to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78530502An insurer  asks a customer  a series of questions to weigh up the risks of providing  insurance
to that customer.  CIDRA  also known as the Act says that a customer is responsible  for
taking reasonable care when answering  questions set by an insurer or broker about
themselves  and to answer them honestly and to the best of their knowledge.  In this case, I
think Calpe  as the insurer has the right to void the policy.
Mr S applied for this policy through an online comparison  website. The relevant question he
was asked was:
Has anyone  on the policy  had any non-driving  convictions, or ever had insurance
declined, cancelled, voided or had special terms imposed?
Mr S answered no. The broker sent Mr S his policy documents which  included a Statement
of Insurance and a copy of the proposal based on the answers Mr S gave. This set out the
following:
Has any driver  ever been convicted  of any criminal  offence (unspent  under  the
rehabilitation of offenders act 1974) or is any prosecution pending?
The answer recorded was no.
So I think Mr S was asked a clear question  when he applied for the policy, which he didnt
answer correctly. I understand that the length of Mr Ss sentence means  his conviction is
unspent.
The Statement of Insurance  highlighted in bold a section titled  Important  Information. This
section explained  that if any false information  was provided, it could invalidate  Mr Ss policy.
Calpe said if Mr S was in any doubt  about the information he should provide, he should
disclose it.
So I think Mr S had a further opportunity to contact  his insurer  or broker  and correct  the
information if it wasnt correct  when he received his policy documents.  But he didnt.
Mr S told Calpe that the reason why he didnt disclose his criminal conviction was because
he wanted to put his past behind him. He didnt think it was any business  of Calpes. And
Mr Ss mother told us that the premium was cheaper  with Calpe than his previous insurer  
which was aware of his criminal conviction.
So I think Calpes decision that Mr S deliberately misrepresented  the facts  was a reasonable
one.
Under CIDRA, if a customer provided incorrect information  but it was careless  the insurer
should provide  a refund of premiums. However, this doesnt apply if a claim has been made
under the policy.
Calpe received a claim from the third party involved in the incident Mr S reported in January
2018.
Mrs Ss mother believes  Mr S is being  penalised because  he paid for his premium yearly.
She believes if hed paid for it in monthly instalments, Calpe wouldnt have been able to keep
the balance of the yearly premium.
Ref: DRN78530503But this isnt true. Irrespective of whether Mr S provided incorrect  information deliberately or
carelessly, he owes the full years  premium to Calpe. Mr Ss contract  with Calpe is for a year.
So even if Mr S paid for his premiums in monthly instalments - as a claim was made - Calpe
was entitled to pursue Mr S for the remainder  of the years premium.
Even though  Calpe voided the policy,  it has a duty to deal with any third party  claim under
the Road Traffic Act (RTA) 1988  as the last insurer. This means a third party isnt left without
the option to pursue a claim against a third party  insurer if they arent  at fault  or only
partially at fault  for an incident.
In this case, Calpe has settled the claim on a shared liability  basis.  Based  on the information
available to it, I think this decision  is reasonable. This means that Calpe is entitled to recover
the third partys claim  costs it paid from Mr S.
I know Mr S and his mother believe the actions Calpe has taken are harsh and
disproportionate. But the steps  Calpe  has taken are in line with the terms of the policy and
the law - in order to prevent fraud and to ensure all customers  pay the correctly quoted
premium which reflects  the answers they provide when  applying for insurance. And Calpe
further explained to Mr S the consequences  of providing incorrect  information in its policy
booklet. It says (under section 7) that failing  to provide accurate information about criminal
convictions means its underwriters may:
immediately avoid  your policy. If your policy is avoided as a result  of section 7
Underwriters will not pay any claim and in certain circumstances may retain any
premiums paid.
So overall I think Calpes  decision  to cancel Mr Ss policy  as if it never  existed because  he
deliberately provided  incorrect  information  was reasonable. And because Mr S seems to
have gained a reduction in his premium from the amount his previous insurer charged (which
Mr S disclosed his conviction to) I dont think its reasonable to ask Calpe to offset the
remainder of the years  premium against any third party claim costs.
Because Calpe  is dealing  with a claim from a third party under the RTA, its entitled to
recover the costs of the third party claim from Mr S directly.
Ref: DRN78530504my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7853050