K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  FICL  has told us the PPI was sold to Miss W by phone  after she took 
out her card.  The PPI policy was added to Miss Ws account several months  after her card 
application. 
The sale of this policy took place a long time ago so unsurprisingly theres little information 
available from the time.  But as Miss W took the policy several  months after agreeing  to the 
card I think  she would have known she didnt have to take it in order  to have the card itself. 
And from the information available I dont have enough to say Miss W didnt choose to take 
the policy.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss W got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Miss W has told us she was entitled to sick pay when she applied for the PPI. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to Miss Ws sick pay and for longer than she would 
have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Miss W has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN77841682my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784168