K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have  charged  him 
for extra hire unfairly as there was a delay in collecting the vehicle because of a third party.
background 
Mr S agreed to hire a car on 2 July 2016 for 24 months. Towards the end of the agreement  
Mr S agreed with VWFS to extend the rental  period  to 17 October 2018. Arrangements were 
made by VWFS  for an inspection of the car by a third party on the 25 October  2018  with 
collection booked for the following day. The third party said it was unable  to contact Mr S on 
the day of the inspection  and so the inspection  and collection did not go ahead.
On the 29 October  2018 Mr S sent an email to VWFS and the third party collection company 
to find out why the car had not been collected. Mr S had no response to this email  and sent 
a further chaser  email  on the 1 November  2018. On 6 November 2018 VWFS emailed  Mr S 
and said that it would  pass on his details to the third party  collection agent  to arrange a 
further collection. VWFS called the third party and passed on Mr Ss mobile number  and 
requested it arrange  collection.
The third party did not call Mr S on his mobile  and instead called Mr S on his landline 
number. It was unable  to get through  to Mr S and so no collection was arranged. Mr S didnt 
contact either VWFS  or the third party again.
On 11 January 2019 VWFS wrote to Mr S and requested that he contact the third party to 
arrange collection as the car had not been  collected and no payments had been made for 
some time. Mr S was unhappy at the tone of this email  and contacted VWFS to say that he 
had tried to chase up the collection in October 2018. Mr S asked for a collection date after 
27 February as he was away working.
The third party contacted Mr S on his mobile  on the 20 February 2019 and an inspection was 
arranged for 6 March  with collection  on 7 March. Mr S then contacted  the third party on the 6 
March to rearrange the inspection and collection for the 19 March  2019. The car was 
collected on this date and VWFS  sent Mr S an invoice for extra  rental charges for 153 days.
Mr S doesnt  think he should  pay these charges as he wasnt responsible for the delay in 
collecting the car and so he brought his complaint to this service.  VWFS agreed  to reduce 
the outstanding charges from £1834.80 to £917.40  to reflect  the delay but Mr S didnt agree.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that the offer made  by VWFS was fair 
in the circumstances. He thought that Mr S should have done more to chase up the 
collection as under the agreement he was responsible for the car until it was collected.
Mr S didnt agree and replied to say in summary that it was not his responsibility to chase for 
collection from a large company. Mr S said that he would be prepared  to pay £450  to settle 
the matter but VWFS  didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN76679172I can understand why Mr S was frustrated by the delay in collecting his car and why he 
doesnt feel he should have to chase  up the business. This service  doesnt punish 
businesses for mistakes but looks at what it would be fair and reasonable to expect.
Mr S was aware of the process  at the end of his agreement to arrange an inspection and 
collection of the car. He had agreed an extension  of the agreement to October  2018  and an 
inspection and collection was booked for 25 and 26 October respectively. The third party  
said it was unable to make contact with Mr S at the address and so the inspection  and 
collection didnt take place. 
Mr S understandably emailed both the collection agent and VWFS to find out what had 
happened. He then had to chase a response  and on 6 November 2018 VWFS said it would 
pass on Mr Ss details  to arrange  a further  collection. It is unfortunate that the third party 
didnt use Mr Ss mobile number to contact him when it had been specifically instructed to do 
so. But I think that it would be reasonable to expect Mr S to have contacted  VWFS or the 
third party again  before VWFS wrote to him on 11 January 2018 to explain that the car had 
still not been collected.
I understand why Mr S didnt feel that he should chase these large organisations but he was 
aware that the car remained  his responsibility until it was collected. Mr S still had use of the 
car during the time that it was in his possession and he didnt take any steps after early  
November to arrange to hand it back. In addition Mr S also asked for the collection date to 
be arranged at his convenience for 19 March 2019 which was some weeks after VWFS got 
back in touch in January  2019. So I dont think it is fair or reasonable that all of the excess 
hire charges  should  be waived.        
I do think that the third party company should  have used the correct  number  for Mr S and as 
it was acting on behalf of VWFS  I think it is fair that some of the excess  hire charges should 
be removed. I think that the offer to discount  the hire charges to £917.40 is fair and 
reasonable and reflects  the inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I think  the offer made  by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  is fair and reasonable and it should  discount 
the excess hire charges  to £917.40.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7667917