K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that a payment made  to a third party from his account  with Nationwide  
Building Society showed as pending.
background
In October  2018 Mr I made a payment by telephone to a third party.  The payment showed in 
Mr Is transactions as pending, which  reduced his available balance.
The third party told Mr I the payment had been  declined by the bank. Mr I complained  to 
Nationwide. Nationwide  said the payment had been  approved and was showing as pending  
because the third party hadnt  claimed it. It said the payment would drop off if it wasnt  
claimed in 7 days. It also explained to Mr I that if the third party informed Nationwide  that it 
wouldnt claim the transaction the pending  payment  would drop off after 2 days.
During further calls with Nationwide, Mr I said the third party  wasnt willing  to cancel  the 
payment. Nationwide told Mr I that the only option was to wait until the 7 days  had expired, 
at which  point the funds would be available  in his account again.
Mr I complained to this service. He said Nationwide had told him that the funds would  be 
available for him to use the next working day, but they werent.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said there was no evidence that Nationwide 
had told Mr I his money  would be available the next working day. The investigator  also said 
Nationwide had explained  the processes and available  options  clearly. 
Mr I didnt agree. He felt the investigator  hadnt  dealt with the point  that hed been told on the 
phone that the funds  would be in his account the next day.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Is statements and I can see that a transaction for £158.13 was approved 
for payment to a third party on 25 October  2018. Theres nothing  to suggest that Nationwide 
declined the payment.
Ive listened to the calls Mr I made to the bank  on 25 and 26 October  2018.  Nationwide  told 
Mr I the transaction  was pending and could remain  so for 7 days  until the third party claimed 
it or until it dropped  off. Nationwide also explained  a process  whereby  the third party  could 
cancel the transaction and in those  circumstances the funds would be available  in two 
working days.
Mr I says he was told the funds would be available the next day. Ive listened  to all of the 
calls but I havent  found anything to suggest  that Mr I was told this.
I appreciate Mr I didnt get his money back in his account as quickly  as hed hoped.  The third 
party didnt cancel  the transaction so Mr I had to wait 7 days. This is in accordance  with the 
information which the bank provided.  In the circumstances Im unable  to say that Nationwide 
has done anything  wrong. The information  it provided to Mr I was correct.
Ref: DRN72756422my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7275642