K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited didnt tell them they had 
home emergency cover when they called for assistance with a leak at their property. They 
say this caused them inconvenience and financial loss.
As most of our contact has been  with Mr H Ill keep things simple  by referring only to him in 
my decision.  
background
There was a leak at Mr Hs home, and he called Lloyds as he thought  he had a home 
emergency policy in place. In that call Mr H tells Lloyds he has a water leak at his property, 
that hed like someone to look at the problem and fix it, and that his neighbour wants him to 
pay for damage the leak has caused to their property.  The agent explains Mr Hs contents 
insurance wont cover the leak,  and that Mr H doesnt have a buildings  insurance policy  with 
Lloyds. 
Mr H says Lloyds should have told him he had home  emergency cover, as he would  then 
have been able to have  a plumber visit for free. Mr H says that because Lloyds told him he 
only had a contents insurance  policy, he arranged  and paid £442  for a plumber to visit and 
make repairs. 
A few days  later Mr H checked  his insurance documents and saw that he did in fact have 
home emergency cover. Though it had been sold to him by Lloyds  and carried  its branding,  
the policy was underwritten by a separate  business,  which Ill call the underwriter. Mr H 
says he called the underwriter but it wouldnt reimburse his plumbing  costs  because he 
hadnt contacted it within 48 hours of discovering the leak. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair so he called Lloyds to complain. In that call, the agent  put him 
on hold while she spoke  to the home emergency  department. By doing this the agent was 
able to confirm  that Mr H did indeed have a home  emergency policy. 
In its final response Lloyds said Mr H hadnt  asked about home  emergency  cover when he 
first called Lloyds. It said it doesnt  administer these home emergency policies, so its system  
doesnt hold information that would have allowed the agent to check  whether Mr H had this 
cover. But it agreed  the agent  could  have asked Mr H if he had home emergency cover, as 
this mightve prompted Mr H to check his own records.
Mr H was still unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service.  After looking into it, our 
investigator said that since Lloyds sold home emergency cover, its agents should be aware 
that customers might have this cover  (with  another provider) even  if Lloyds own system 
doesnt show it. She thought the agent should  have  asked Mr H if he had home emergency 
cover or checked further with the underwriter on Mr Hs behalf. To put things right she asked  
Lloyds to pay Mr H £442 for his plumbing  costs as well as £100 compensation for his 
inconvenience.
Lloyds said it disagreed because: 
Mr H didnt mention the home emergency  policy in his initial  call to Lloyds
the Lloyds  agent had no reason to think of home  emergency  cover
Ref: DRN79124382Lloyds doesnt  hold records for that home emergency cover   and the policy  documents 
would have directed Mr H to call the underwriter (as he did a few days later)
If Mr H had contacted the underwriter  of his home emergency cover  in time, the 
underwriter wouldve sent a plumber to stop the leak but Mr H would still have  had to 
pay for any subsequent  plumbing  repairs if the leak wasnt  covered by the policy
Lloyds has no say over whether the underwriter accepts his claim, but Mr H can raise a 
complaint with the underwriter if he wishes to pursue  this matter
Lloyds cant be held responsible for Mr H not keeping copies of his insurance 
documents to hand
So our investigator looked  into this, and contacted  the underwriter.  It said that this claim 
wouldnt have been covered under the policy, as it didnt meet  the definition  of an emergency  
under the policy  terms. 
Our investigator assessed the underwriters evidence, and that of Mr H, and agreed that he 
didnt think that the claim would  have been covered. Because  of this, he thought  that even if 
Mr H had contacted  the underwriter within  48 hours, it would have declined  his claim. Mr H 
and the underwriter didnt provide any further  comments or evidence  about the investigators 
conclusions. 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 June 2019 and I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive thought about whether Lloyds  made  an error when  Mr H first called it about the leak,  and 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr H and Lloyds.  While home emergency cover isnt 
explicitly talked about in that first call, Mr H clearly says he has an emergency situation at his 
home that hed like help with - thats  what prompted his call in the first place.  I think the 
agent could and should have recognised  that what Mr H was really calling about  was the 
emergency at his home.
The policy and renewal  documents  provided  by Mr H and the underwriter show his home 
emergency policy was sold and branded by Lloyds. Lloyds has explained it doesnt hold 
records for these policies as they are underwritten by a separate  business. But Ive heard 
that when Mr H called Lloyds a second  time,  the agent put him on hold while she spoke to 
the home emergency department. By doing this the agent was able to confirm that Mr H did 
indeed have a home emergency  policy. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that while Lloyds may not record  information  on its own systems 
about the home emergency policies it sells, it can find out quite easily  whether  or not a 
customer has such a policy. Since Mr H was clearly calling about  an emergency at his home 
and Lloyds sold home emergency  policies,  I think the agent  in Mr Hs first call could have  
contacted the home emergency  department to check whether he had such a policy  as the 
agent in his second call did.
Mr H says he ended that call believing  he didnt have  home  emergency  cover, which wasnt  
in fact the case. And he says that because of this, he arranged  and paid for his own 
plumber. But he would  have  needed  to do this in any case,  and Ill explain why.
Its important to note that while Lloyds sold a home  emergency policy to Mr H, it doesnt 
administer that policy and isnt responsible for deciding  claims on it - the underwriter does  
Ref: DRN79124383this. So even if Lloyds  had checked and told Mr H he had a home  emergency  policy,  I think it 
would have also told him to contact the underwriter. 
Based on the policy terms and the information  available, the underwriter thought  the claim 
wasnt likely to have been covered   and our investigator agreed. Mr H hasnt commented 
on the underwriters  conclusions, or our investigators view.  On balance, I think  its likely 
Mr H wouldnt  have been covered for this leak under his home emergency policy.  
Mr H has said hes been put to inconvenience in having  to find his own plumber, but I think  
Mr H is in the position he would always have been in. He would always have had to arrange  
and pay for his own plumber. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to ask Lloyds to 
reimburse Mr H for the cost of his plumber 
I think this would always have been  the position,  no matter what happened in his first call 
with Lloyds. There was no delay to Mr H in finding someone to make repairs  at home 
Therefore Im not intending  to ask Lloyds to do anything further.
Mr H didnt provide any comments on my provisional decision. 
Lloyds asked for clarification about the outcome of Mr Hs complaint, which  our investigator 
provided. But it didnt  provide any comments about the merits of the complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H and Lloyds havent provided any further  information about the merits of this 
complaint, I see no reason to change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and also above, Im not asking  Lloyds to 
do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7912438