K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Evolution Insurance Company Limited failed to assist  him and recover 
his car when  it broke down while on holiday in Europe. 
background
In August  2018,  Mr Ls car broke down while in Europe. He called Evolution to arrange  
recovery under his insurance breakdown  cover. He says they were unable  to help him and 
told him there was no one available to assist him that day as it was after 4pm on Sunday. He 
was unhappy  with the customer service  he received from Evolution and that they didnt make  
the call backs they promised him. 
Mr L says it was a hot day and when no help was forthcoming, and without estimated 
timescales on when  it might be, he made  the decision to go to a hotel with his two children. 
He says he parked  his car in the local village expecting to be able to get his car repaired the 
following day at a local garage.  Having  to move the car resulted in further damage to the 
wheels which he says wouldnt  have happened  if Evolution had assisted in recovering the 
car to the garage. So he feels  they should  reimburse him for the damage to his car. He says 
the delays of over 3 hours in the conditions he faced were  unreasonable particularly as no 
estimated arrival time for recovery was being given.  
Evolution says they didnt  cancel the recovery; this was cancelled  by Mr L as he said he 
would arrange  the repairs himself. They say they dont give exact recovery times as these 
vary from day to day depending on the individual circumstances of each situation and on the 
availability of those  carrying out the recovery. They say they have acted in accordance  with 
the breakdown  cover  and havent done anything wrong. They agreed to cover  the cost of 
overnight stay of up to £75 per person up to a maximum  of £250 and also the cost of car hire 
of £50 per day up to a maximum  of 2 days. 
Mr L doesnt accept  this and wants to be reimbursed  for his vehicle damage, his hotel stay 
and the taxis he has had to use to get to the hotel. He also wants  to be compensated for the 
level of service he received. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint against Evolution. He said that Evolution didnt 
make any promises about  how long recovery would take and that Mr L had misinterpreted 
the policy. He also confirmed that repairs for the vehicle were still Mr Ls responsibility  as  
stated in the policy terms.
Mr L didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr L but Im not upholding this complaint. I will explain why. 
I have looked  at the policy terms to see what Evolution have said they will do. 
If your vehicle  suffers a breakdown  which  occurs  during the course of a journey, 
service will be provided.  We will provide cover for any breakdown  in accordance  with 
the policy wording  and any costs involved with the roadside assistance  or recovery to 
the nearest suitable garage.
Ref: DRN71373842The policy doesnt  say how long Evolution  will take to get to where youve broken down. So 
Ive had to think  about whether what it did was reasonable in these particular circumstances.
This was a Sunday afternoon,  and Evolution  were  reliant on being able to find a local 
repairer/engineer who could  attend Mr Ls breakdown. It took Evolution  some time to 
establish Mr Ls exact location  and was actively trying to arrange for someone to come to 
see Mr L. I havent seen  anything that would  suggest this wasnt the case.  While being  stuck 
at the side of the road will undoubtedly have been  upsetting for Mr L, it wouldnt  be fair to 
hold Evolution  responsible for the general upset breaking down abroad causes. Im satisfied 
they took steps to get someone to Mr L as quick  as they could. That it took longer than Mr L 
was willing  to wait isnt, in my view, indicative that it acted unfairly or took unduly long to deal 
with his claim. Mr L then cancelled the recovery, and Evolutions  attempts to help him only 
stopped at that point.
I have listened  to all the calls provided by Evolution. Whilst I agree with Mr L that there  are 
incomplete call recordings and potentially  some missing calls,  I am satisfied that Evolution 
have made  every effort possible to retrieve these but are unable  to do so. So I am making  
my decision  based  on the evidence  that I do have available and on balance what is most 
likely to have happened. There is nothing to suggest  that Evolution were  unable to help him 
 they were just unable  to confirm how long it would take. The fact that there  are several  
calls discussing  recovery persuades me that on balance the attempts to recover did continue  
until Mr L cancelled it. 
Mr L wants Evolution to cover the cost of repairs to his car as he believes the additional 
damage to the car has been  as a result of him having to move the vehicle which he wouldnt 
have had to do if Evolution had assisted  him. The term in the policy is clear that all repair 
costs will be the responsibility  of the insured.  Although  I fully understand why he did so, the 
fact that Mr L made the choice to move  the car instead of waiting for recovery  was a decision 
he has made. As explained  above, it was Mr L who cancelled the recovery instead of waiting 
so I cant hold Evolution responsible for any additional damage that may have occurred as a 
result.  
Mr L also wants his accommodation and travel costs reimbursed in full. The general 
exclusions in the policy terms  and conditions state  Any charges where you, having 
contacted us, effect recovery or repairs by other means unless we have agreed to reimburse 
you. As Mr l cancelled  the recovery, and no reimbursement  had been  agreed,  Evolution are 
not liable  for any further charges. However, they have agreed  to pay Mr L his travel costs,  
his accommodation  costs of £75 per person up to a maximum of £250 and any car hire costs 
up to £50 per day for two days. I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision but under 
the circumstances I think  this offer is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Evolution Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137384