K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB)  mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 2010  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  solely for Mr C for accident and sickness  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £9.00 a month.  
At the time,  Mr C was self-employed as a fireplace  installer. He has told us he was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage should  
he be unable  to work. Mr C has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Mrs C was employed in office  and clerical work.  Mrs C hasnt given us any details about her 
employee benefits (she worked part-time) but as the policy  was for the sole benefit of Mr C, 
Ill mostly be considering  his circumstances at the time of the sale.  Mrs C has said she was 
in good health at the time of the sale. 
NWB has sent us screenshots to show  that the mortgage account  is still running. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
NWB  failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.                     
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NWB should have 
told Mr and Mrs C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NWB should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN76713622The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So, the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
Ref: DRN76713623a result,  its appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NWB, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NWB was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NWB gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN76713624-Whether NWB gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of            
Mr and Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent                  
Mr and Mrs C suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and NWB, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
NWB had to make  it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs Cs recollection is that they were  told they had to have the policy.  They  say they 
were pressured and rushed by the adviser.  If that hadnt have happened  theyve  said they 
wouldnt have taken  the policy. 
NWB has been able to give us some of the paperwork from the time of the sale including  the 
mortgage application itself as well as the PPI application. I see from the mortgage  
application a box has been marked with a cross  by hand and which is followed by You want  
to apply for Mortgage  Repayment Protector  through NatWest. And there was another  box 
immediately below, as prominent as the one above,  which could have been crossed if        
Mr and Mrs C hadnt wanted  to take the policy.
The PPI application  form was separate from the mortgage  application  itself and I see that the 
type of cover  has been ticked   accident  and sickness only  and the monthly amount of 
benefit has been chosen. The monthly  cost of the policy has been written  by hand.              
Mr and Mrs C also had to complete a direct  debit mandate for the PPI. So, while                  
Mr and Mrs C say they were rushed into taking the PPI  and Im aware that pressure is 
subjective  I think  from the paperwork Ive seen  that its most likely Mr and Mrs C knew they 
did have a choice  and had the opportunity  not to take if they hadnt  wanted the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs C knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NWB provide  advice?
NWB says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs C disagree. Looking  at what  
happened when  NWB sold Mr and Mrs C the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
I have referred again to the mortgage application and at the beginning of that form there is a 
section entitled  Giving your agreement. Below that a box has been  ticked to say, You have 
not been given advice . And while I appreciate that statement  refers  to the mortgage itself, I 
wouldnt expect to see that statement and then advice to be given for the PPI which was sold 
at the same  meeting. So, I think it most likely  that advice wasnt given. 
Ref: DRN76713625This means  NWB didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs C to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr C 
was unable to work  through accident or sickness) and of the approximate costs. Ive reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have taken  out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NWB  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
So, I dont think NWB gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like                
Mr and Mrs Cs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NWB ought to have done  either.  
what effect did NWBs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did        
Mr and Mrs C suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN76713626Ive found NWB didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs C. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and Mrs C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not            
Mr and Mrs C would  have still taken out the policy, had NWB done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs C say they would not have taken  it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs C had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr C being unable to work because of accident and sickness. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs C chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what  Mr and 
Mrs C thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs C have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs C were given  about  the cost and benefit  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  NWB  made  clear  exactly  what  Mr and Mrs C would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Cs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his ability,  education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs C pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy was not as good as they thought, and they might  have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from 
taking out the policy.  
Ref: DRN76713627The evidence about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although   Mr C was self-employed when  the 
PPI was taken out, this wouldnt have  impacted on him being  able to use the policy as he 
selected accident and sickness cover only. He would have still been able to claim on the 
policy if he wasnt well enough to work. And I havent seen any evidence  to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. So, I still think  they had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C was unable  to do both 
his own job and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers  view he might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr C was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he would  be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
NWB may not have told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but they 
didnt have any other means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr C be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr C was unable  to work through the accident  or disability. In 
the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C would have taken  out 
the policy in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN76713628Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account                    
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr and Mrs C found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position  
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude NWB should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would  put them in a better  
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think NWB  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NWBs statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why NWB failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NWB gave Mr and Mrs C, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2010  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find NWB negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NWB had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN76713629my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7671362