K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains AXA insurance UK Plc has unfairly reduced the settlement balance he is 
owed following a claim he made on his landlords  insurance policy.  
background
In November 2017 Mr B made a claim on his landlords insurance  policy. His tenant  had 
stopped paying rent, and Mr B had taken the matter to court to get an eviction  notice. When  
the tenant left the property they stole some items and left a fridge freezer unplugged which  
caused water to leak into the kitchen. The claim was for the stolen items, the clearing up of 
the leak, and for a lock that had been damaged.  
AXA initially  declined the claim as it said regular visits hadnt been  made  to the property, but 
it later accepted this hadnt been possible due to the tenant not cooperating. So it agreed  to 
cover the claim for the stolen items, the leak and the lock. But AXA said the damage to the 
property and stolen  items  were something  Mr B could use tenants security deposit for. So 
once it factored in the security deposit  and the excess payable, it offered Mr B around £50 
as a settlement.  
The lock was covered under a separate section  of the policy, and the claim payment didnt 
exceed the excess amount, so AXA didnt make  an offer for this.
Mr B complained to AXA. He said hed used the security deposit to cover the rent that hadnt 
been paid by the tenant, as well as the costs hed incurred in taking the matter  to court. He 
also said there wasnt anything in the policy wording  that said the security deposit  would be 
taken into account  when paying a claim.  He said this in effect increased the excess of the 
policy. Mr B also complained that AXA had taken too long to review  the claim and had sent 
correspondence to the wrong address. AXA reviewed  the terms of the tenancy  agreement 
but didnt agree to change its mind.
Our investigator didnt  think AXA had done  anything wrong in reducing the settlement 
amount by the security deposit. He noted  the tenancy agreement  said the security deposit  
could be kept as a result of damage to the property, but it didnt say it could be kept for rent. 
So it was right that AXA took this into account  when offering  the settlement. 
But he noted  that AXA had originally declined the claim  unfairly, and this had caused  Mr B 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. He also noted emails  werent  responded to and it 
took three months  to accept the claim due to AXAs initial  rejection. So he recommended  it 
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mr B.  
AXA accepted the recommendation of £100  but Mr B didnt agree. He said the tenant was 
three months in arrears when he left the property. He also said the tenancy agreement 
ended in July 2017 and the claim was made in November 2017,  so the security deposit 
wasnt relevant. As Mr B didnt agree, the matter  has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator, Ill explain why below.
Ref: DRN71759832I understand Mr Bs frustration at the situation he finds himself in as a result  of his tenant. 
But Ive reviewed the tenancy agreement  alongside Mr Bs policy  document  and I dont think  
AXA need  to pay him anymore.
When Mr Bs tenant signed the tenancy agreement, he also agreed  to pay a security deposit  
of £625. The tenancy agreement says the landlord can make deductions to the deposit for 
several things. Damage  beyond reasonable wear and tear is one of these. Theres no doubt 
that the tenant did this. But given Mr B has kept the full deposit then I think AXA has been 
reasonable in taking  it into consideration  when making the settlement for damage  under the 
policy. I accept Mr B didnt claim until the tenancy  agreement had ended,  but I dont think 
this makes a difference. The damage  was caused by the tenant whilst he was in the property 
and the claim was as a result of that, so it doesnt  matter when the tenancy agreement 
ended.
Mr B says hes used the deposit towards  the rental areas. But the tenancy agreement 
doesnt give rental arrears as one of the things the security deposit can be kept to cover.  
And there is nothing else in the tenancy  agreement which suggests Mr B can retain the 
security deposit if the tenant didnt pay rent. Mr B is correct that the policy wording doesnt 
say the security deposit must be used before a claim  payment is made.  But the purpose of 
the insurance is to protect against  any losses. And the security deposit was taken in case 
the tenant did cause damage  to the property. So I think its fair this is claimed before the 
insurance has to cover  any remaining losses. Which in this case  amounts to the £50 its 
already paid.
I appreciate Mr B hasnt  been able to recover all of his losses,  both in terms of loss of rent 
and legal fees for the court action. But I dont think hes entitled  to anything more  from AXA.  
Mr Bs policy  doesnt cover him having  to take court action. AXA has agreed to pay for the 
damage covered  under  the policy, minus the excess. So I dont think  AXA needs to pay 
anymore to settle the claim.
But I do agree  AXA could have handled the claim better. The claim was initially unfairly 
rejected and Mr B had to go to the inconvenience of providing more evidence, when I think 
the claim should have  been accepted  from the start. Some of his emails werent responded 
to and in total it took three months  for AXA to agree to settle the claim.  I think  this did cause 
him unnecessary distress  and inconvenience,  so I think AXA should pay £100 for this.
my final decision
My final decision is I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr B £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7175983