K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) has unfairly settled a claim under his 
car insurance policy.
background
In September  2017 Mr Ms was involved in a collision with another  vehicle in a supermarket 
car park. Mr M said while he was reversing into a bay a third party vehicle approached at 
high speed and on the wrong side of the road,  hitting his car.
Mr M contacted Aviva  shortly  after,  but said he then heard nothing back for around a year.  
He said he then discovered the claim  had been  settled as a fault claim as he was completing 
a manoeuvre at the time.  He said Aviva failed  to take into account the wider circumstances 
of the incident,  such  as the third partys  speed and road position.  And he said he wouldve 
provided more evidence and detail had he known of the dispute. Mr M also said he was left 
without any repairs to his car. And he said Aviva should reinstate his no claims bonus as well 
as arrange for the damage to his car to be repaired.
Aviva acknowledged  it shouldve contacted Mr M much earlier than it did, and after 
reconsidering the claim it disagreed it had prejudiced his position. It offered Mr M £200 to 
compensate him for delays and poor communication throughout the claim.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into what  
happened. She explained that under the terms of the policy,  Aviva  has the ability  to choose 
how to settle a claim  which it did in this case.
The investigator thought about  the impact  of Aviva not speaking  to Mr M until around a year 
after the incident. She said Mr M had confirmed there was no dash-cam  footage or 
witnesses from the time. So she wasnt persuaded Mr Ms comments, or further  photos  of 
the scene, wouldve changed the outcome  of the claim. But she did agree Aviva  shouldve 
provided more updates  to Mr M and felt the £200  was fair to compensate for the trouble and 
upset caused  by this.
Mr M disagreed and reiterated that his position  had been prejudiced  by lack of contact from 
Aviva. So the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
When considering  this complaint, my role is to decide whether Aviva  has handled Mr Ms 
claim fairly and in line with its policy terms  not to decide liability on the incident  itself. And 
in doing so, Ive thought about  Avivas  obligations  under  ICOBS  8.1 which  says it must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
Ref: DRN77997062(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Aviva has acknowledged  it failed to contact Mr M for around a year after he initially logged  
his claim online. So I think its failed to provide appropriate information on the progress of the 
claim as it shouldve. Ive then thought about the impact this delay and lack of 
communication has had on Mr M and the claim itself. 
Mr Ms insurance policy says:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in your name or that of the person claiming  
under the policy  the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our own 
benefit to recover  any payment  we have made under this policy.
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any 
claim.
This means  Aviva has full control of the claim  so it would  be its decision to settle it as it 
sees fit. But Mr M feels the absence of his input led to the claim being  settled  against  him. 
In September  2018 Aviva  reconsidered the claim in light of the information Mr M had 
provided. Mr M has confirmed there  were  no witnesses  to the incident, nor was there  any 
dash-cam footage that could be provided. So based  on his more detailed description  it 
looked again  speaking  to its own experts and the third party  insurer.
The third party insurer still felt Mr M was responsible  for the incident as it said he was 
completing a manoeuvre and pulled into the third party driver who had been proceeding 
correctly. And Avivas loss prevention agreed  that it would still settle this claim as 100% fault 
as the case was unlikely to succeed  if taken to court.  I think given the conflicting  accounts of 
what happened and the evidence available, this was a fair decision in the circumstances.
Im very sympathetic to Mr Ms situation, and I can appreciate how strongly  he feels  about  
this claim.  However as Ive outlined, the decision on how to defend  or settle a claim  is not his 
to make.  And in this case Im satisfied Avivas delay and inaction hasnt impacted the 
outcome of this claim.
Its not in dispute  that Aviva shouldve spoken to Mr M throughout the life of the claim to 
keep him updated.  And I imagine it was very disappointing for Mr M to be told the outcome 
of his claim so long after he made it. But overall I cant ignore  that a degree of 
disappointment was inevitable as the claim wasnt settled in Mr Ms favour. And because I 
dont think Avivas lack of communication wouldve changed how the claim was settled, Im 
satisfied the £200 offer it has made is fair. And Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7799706