K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold her a mortgage product. She 
wants to be able to repay  the mortgage  early  without paying an early  repayment charge 
(ERC).
background
Miss L had a residential mortgage with Nationwide, with a mortgage  product. When the 
product was coming to an end, Miss L applied for a fixed interest  rate product, but said that 
she told Nationwide that her circumstances were going to change  and shed then want to 
remortgage and buy a second  property.  Miss L said that Nationwide  told her that after a year 
shed be able to transfer (port)  the mortgage to a new property and mentioned that it had a 
sister company, T, which could assist with a remortgage of the original property. 
But when Miss L wanted  to port to a new property and remortgage the original property, she 
said that Nationwide told her that she could  only do so if she got the buy-to-let mortgage 
from T. Miss L wasnt happy as she felt the rates  offered  were  too high, the amount which 
could be lent was too low and that Nationwide  was putting barriers in her way e.g. to see key 
information about the remortgage of the original property. She said that if shed known the 
full facts, she wouldnt have taken out the product in 2017.
Miss L complained to Nationwide. It said that Miss L was told in 2017  that if she wanted to 
buy a second  property and let out the existing  property,  she could take out a buy-to-let 
mortgage with T and port the existing product to the new residential property. Nationwide 
also said Miss L was told before taking out the 2017 product that if she just wanted  to rent 
out her existing property,  that could be agreed but the interest  rate would be increased  and it 
wouldnt be possible to borrow more while the property was rented out.
Nationwide said that while it couldve  been  clearer that buy-to-let mortgages were only 
available through T, it didnt think Miss L wouldve acted differently in the circumstances as 
she wasnt certain what her future  held.  It noted  T was mentioned  but said that its staff could 
only give advice on precise situations  and outlined  options when matters were  unclear. 
Nationwide offered as a gesture of goodwill to let Miss L port the mortgage product and let 
her go elsewhere for a buy-to-let mortgage for the existing  property.  But it said if she just 
paid the mortgage early, it would charge the ERC. Miss L didnt want  to stay with Nationwide  
as she found cheaper  products elsewhere,  but wanted to be able to leave without paying the 
ERC.
Miss L complained to us. The investigators  view was that Nationwides  advice at the time 
when Miss L took out the mortgage product in 2017  was reasonable; it couldnt advise on 
uncertain information from Miss L. The investigator  didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably  in relation to its offer to resolve the matter. She said that its requests for 
information about the original property for the new buy-to-let mortgage  were reasonable to 
ensure that it understood the up-to-date position  as it would still be Miss Ls lender for the 
new property. The investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything  wrong.
Miss L disagreed. While she accepted much of what the investigator had said, she felt that 
Nationwide shouldve been clearer that the buy-to-let mortgage had to be with T in order  to 
port the residential mortgage to a new property. The investigator  said that Miss L had been 
told this, and pointed  out that later Miss L talked about just getting consent to let the original 
property. Miss L said Nationwides offer was unworkable, but the investigator disagreed.
Ref: DRN74316012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERCs are lawful if theyre a genuine  pre-estimate  of the loss the lender will suffer  if the 
mortgage is repaid  early  and set out clearly in the mortgage offer accepted by the consumer. 
Miss L hasnt challenged either of these points. I should point out that the consumer only 
gets the benefit of the fixed  interest rate because the lender has entered  into contracts itself 
to ensure the funding is available for the range of mortgages that it offers; early repayment 
therefore can cause  financial  loss. The mortgage offer also makes it clear  that porting is 
subject to Nationwides lending policies and isnt guaranteed.
Miss Ls point is that she wouldnt  have taken  out the product in 2017 if shed known that the 
ability to port the mortgage product and remortgage  the original property was limited  to the 
extent that any buy-to-let mortgage  had to come from T. But its relevant to bear in mind that 
when Miss L was talking  to Nationwide, she didnt know what she was going  to do in the 
future for certain, so it isnt fair or reasonable to expect Nationwide  to give detailed  advice 
about all possible options, particularly as Miss L then said that she might just rent out her 
original property according to the contact notes and call recordings. T was mentioned as the 
provider of buy-to-let  mortgages for Nationwide, as was its limits on lending.  I think  Miss L 
wouldve proceeded with the 2017  product even if Nationwide had spelt  out in detail its 
lending policies in the circumstances, something  which lenders arent required to do. I dont 
think Nationwide is at fault in relation to the 2017 product sale.
Nationwides lending  policies  say that to port the mortgage to a new property, and keep the 
original property under a buy-to-let mortgage,  the buy to let mortgage  must be with T. 
Lenders are able to make  commercial judgements and set out their lending  policies, 
provided that they apply those policies fairly and reasonably to customers. In Miss Ls case,  
unless she took out the buy-to-let mortgage with T, the residential mortgage wasnt  portable 
under Nationwides lending policies.
But Nationwide offered to waive this policy for Miss L and let her port the residential 
mortgage anyway,  even though it wasnt at fault.  The problem is that Miss L didnt want  to do 
this as she felt that she could  get a better deal elsewhere and that Nationwide had created 
barriers. This doesnt have anything to do with the original complaint  Miss L says that if 
shed known in 2017 that her buy-to-let mortgage  would  had to come from T, rather  than 
other lender, she wouldnt have  taken out the product in 2017. Nationwide  has offered to 
allow Miss L to do exactly that. Its her choice to refuse and repay the mortgage  early. And I 
dont think Nationwide  has created barriers  it simply wants  to know  the position regarding  
the original property and its rental as that might affect Miss Ls ability to repay the residential 
mortgage for the second property in the future. This is reasonable.
Ref: DRN74316013my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision before 
3 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7431601