K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  declined  their claim 
for storm  damage under the home  insurance policy.
background
After a storm Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds to make a claim. Lloyds appointed experts (C) 
to inspect and validate the claim.  C produced a report to say the damage  was due to 
gradually operating  causes and Lloyds declined the claim. Lloyds said there was no 
insurable damage evident.  Mr and Mrs W didnt accept this and brought  their complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld  their complaint. She said based on our usual  approach to storm 
cases there were storm conditions, the damage was consistent  with what youd expect from 
a storm, and that storm was the main cause of the damage. In terms of gradual damage our 
investigator said it was clear Mr and Mrs W wouldve  been  completely unaware that any of 
the timber was in poor condition. She said it wasnt fair for Lloyds to apply this exclusion and 
it should deal with the claim. She concluded that if Mr and Mrs W had already paid out for 
the repairs Lloyds  should add 8% simple interest  from the date of repair  payment to the date 
of settlement.
Lloyds didnt accept  this and asked for the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
were there storm conditions on or around  the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
In relation to question  one I dont think theres any doubt that a storm took place. The local 
wind speeds were  up at 62mph. So the answer to question one is yes.
Its clear that the fascia and guttering was ripped away  from the rest of the building. So the 
damage is consistent with storm and the answer to question two is yes.
The third question seems to be the point Lloyds are contesting. It said that the wood was 
rotten and so the storm was just highlighting an existing gradual problem. But only one 
section ripped off in the storm. Lloyds said the part that had ripped off was a more sheltered  
area of the property.  I think Lloyds suggesting this rather defeats its own argument.  If I 
accept the point about it being the most sheltered part then Lloyds  would also accept that 
the wood here would be in better  condition  than the wood at the more exposed  parts  of the 
house. To me this just highlights  that the damage  was caused by the storm. The damage is 
consistent with what youd expect after a storm. The rest of the fascia,  wood and guttering is 
Ref: DRN76148592still in place and functioning. But for the storm it all would be. Despite Lloyds point I think  the 
storm was the main cause  of the damage  so the answer  to question three is yes.
Based on the three answers  I think Lloyds decision to decline the claim is unreasonable.
In terms of Lloyds point about gradually operating damage it accepts that the work to the 
property regarding the fascias was done before  Mr and Mrs W owned the house. Mr and Mrs 
W had no knowledge of the wood or its condition until the storm damage occurred. In this 
case only at the point of needing to claim would Mr and Mrs W have become aware of any 
problem. So I think its fair for Lloyds  to pay the claim damage as it was caused by the storm.
Based on the evidence  I think Lloyds should  be dealing with the storm damage  claim. If 
Mr and Mrs W have  already  had the damage  repaired Lloyds should add 8% simple interest 
per year to the claim settlement. This should apply from the date Mr and Mrs W paid for the 
repairs up to the date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to:
pay the claim for storm damage.
add interest* of 8% simple per year to the claim settlement amount Mr and Mrs W have 
already paid for repairs from the date they paid for it until settlement date.
*If Lloyds  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019. 
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7614859