K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about charges applied to her account by Santander UK Plc.
background
Ms C has a current account with Santander.  In 2017, a change in her circumstances meant  
that there  wasnt always enough  money in her account to cover  her outgoings. On some 
occasions, Santander refused to allow payments to go out. At other times, they allowed  
payments to be made and the account  went into an unarranged overdraft. In both scenarios, 
Santander applied  charges to Ms Cs account.  
When Ms C complained to Santander about  this, they said the charges had been applied 
correctly under their terms and conditions. Ms C wasnt  happy  with their response  so she 
brought her complaint  to this service. She says shes  experiencing financial  difficulty and that 
the charges are causing her hardship. She says she hasnt  been  treated fairly by Santander 
and that theyve never offered her any help or advice. Shes also unhappy that they allowed 
her account  to go overdrawn when she didnt have  an agreed overdraft facility.
Our adjudicator thought that Santander had applied  the charges correctly, so she didnt ask 
them to do anything. But Ms C didnt agree so she asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By opening and continuing to use her account, Ms C agreed to be bound by Santanders 
terms and conditions. So Ive started by looking at what they say about  situations where 
there arent enough  funds in the account  to cover  payments. Ive also looked at how and 
when Santander  can apply charges.
The terms and conditions  say that, where  a customer tries to make a payment (including an 
automated payment such as a Direct Debit) or withdraw funds but doesnt have enough 
money in the account, Santander will automatically treat this as a request for an unarranged 
overdraft. Its not necessary for the customer to contact Santander - the activity on their 
account means theyre automatically treated as having made  the request.  
Because Ms C didnt  have an arranged overdraft, each time she tried to make payments  or 
withdraw funds without having enough  money  available,  Santander  treated  it as a request for 
an unarranged  overdraft. Under  the terms and conditions, they could either agree to the 
request or refuse it by either making  or refusing to make the payment.
The terms and conditions  allow Santander to charge a usage fee for each day that Ms C is 
using an unarranged overdraft. They can also charge a fee each time they allow or refuse  a 
payment when there isnt enough money  in the account. 
Its clear from the terms and conditions that its Santanders decision whether to make  or 
refuse a payment. And each time a payment is requested without funds being in place, its 
treated as a new request for an unarranged  overdraft. So each request can be agreed or 
refused independently.
Ref: DRN71553342In light of the above, I find that Santander were acting in line with their terms and conditions 
by treating the activity on Ms Cs account as requests for unarranged overdrafts. They  were  
allowed to make some payments and refuse others  in the way they did and to charge  fees 
each time it happened.
The amount  of the fees is set out in the Key Facts  Document  for Ms Cs account.  The terms 
and conditions set a cap on the monthly  fee which  Santander can charge and the cap was 
reduced in October  2018. From the information  Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Santander have 
applied the charges correctly here.  
Santanders final response letter says that they can offer one goodwill gesture in the form of 
a refund of the charges applied in one statement period.  They say this has already 
happened in Ms Cs case, so they cant offer any further refund. Santander  refunded fees to 
Ms C in July and August 2017. That was before  Ms C raised  this complaint, so it wasnt a 
gesture made by Santander in response  to this. However, as Im satisfied that theyve 
applied the charges correctly, Im not minded to ask them to make any further  refunds.
 
But I do need to consider  what  Santander knew about Ms Cs financial position. Where a 
customer is experiencing financial difficulties, I would expect a bank  to treat them positively 
and sympathetically. Ms C says she called  Santander on numerous occasions  to explain her 
financial position and ask for help.  But Santander say they cant find any evidence of Ms C 
telling them about financial difficulties  prior to this complaint.
Santander say that there arent  any call recordings available, so I havent been able to listen  
to any conversations. But theyve explained  that their staff follow strict  guidelines when 
speaking to customers and that, if its thought the customer  is experiencing financial 
difficulty, they would be referred  to a specialist  financial assistance  team  straight away. 
Santander did refund  fees to Ms C in July and August 2017. Ms C has confirmed  that the 
reason she contacted them at that time was because she didnt recognise the fee entries on 
her statement and wanted to query what they were.  From the information Ive seen, I dont 
think that contact would have been enough to make  Santander aware that Ms C was 
experiencing financial difficulties. And Im satisfied that they have policies in place for 
identifying this. I havent seen anything which indicates that they identified Ms C as needing 
to be referred to their specialist team or which confirms that she raised financial hardship 
with them  before bringing this complaint.
So I need to look at whether there  was anything else which should have alerted Santander 
that Ms C was experiencing financial difficulty.  In a situation where  the customer doesnt 
specifically tell the bank theyre  in financial difficulty, I would still expect the bank to realise  
this if there  are other  signs that the customer is struggling. But the fact that someone is 
regularly using an overdraft (whether planned or unplanned) doesnt in itself indicate 
financial difficulty. Ive looked at Ms Cs bank statements but I havent  seen  anything  which  I 
think should have  alerted  Santander that she was in financial  difficulty  and shouldve made 
them act differently. 
Having considered the available  evidence, I dont think Santander couldve had any reason 
to suspect Ms C was in financial difficulty before she brought her complaint.
Ms C says she has never been offered any help or advice by Santander. She also says she 
hadnt received  any text alerts about overdraft  activity on her account before she made  this 
Ref: DRN71553343complaint. Im satisfied  that Santander  have  been  sending text alerts  to Ms C since February 
2018. So I cant safely conclude its their fault if she didnt receive  some  of them. In response 
to this complaint,  Santander have invited Ms C to contact their financial support team.  
I know Ms C feels strongly and will find this disappointing, but I think  Santander  have applied  
the charges correctly, in line with their terms and conditions. And I dont think  theyve acted 
unfairly, so Im not going  to ask them to do anything here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7155334