K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Santander  UK Plc wouldnt let them take out a new interest rate 
product in 2014. Mr G called Santander to discuss taking out a new interest rate product. He 
was offered a series  of interest rate deals  only to then be told he couldnt have a two year 
product as there only had three years left to run on the interest only mortgage.
Mr and Mrs G repaid  their mortgage in 2016  having  sold their property.  Mr and Mrs G say, 
having reverted  to the standard  variable rate (SVR), they struggled to pay their mortgage  
and were forced to sell their home.
background
In February 2014  Mr G contacted Santander.  He wanted to see what  interest rate products 
were available because  his existing product was shortly to expire.  Mr G was told various 
products were available  to him. Mr G says he wanted to go ahead with a two year tracker 
deal but he was then told he couldnt  have it after all. Mr G recalls he was told he couldnt  
have the two year product because he only had three years  remaining on his interest  only 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs G say they struggled to pay the mortgage after their interest rate reverted onto 
Santanders SVR.  All through 2015 they tried to sell their property. In 2016 they managed to 
find a buyer  and repaid the mortgage  in full in October 2016.  The mortgage had been  due to 
expire in 2017.  
In 2018 Mr and Mrs G complained to Santander.  They complain they were unfairly withheld 
access to a lower rate of interest on their mortgage  from 2014.  Santander  didnt uphold  the 
complaint, and it issued  a series of responses to Mr and Mrs G from July to October 2018. In 
summary, Santander said there wasnt evidence to support Mr Gs recollection of the reason  
why he didnt go ahead with a new product in 2014.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with Santanders response and brought  their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint, but didnt think  it should be upheld. Mr 
G strongly disagreed  with the investigators  findings and asked that an ombudsman consider 
the matter again.  This complaint has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What complicates matters  with this complaint is the lack of evidence  about what exactly  was 
discussed between  Mr G and Santander in 2014.  A call recording of the discussion on 15 
February 2014 is not available. I dont think this is unusual due to the length  of time thats 
passed between  the conversation and the date the complaint was made.
In the absence of a call recording,  Ive looked  for other evidence  to support what Mr G 
recollects of his discussion with Santander  in February 2014. There isnt a call transcript, 
and there  arent detailed  call notes  made  by Santander. All Santanders records say is that 
Mr G was looking for information. A second note is made in the account history later in the 
same year, which also records Mr G was looking for information then too.
Ref: DRN77905772Mr G has his own handwritten record of what he was offered in the phone call on 15 
February 2014, which he has shared with us. Mr Gs note lists the products that hed been  
told were available  to him. One of these products was a two year tracker.  This is the product 
that Mr G says hed wanted to go ahead with. But Mr G clearly remembers  that he was told 
he couldnt have  this two year tracker rate because he only had three years left on his 
interest only mortgage. Because Mr G wasnt allowed to go ahead with this tracker  rate, Mr 
and Mrs Gs interest payment increased  from around £580 to around  £740 each month.  This 
is a considerable  increase.
I think Mr G would have been very disappointed  to be told that he couldnt  have  this product. 
Its unclear to me why Mr G didnt complain about  it at the time.
There are records  that show Mrs G spoke with Santander on more than one occasion in 
2015. There are detailed call notes of these discussions in which Mrs G says she and Mr G 
had been trying to sell their property  for years. Mrs G was also very worried  about what 
would happen  when the interest only mortgage expired if they hadnt managed  to sell their 
property.
Mr and Mrs Gs property was sold in 2016  and the mortgage loan is repaid in full at that 
point.
I know our investigator was concerned that it was possible a new product wasnt taken out in 
2014 as Mr and Mrs G may have been planning to sell the property in the near term. And 
either Santanders advisor, or Mr and Mrs G, might not have  thought it was a good idea to 
take out a new product. This would have been  because it would typically involve paying  a 
product fee and potentially incurring an early repayment charge if Mr and Mrs G had sold 
their house  and repaid this interest  only mortgage  which was nearing  expiry.
Mr G has disputed this and says he was not trying  to sell the property in 2014 and this 
wasnt something he discussed with Santander.  Mr G says their property was only marketed 
from 2015 onwards  and hes provided us with evidence to support the engagement  of an 
estate agent in 2015.
In cases such as this, where theres  a dispute about  what happened and theres a lack of 
conclusive evidence to support what either party has said, I must determine what  I think  
most probably happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Mr Gs complaint is about what he was told in a phone conversation years before. And 
Santander says he wouldnt  have been told that he couldnt have a two year product if he 
had three  years remaining on the mortgage.  
I dont doubt that there was the discussion about interest rate products on 15 February 2014. 
Mr G has recorded a series of rates and these match  what  Santander has told us now would  
have been available at that time.  But there is no further evidence  that supports  Mr Gs 
recollection that he was prevented from taking out a two year product as he had three years 
left to run on his mortgage. And to be told this by Santander would seem unfair and a 
considerable loss of expectation for Mr G having  been told all the deals that were open to 
him. I struggle to understand why Mr G wouldnt have  taken issue with this at the time and 
expressed his concerns.  It also seems unlikely that Santander would have refused to give Mr 
G a two year product  that it says he would have been eligible for, as he still had three  years  
on his mortgage.  
Ref: DRN77905773I appreciate how strongly Mr G feels about this complaint, but I dont consider I can 
reasonably uphold this complaint without any further  evidence to support his recollection of 
events.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7790577