K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs L say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Santander UK Plc is now responsible for answering  this complaint, so Ill refer mainly to 
Santander.
background and summary to complaint
Mr R and Mrs L bought  the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch. The PPI policy provided cover only for 
Mr R; Mrs L wasnt  named  on it. Subject  to its exclusions and limitations, the PPI offered to 
repay £230 a month towards  their mortgage  balance in the event of Mr R making  successful 
claim. At the time, it cost £11.96  a month.  
Mr R was self-employed then, as set on the original  mortgage application form he signed. 
He wasnt entitled  to any sick pay with his job or any other  work-related protections  Im 
aware of. As regards  health, we were  told Mr R suffered from an illness  in his childhood, 
which isnt something  thats relevant to the outcome of this complaint Im afraid.  
The mortgage account and PPI both closed in 2006.  Mr R and Mrs Ls representative has 
made lengthy and substantial  representations  on their behalf.  I will not restate them  all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr R and Mrs Ls 
representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr R and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Their 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr R and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr R and 
Mrs L and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr R and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Ref: DRN72085772Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr R and Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr R and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr R and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. There were  a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN72085773The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr R and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr R and Mrs L with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr R and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R 
and Mrs L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr R and Mrs L 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and Mrs L 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr R and Mrs Ls complaint.  Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr R and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional  and I think it did. I say this 
because, although we no longer have a copy of all the sale documents,  I see that Mr R and 
Mrs L filled out a mortgage application  form which contained a section about  PPI. Its 
indicated on this application by a cross (x) that PPI cover is something they wanted to have. 
I also take note that only Mr R was covered by this policy. To me, this supports  that view that 
a discussion took place with the adviser and Mr R and Mrs L set up the PPI cover  in a way 
Ref: DRN72085774that suited their needs, with Mr R being  the higher  earner. Both of them then signed the 
application form, with the PPI selection  on it. I also think theyd have need to authorise  the 
monthly PPI premium to leave their bank account.
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  Mr R and Mrs L knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
This was an advised  sale which means Santander  had to advise Mr R and Mrs L with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
Santander most likely  took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr R and Mrs L. The adviser had some limited information  about Mr R 
and Mrs Ls financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  to show  the adviser 
took steps to establish whether Mr R would  have been caught by the significant  exclusions  
and limitations which  might have meant the policy did not fully meet his and Mrs Ls needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Santander  considered whether Mr R had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr R and Mrs L given  their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr R and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr R and Mrs L had a need for the policy  Mr R was the higher earner and would 
not have received any sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness, and theres no 
evidence they had other  means  they could fall back on. The policy would have 
helped Mr R and Mrs L manage the consequences if he was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr R and Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr R and Mrs L. 
There was nothing  about Mr Rs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. This includes his status as a self-employed  person. And he 
hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions that could affect his ability to 
claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr R and Mrs Ls circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr R and Mrs L 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
Ref: DRN72085775what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr R and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr R was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr R and Mrs L would have taken 
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr R and Mrs L agreed to take out the 
policy. Overall,  having  considered the parties representations about  what happened,  while  
Im satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr R and Mrs L Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr R and Mrs L all 
of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr R and Mrs Ls representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr R and 
Mrs Ls. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr R and Mrs Ls representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr R and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr R and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr R and Mrs L have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr R and Mrs L? To what extent  
did Mr R and Mrs L suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  probably didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr R and Mrs L. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
Ref: DRN72085776conclude Mr R and Mrs L suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr R and Mrs L would  have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander 
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr R and Mrs L, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr R and Mrs L have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr R and Mrs L would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr R and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. Deciding whether to follow advice to 
take out insurance requires the consumer  to weigh up a number of factors before deciding  
whether to proceed. Effectively  the consumer  has to weigh up the advice to take out the 
policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have  insurance, should  the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr R and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event Mr 
R was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they may have  made  that decision based on incomplete  
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr R and Mrs Ls circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  
But the information about some aspects of the policy,  such  as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  Possibly  the most  significant differences  between  
what Mr R and Mrs L thought they had bought and what they actually bought were the 
following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that Mr R knew 
about or ought to have known about 12 months  before  the start date of the policy;  
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr R and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr R and Mrs L from taking  out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr R and Mrs Ls circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr R was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr R would  have  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  theres no 
Ref: DRN72085777verifiable evidence Mr R had any pre-existing medical conditions, as defined by the policy. 
So, I still think he and Mrs L had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr R and Mrs L 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
So I consider it likely Mr R and Mrs L would  still have thought a policy that paid up to 12 
monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to and would help them  manage  the 
consequences should Mr R be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy. 
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce outgoings at a difficult 
and uncertain time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr R was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R and Mrs L would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr R and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R and Mrs L would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr R and Mrs 
Ls circumstances  as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr R 
and Mrs L found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr R and Mrs L believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN72085778represent fair compensation to put Mr R and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr R and Mrs L compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr R and Mrs L think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr R and 
Mrs L, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1999  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr R and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Santander  negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr R and Mrs L 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Santander had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what  I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr R and Mrs L in a better position 
than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7208577