K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Mrs O complain  that Connells Limited  mis-sold  their mortgage.
background
In 2005 Connells gave Mr M and Mrs O mortgage advice. It recommended that they should 
take out a repayment mortgage  over a term of 30 years.
Mr M and Mrs O consider the mortgage was unsuitable for a number of reasons:
It recorded that Mr M was employed when he was, in fact, self-employed.
The application was filled in by Connells after they signed  it.
The mortgage term extended until Mrs O was over 80 years old.
The adviser who sold them the mortgage has been convicted of fraud.
The advice process was rushed.
They were told to reduce their deposit.
They werent told about the commission that Connells would receive.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that Id look at any more comments  from Mr M and Mrs 
O and Connells. But unless the information  changed my mind, my final decision was likely to 
be along the following lines:
Mr Ms employment status wasnt recorded on the fact find and mortgage  application 
accurately. Connells  should have known  the correct  position  when  it received  the 
reference from his employer.
It was more likely than not that the lender was aware Mr M was self-employed as it saw 
the reference and his tax vouchers. And his employment status didnt affect  the suitability 
of the mortgage.
Mr M and Mrs O had signed that the information on the fact find and application form 
was true to the best of their knowledge. Its not clear why they signed  those documents if 
they were blank bearing in mind they knew the purpose of those documents.
I considered that it was more likely than not that the fact find was an accurate reflection 
of what Mr M and Mrs O told Connells about  their circumstances at the time of the 
meeting. I was satisfied  that Connells had gathered  enough  information  about Mr M and 
Mrs Os circumstances in the fact find to understand their income and outgoings. Based 
on that information the mortgage  was affordable.
Connells didnt record accurate information on the application form. But that made no 
difference to the suitability of the that Connells was giving.  It was for the lender to assess  
Mr M and Mrs Os ability to repay the mortgage.
Ref: DRN71553732There was nothing  to prevent  mortgage running to any age. The fact that Mrs O would 
be over 80 years old at the end of the term isnt relevant. And it was always the intention 
for Mr M to pay the mortgage.
Connells is responsible for the advisers  actions  in selling  this mortgage. Ive found  that 
Connells hadnt acted  fairly or reasonably in its handling of the application. But I dont 
see how this could  be construed  as a deliberate attempt  to deceive the lender into 
providing Mr M and Mrs O with a mortgage. I say that as if Connells had provided the 
correct information  it seems more likely than not that the lender would still have  granted 
Mr M and Mrs O a mortgage.
We know that Connells spent  enough time to gather fairly detailed information about  Mr 
M and Mrs Os finances. If Mr M and Mrs O felt they were being rushed they could have 
raised that at the time. And even if the application was rushed it doesnt  follow  the 
mortgage was unsuitable for them.
In the fact find the deposit amount of £15,000 is crossed out and replaced  with £12,000. 
In the notes section of the fact find there are some rough calculations that say that Mr 
M and Mrs O have  £77,000 of equity  minus £49,500 (which  is the total amount of 
existing commitments  in the fact find) leaving £22,500. I accept that once the sale and 
purchase had completed Mr M and Mrs O might  have discovered  the proceeds  were 
greater than that. But it doesnt  follow they were aware of that at the time of the meeting.
Ive already found that the fact find is likely to be an accurate reflection of what Mr M and 
Mrs O told Connells  about their circumstances  at the time in question. It follows  that it is 
likely that they told Connells  they wanted to pay a deposit  of £15,000 but then changed 
that to £12,000.
There is no written  evidence  that Mr M and Mrs O ever wished to pay a deposit of more 
than £15,000.  It is not part of a mortgage advisers role to recommend how much deposit  
borrowers should pay for a new property. Nor do they have to tell the lender how much 
equity a potential  borrower has from any property  sale. It is not unusual for borrowers to 
change the amount  they wish to put down as a deposit during the course of an 
application or to want to retain  some of the proceeds  of a sale for other things. 
Ultimately, that was Mr M and Mrs Os decision.
Ive already found that it was Mr M and Mrs Os decision  how much  to put down as a 
deposit and it was likely  their decision to reduce the deposit  to £12,000. Their actions 
(increasing the term and reducing their deposit)  suggest that they wanted to maximise 
the amount they had from the proceeds  of the sale while keeping their monthly payments 
as low as they could. 
The commission that Connells received from the lender is set out on the mortgage offer.
Connells had obtained sufficient information about Mr M and Mrs Os income and 
outgoings to know  that the mortgage  it had recommended was affordable for them. And 
Mr and Mrs O had confirmed that a monthly  amount of more  than the eventual  mortgage 
payment was affordable for them.  I cant  see that Connells  had any grounds to doubt that 
information. So it was reasonable for Connells to believe the mortgage it recommended 
was affordable for Mr M and Mrs O.
Ref: DRN71553733If Connells had changed  the term of the mortgage, Mr M and Mrs O had the opportunity 
to query  this if it was not in line with their requirements. So if this wasnt  what  they had 
agreed then they should not have  accepted  the mortgage offer. The change  from a 25 to 
30-year term would  not make the mortgage unsuitable.
Mr M and Mrs O told Connells that they could afford £757 a month. The evidence  we 
have shows that Connells  considered  what would happen should interest rates increase. 
Over a term of 25 years that would make  the mortgage unaffordable for Mr M and Mrs O. 
So Connells couldnt  recommend a mortgage  over a 25-year term.
Connells didnt treat Mr M and Mrs O fairly or reasonably.  It didnt submit  accurate 
information to the lender, set out the reasons for its recommendation  clearly or provide 
balanced information to Mr M and Mrs O so they could  make  an informed choice about 
what to do. But I think it is more likely the changes  to the deposit  and term are likely to 
reflect Mr M and Mrs Os wishes or at least that they were happy to go ahead on that 
basis at that time.
 
Connells should pay Mr M and Mrs O £750 for the distress and inconvenience they have 
suffered because of the way Connells dealt with the sale of the mortgage.
Mr M and Mrs O responded to make  a number of points, including:
If the correct employment  status was filled in, then Mr M would have  had to supply his 
tax returns and that would have lowered  his income significantly.  There  is no proof  that 
the lender knew  his correct employment  status. The lender had only confirmed that it 
knew Mr Ms job title, not his employment status. And there  is no proof that it had 
requested the tax vouchers. If Mr Ms employment  status made no difference, then why 
did Connells lie? If there was no difference between employed and self-employed  then 
why do lenders ask for that information? 
The letter from his employer was requested by Connells  not the lender, so why would 
the lender look at it. Just because the lender  was in possession of it does not mean it 
would look at it.
If Connells had correctly recognised that Mr M was self-employed it would have used his 
net profit. And the amount they could have borrowed would have been significantly less. 
This shows that Mr Ms employment status was an important factor.  
There is no mention of what the £49,500  of debt was or who it was owed to. They 
disagreed they had that amount. Theyve  provided evidence that they spent over £3,000 
on new windows soon  after they took out the mortgage. 
The £25,000 on the fact find was made up of the amount set aside  for their debts, legal 
aid and council fees  but it wasnt accurate to record  it all as debt.
Connells internal  notes arent a true version  of events.
There is no record of the outcome of their meeting  with Connells on 28 October 2005.
Connells never told them about any other  mortgage products but after the meeting it 
contacted the lender.
Ref: DRN71553734The mortgage they got was for exactly 4.3 times  Mr Ms income  from self-employment,  
not gross  turnover. 
It was probably nave of them to sign blank documents.  But their signatures should  not 
mean that Connells mistakes are ignored.  
There had been reports in the media of hard selling tactics at the branch of Connells 
they used.
Connells should be able to provide evidence of a meeting on 10 November 2005.  They  
only had one meeting on 28 October 2005.
Even if all the information was correct, a 30-year term would have been too long.
Just because a mortgage is affordable it does not make it suitable.
The unsecured  element  of the borrowing for £1,000 was unnecessary.  And that meant  
the mortgage had a higher interest rate.
They couldnt understand why Connells would submit incorrect information unless it was 
done deliberately.
They are claiming  the mortgage was mis-sold as they thought that a joint application 
was based on Mr M being the only one working.  That is not the case  a joint application 
was always dependent on the eldest applicants age. Mrs O did contribute  towards the 
mortgage as it the equity from the sale of her previous property was used towards 
various costs associated with the sale and purchase.
The lender  had confirmed it relied on the information submitted by Connells when 
making its decision.
There were  cheaper products available and they had the means to pay a bigger deposit.
They had a low credit score.
£750 compensation was too low. It was unfair  that decisions are being made on 
presumptions and wrong information, instead  of it being based on evidence and facts. 
The original interest rate on the application  form of 4.69% has been crossed out and 
replaced with 5.79%.  That was because the rate went up because  the deposit  was 
lowered by Connells. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes everything  Mr M and Mrs O 
have said and provided since my provisional decision. I am satisfied  I have sufficient 
information to reach  a final decision.
Ref: DRN71553735My decision  is based  on all of the evidence and comments  that we have from both sides. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened  I have  made  a decision on the balance of 
probabilities based on the evidence and comments that we do have.  I disagree  that it means 
my decision  is based  on presumptions and wrong  information. Rather  it reflects  that we are 
considering events from 16 years ago. I can only make  my decision on the information and 
evidence we do have   and I will explain  my reasons for the decision that I reach. 
I note again Mr Ms strength of feeling  about  this matter. I understand why the discrepancies 
in the application lead him to believe that the mortgage was mis-sold. Connells should have 
been able to show that it set out clearly  the reasons for its recommendation and why the 
changes to the application were  made.  It hasnt  been able to do so. But it doesnt follow that 
Mr M and Mrs Os mortgage was unsuitable  for them. I have not cherry picked which  parts 
of MCOB to consider.  I need to decide  what in my opinion is fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint  taking into account any relevant rules and 
regulations, amongst other things. 
There were two businesses that were  involved  in Mr M and Mrs Os mortgage application: 
Connells, that was giving  them mortgage advice; and the lender, who was deciding  whether 
to lend them  the money they wanted.
I agree  that just because a mortgage was affordable doesnt mean that it is suitable. 
Connells should have  also considered  if it was appropriate  to all of Mr M and Mrs Os needs  
and circumstances  and the most suitable of those available within  the scope of service 
provided. But affordability was part of the assessment of suitability.
The lender  also had a duty to assess whether Mr M and Mrs O had the ability  to pay the 
mortgage. It was for the lender to take the steps necessary to satisfy itself that the mortgage 
was affordable.
employment status
I agree  with Mr M that the lender would want to know his employment status so that it could 
carry out an appropriate check on whether he and Mrs O had the ability  to pay the mortgage. 
As Mr M says the tax position  would be different for someone who was a self-employed sub-
contractor.
I agree  that Connells  should have known that Mr M was self-employed,  when it saw the 
reference from his employer which stated that he was self-employed and when the lender 
requested his tax payment vouchers. It ought  to have known that this information might  have  
affected Mr M and Mrs Os eligibility for the mortgage with the lender Connells had 
recommended. And that was part of Connells responsibility when giving  advice. As I will 
explain later,  it wouldnt  necessarily affect Connells  assessment  of affordability in its role of 
giving mortgage  advice.
In any case, I dont consider the failure to enter the correct information on the application 
form made any difference to the lenders  decision  to the extent that Connells would be 
responsible for.
I say that because the evidence we have shows that it was the lender that requested tax 
payment vouchers from Mr M. While the letter requesting that information  was from 
Connells, the letter states that it was the lender who made the request. The fact that it was 
Connells that wrote to Mr M and Mrs O reflects that was part of its role as a mortgage broker 
Ref: DRN71553736 it was in line with good practice for it to act as an intermediary between the borrower  and 
lender. 
The type of tax vouchers that the lender requested were  specifically  for people who were 
self-employed sub-contractors, like Mr M. It follows that it is likely that the lender knew his 
employment status when it made the request for this information. Im not looking at a 
complaint about  the lender. But the fact it knew to ask for this piece  of information in my view 
makes it more likely  than not that it knew of Mr Ms correct employment status. 
In view of the incorrect  information on the application form, the lender could only have known  
that Mr M was a self-employed sub-contractor if it had seen the reference  from Mr Ms 
employer. So it is more likely than not, that it did see the reference. 
It was for the lender  to satisfy itself of Mr M and Mrs Os ability  to pay the mortgage. That is 
a matter for Mr M, Mrs O and the lender. But I consider it less likely that Connells mistake 
led to the lender approving the mortgage  based  on an incorrect understanding  of Mr Ms 
employment status. 
signatures
I agree  that the fact that Mr M and Mrs O signed the fact find and application form doesnt 
mean that we should ignore any mistakes that Connells has made. That is why I have 
upheld the complaint and awarded them compensation. But I still have to take into account 
that they did sign both the application form and fact find declaring that they had provided 
information that was true to the best of their knowledge. 
Mr M and Mrs O knew the purpose  of the fact find and application form they signed. They 
ought to have known that they were  signing  an important document. It is not clear why they 
agreed to sign those documents if they were blank. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M and Mrs O had a meeting with Connells. The fact find contains 
information about them. For example, it includes their personal details, income  and 
outgoings  including amounts for legal  aid, council fees and Mrs Os CCJ. I dont see how 
Connells could have  obtained that information  unless  it had carried out a fairly detailed  
exploration of Mr M and Mrs Os financial circumstances with them. So I consider it more  
likely than not that the fact find is an accurate reflection of what Mr M and Mrs O understood 
their circumstances to be at the time of the meeting.
The information on the application form submitted to the lender is different to the information  
recorded on the fact find. But the only differences between the fact find and the application is 
the outgoings and debts  to be repaid. The fact find records the outgoings as £1,360.50, 
including a mortgage payment of £757.60,  while the application states this is £0. It is clear 
this was wrong. Connells should have  recorded the outgoings on the application form 
correctly.
The fact find records says that Mr M and Mrs O have £49,500 of existing commitments and 
around £42,500 plus a CCJ of £1,700 are to be repaid. The application form only included 
£17,000 of commitments.  
So would it have  made a difference if Connells had recorded the correct information on the 
application form?  I dont consider it would have. I say that because I am looking at Connells 
actions. It was giving advice. I am satisfied that it gathered  enough information about  Mr M 
Ref: DRN71553737and Mrs Os circumstances in the fact find to understand their income and outgoings.  Based 
on that information the mortgage was affordable.
It was for the lender  to assess and satisfy itself whether Mr M and Mrs O had the ability to 
pay the mortgage. Im not looking at a complaint about the lender. But I would  be surprised if 
it accepted at face value that Mr M and Mrs O had no outgoings.  In any case, while I accept  
Connells should have  taken more care in completing  the application, it had reasonable 
grounds to conclude that the mortgage  was affordable. And as all the debts were to be 
repaid the fact that not all debts were recorded  on the application  would make  no difference  
to the outcome here.
I know Mr M has placed a great  deal of weight on his argument that there was only one 
meeting on 28 October 2005. Connells has provided evidence to show  that it certified 
documents from Mr M and Mrs O as being true copies on 10 November 2005   and that was 
when the application was dated. I dont consider this makes  a difference to the outcome 
here.
It was in line with normal practice for debts only to be repaid at completion of sale and 
purchase. That is because borrowers usually need  the sale proceeds to clear the debts.
lending into retirement
I agree  with Mr M that Mrs O was making  a contribution to the mortgage.  I dont  agree  that 
her age or that she would  be past state  pension age was a factor  in the sustainability  or 
suitability of the mortgage.  I say that because it was always intended  that the monthly 
mortgage payment  would be paid from Mr Ms income. So it was his age that was relevant.
fraud  
Connells is responsible  for the advisers  actions  in selling this mortgage. Ive found  that 
Connells hadnt acted  fairly or reasonably in its handling of the application. But I dont see 
how this could be construed as a deliberate attempt to deceive  the lender into providing
Mr M and Mrs O with a mortgage. I say that as if Connells  had provided  the correct  
information it seems more likely than not that the lender would still have granted Mr M and 
Mrs O a mortgage.
I note Mr M has pointed  out that there  were  reports in the media about the actions of staff at 
the branch where he and Mrs O received advice. But it doesnt follow that Mr M and Mrs O 
were affected by that or that it made  the mortgage  unsuitable.
the advice process  was rushed
It is difficult for me to say whether the advice process was rushed or not. Mr M is adamant  
that it was. We do know that Connells spent enough  time to complete a fact find, which  
included fairly detailed information  about  Mr M and Mrs Os finances.  
This was an important transaction for Mr M and Mrs O. If they felt they were  being rushed 
into it, it was reasonable  for them to raise that at the time. And even if the application  was 
rushed, it doesnt  follow that the mortgage  was unsuitable for them.
deposit
Ref: DRN71553738Connells had no responsibility  to give advice about  how much  deposit Mr M and Mrs O 
should pay. That was a decision  for them. In the fact find the deposit amount of £15,000 is 
crossed out and replaced with £12,000.
I accept that Mr M and Mrs O had an amount left over once the mortgage  completed.  It is not 
unusual for borrowers  to change the amount they wish to put down as a deposit during the 
course of an application or to wish to retain some of the proceeds of a sale for other things. 
Ultimately that was Mr M and Mrs Os decision.  
Based on the evidence  I have I consider it was more likely  than not Mr M and Mrs Os 
decision how much  to pay as a deposit. The fact find and application form state they wanted  
to put down £12,000. There  is no written  evidence from the time to support that they ever 
wanted to put down  a deposit of more than £15,000.  I cant see any error by Connells.
I note Mr Ms point  that he and Mrs O spent around £3,000 on new windows shortly after 
they took out the mortgage. That again supports that Mr M and Mrs O had a surplus once 
the mortgage completed  and that they had things  to spend it on. It is not unusual for 
someone moving home to retain some equity for home improvements or other things or for 
them to change their mind about how much  they want  to retain.  And Mr M and Mrs O have 
had the benefit of any surplus from the proceeds  of the sale of Mrs Os previous property.
Mr M says the increase  in interest  rate on the application form from 4.69% to 5.79% is as a 
result of the decrease  in deposit  from £15,000 to £12,000. It isnt unusual for interest rates  to 
be withdrawn and replaced with higher rates or for the rate available to change during the 
course of an application. And Ive found  it was Mr M and Mrs Os decision about how much 
deposit to pay. Overall,  Im not persuaded the change in interest  rate was due to a mistake 
or any unfairness by Connells.  I accept  that Connells ought to have  done  more to document  
the reasons for the change in the interest rate  and that is reflected  in my award  below.
commission
The commission that Connells received from the lender is set out on the mortgage offer.
affordability
Connells had obtained sufficient information about Mr M and Mrs Os income and outgoings  
to know that the mortgage it had recommended was affordable for them. And Mr and Mrs O 
had confirmed that a monthly  amount of more than the eventual mortgage  payment was 
affordable for them. That is set out on the fact find. I consider  it more  likely than not that it 
accurately reflects  what Mr M and Mrs O told Connells.  I say that as the fact find contains a 
significant amount  of personal and financial information about Mr M and Mrs O that they 
havent disputed. Based on that I cant see that Connells had any grounds  to doubt the 
information it had been given. So it was reasonable for Connells to believe the mortgage it 
recommended was affordable for Mr M and Mrs O.
suitability
At the time in question MCOB said a mortgage will be suitable  if having regard to the facts 
disclosed by the customer and other  relevant  facts  about the customer which the broker  is, 
or should reasonably be aware,  the broker has reasonable grounds to conclude:
The customer can afford  to enter  into the mortgage.
Ref: DRN71553739The mortgage is appropriate to the needs and circumstances of the customer.
The mortgage is the most suitable of those  that the broker  has available to it within  the 
scope of the service  provided to the customer.
Ive already found that Connells had reasonable grounds to conclude the mortgage was 
affordable for Mr M and Mrs O.
At the time in question, MCOB set out what a broker should do to assess  whether a 
mortgage is appropriate to the needs  of the customer. It says a broker  should  give due 
regard to:
Whether the customers requirements meet the eligibility criteria for the mortgage   for 
example, the amount of borrowing  or loan-to-value.
Whether the customer should have an interest  only or repayment mortgage.
Whether the customer has a preference  for a particular term.
Whether the customer has a preference  or need  for stability,  having  regard to the impact 
of the customer of significant interest rate changes in the future.
Whether the customer has a preference  for payments  to be reduced  at the outset  for 
example a discounted interest rate.
Whether the customer intends to make early  repayments.
Whether the customer has a preference  or need  for any other features  for example 
payment holidays.
Mr M and Mrs O are concerned about whether due regard was given to their eligibility for the 
mortgage and their preference for a shorter term. Mr M and Mrs O have not put forward any 
arguments that suggest they are dissatisfied  with any other element that is listed above.  But 
for the avoidance  of any doubt, I cant see any reason  why a repayment mortgage  with a 
fixed rate wasnt suitable for them.
Ive already found that Connells should have  known Mr Ms correct employment  status,  but it 
didnt reconsider whether this affected  his eligibility  for the mortgage it had recommended. 
But I have also found that, the lender approved  the application when it was more  likely than 
not aware of this. So it seems likely that had Connells properly considered  eligibility it would 
have had no reason to consider that Mr M and Mrs O werent eligible for the mortgage it 
recommended.
In regard to the term, Mr M and Mrs O had the opportunity  to query this if it was not in line 
with their requirements. So if this wasnt what they had agreed  then they should  not have 
accepted the mortgage  offer.  As I have  said, it isnt unusual  for borrowers  to change their 
requirements during  the course of a mortgage application. The change  from a 25 to 30-year 
term would  not make the mortgage unsuitable. 
In fact, I dont consider  that Connells could have  recommended  a mortgage with a 25-year 
term. I say that as the information we have  shows that Connells assessed whether the 
Ref: DRN715537310payment would be affordable if the SVR increased  by 1%. Over  30 years, the payment is 
affordable  but over 25 years it isnt. So Connells could not have recommended a term of 
25 years   it wasnt suitable for Mr M and Mrs O. Connells didnt have reasonable grounds to 
consider the mortgage was affordable over that term.
It is likely  that Mr M and Mrs O agreed to the increased term. But even if they didnt agree to 
it at that point, only a 30-year  term was affordable for them.  As I have  said they had the 
opportunity to query this if it wasnt in line with their requirements. But its also clear  that Mr 
M and Mrs O regarded  Connells as the expert here.  They were relying on it to give them 
professional advice. So if Connells had set out the reasons why they could only have a 30-
year term,  I consider it likely that Mr M and Mrs O would have accepted that advice  and 
that was the correct advice based  on the information we have.
I agree  with Mr M and Mrs O that Connells hasnt done a very good job in documenting the 
reasons for its advice.  But Mr M and Mrs O say they had a low credit score  at the time It is 
likely that the range  of mortgages  available to them was restricted. And I havent  seen any 
persuasive evidence  that there was a cheaper mortgage available at that time that Mr M and 
Mrs O would have qualified for.
So while I appreciate why Mr M and Mrs O consider that Connells manipulated their 
application to maximise  its commission, there is no evidence that it could source any other 
mortgage for them. In view of this, I consider  that Connells had reasonable grounds to 
consider that the mortgage was suitable.  Although it makes no difference to the outcome, I 
would add that the evidence we have states  that it was the lender  that insisted on the 
unsecured element of the borrowing. 
I understand the significant upset and worry it has caused  Mr M and Mrs O because  of the 
poor service they received. I accept  that they firmly  believe that they have been caused  
significant detriment  because of the advice they received.  But I consider that the mortgage  
they have is more likely than not to have met their objectives at the time. And no broker 
would have known  at that time the issues their lender would experience  in the future.
It was reasonable  for Mr M and Mrs O to want to review the sale in view of the difficulties 
they have subsequently  faced. And I know they will be left with doubt that they were  correctly 
advised and might have been  better  off if they had done something differently. But it doesnt  
follow that the mortgage was unsuitable  for them.
I consider that Connells  should compensate Mr M and Mrs O for the distress they have been 
caused because  it didnt deal with the sale fairly.  Listening to what Mr M and Mrs O have 
said and in all the circumstances,  I consider £750 is a fair amount  to reflect  the distress  and 
inconvenience this matter has caused to them. 
I know that Mr M and Mrs O consider  that the fees they paid in connection with the mortgage  
should be refunded. But as I havent  found the mortgage to be unsuitable,  I dont consider 
those fees should be refunded.
I was sorry to hear of the difficulties that Mr M and Mrs O have experienced in obtaining a 
different mortgage.  In part that reflects that the rules that cover mortgage  lending were made 
much more stringent  in 2014. It doesnt  necessarily follow that the original  lending  was 
granted unfairly  and in any case, that is matter  for the lender.
Ref: DRN715537311my final decision
My final decision is that Connells Limited should pay Mr M and Mrs O £750 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2021.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7155373