K822xcomplaint
Miss M, represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complains about  the sale of 
a whole of life policy, which provided  life and critical illness cover (CIC). The CMC  has said 
that it was an unsuitable  recommendation by Phoenix Life Limited, with no assessment 
made of affordability, potential alternatives or the possibility of stand-alone CIC. 
background 
Phoenix Life accepted there was insufficient  evidence from the information in the point of 
sale documentation to support the specific recommendation  made  to Miss M. 
But it noted that she had two young  dependent children at the time, so it felt she did have a 
need for life and critical illness  cover.  It suggested  she therefore be compensated based on 
comparing the cost of her policy with the cost of a 17-year term assurance  policy  that 
wouldve covered  her until her youngest child reached age 21.  
Miss Ms CMC didnt  accept this offer. It said the fairest method of compensating her would 
be to offer a refund of the premiums paid,  minus the actual cost of the cover,  plus interest,  
minus the policys current  surrender value. Miss M could  then decide  whether to continue  
with the plan. This was important as her circumstances had changed so she wouldnt find it 
easy to obtain  insurance.  And the CMC  noted that it had been  recorded that at the time of 
the advice that shed  wanted cover for life.
Our investigator said that it was clear that in 1997  Miss M had been  seeking  life and critical 
illness cover.  But she felt it wasnt possible to say with any certainty  what  alternative cover 
she might  have taken. Also, Miss Ms ability to get replacement cover now could be severely 
impacted by the changes to her health.
The investigator noted that Miss M had stopped paying the premiums into her policy in 2012, 
although it remained in force, so she felt Miss M should be provided  with, along with the 
refund, the option to continue the policy as paid up.
Phoenix Life responded to say that it didnt agree. It confirmed that its offer of a comparison 
with a 17-year  term policy was based on the existing policy  being  cancelled from inception  
as it had agreed that it was unsuitable.  It felt that if Miss M still required the cover provided 
by the policy,  she didnt have to accept  its offer and the policy could continue as it was.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, so the matters  been referred to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its accepted that the policy sold to Miss M in 1997 wasnt  a suitable means by which to meet  
her documented need for life and critical illness cover. That being so, while theres  an 
argument she might otherwise have opted  for term cover, the documentation indicates she 
wanted ongoing cover. So, I think its difficult to say with any certainty  what  term, if any, she 
wouldve selected. 
Ref: DRN73856842In such circumstances  our general  approach is to recommend  compensation as suggested 
by the investigator. And Im conscious  that this will allow Miss M to continue with the cover, 
which is an important consideration given her change  in circumstances. Obtaining cover  
elsewhere would now be difficult  for her, so I think its fair and reasonable to allow  her the 
opportunity to keep  the policy in place.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Phoenix 
Life Limited to pay compensation as set out below; 
Refund the premiums  paid to the policy, less the actual cost of the life and critical 
illness cover
add 8% simple interest  to the refunds, from the date each premium was paid until the 
date of settlement
minus the surrender  value of the policy
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2019.
James Harris  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7385684