K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with National House-Building Council (NHBC) because they 
found out their new home had been  built without planning permission or building  control and 
when they repaired  it NHBC  wouldnt reimburse  their costs.
background
Mr and Mrs S bought a new home in 2009. In 2011 the NHBC new build warranty was 
issued. Around  the time it was issued there was a problem with the roof and Mr and Mrs S 
got in touch with NHBC. Under  section  2 of the policy  which  in this case  makes  the builder 
liable for resolving defects  and damage  NHBC told the developer  to resolve the problem. 
When it didnt do so NHBC  took over and the roof was sorted by the end of February 2012.
NHBC wasnt contacted again  regarding Mr and Mrs Ss home until 2014.  At this time 
Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor  wrote to NHBC and said they were  looking to sell the house and had 
to lower the price  because work  needed to be done  in order  to get necessary building control 
certificates. NHBC wrote back to the solicitor and said,  as it was now more than two years  
after its warranty had been issued, if the solicitor  could provide details of what  defects were 
present, it would consider a claim under section 3. The solicitor  sent some  detail and NHBC 
called it twice to discuss the matter but, despite leaving two telephone messages with a 
person at the solicitors office,  the solicitor didnt  respond.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs S contacted NHBC. They said the house had now been  sold and theyd 
incurred costs carrying out repairs. They said their house had been built without a building 
control certificate being issued, theyd had to do lots of work to bring it up to standard and 
their solicitor  told them they should contact NHBC for a refund. They said the builder was 
bankrupt. They said theyd like their money  straight  away. NHBC contacted  the local 
authority in the area of Mr and Mrs Ss home  and were  told it had tried to visit the property 
around the time the build  was completed  but hadnt  been able to gain access, the inspector 
had never  gone  back  so the house  had never  passed the building  control  inspection.  
NHBC told Mr and Mrs S that it wasnt involved in building the property, carrying  out building 
control (which the local authority had done), or selling the property. It said the warranty  didnt 
have an option  for providing compensation in these circumstances. In response to a further  
enquiry NHBC said it doesnt carry out any building control work in the area of Mr and Mr Ss 
home and theyd need to contact their local authority to complain about their losses,  the 
warranty wouldnt compensate them in this respect. NHBCs final response explained that it 
wasnt involved in the building control process  and its agreement  with the builder required 
the house to be built in line with its technical requirements, and if it wasnt  then,  in certain 
respects, the warranty offered cover. Mr and Mrs S complained  to this service.  
Our adjudicator noted that no details  had been  provided to allow  NHBC to consider a claim 
under section 3 of the warranty. He also accepted that NHBC wasnt responsible  in respect  
of building  control in this instance. He felt NHBCs responses had been  fair and reasonable. 
In a further view the adjudicator explained that whilst the problem Mr and Mrs S had faced 
was that their home hadnt been  issued with a building control  certificate, NHBC wasnt  
responsible for carrying out building control. He said that whilst it inspected the property that 
was done to determine its own risk in respect  of issuing the warranty. Its actions in that 
respect didnt have any connection to the warranty contract that later existed between it and 
Mr and Mrs S. NHBCs warranty here was unrelated to any issue  of building  control  consent.  
Ref: DRN70012932He also explained  that a claim under section  3 required damage to have been caused to 
certain parts of the property by a defect  detail of which was never provided to NHBC.
Mr and Mrs S said that surely once the claim had been made  in 2014, NHBC should have 
inspected the property and only if it was satisfied  that none  of the issues were  covered could 
it have fairly  declined the claim. And yet NHBC didnt do that, or even contact them.  
Mr and Mrs S provided some details of the problems with the property that theyd fixed, 
asked for NHBC to show when it had inspected the property prior to issuing the certificate 
and said theyd never been  issued  with details of the warranty.
Our adjudicator explained to Mr and Mrs S that the inspections that NHBC carry out in order  
to gauge its risk, arent something that we have jurisdiction over, because they arent related 
to it carrying out insurance activity.  He noted that no details had been presented to NHBC in 
2014 that suggested any claim  under  the warranty was likely be successful, so it hadnt 
progressed the claim or inspected the property. He felt this was fair and reasonable. He also 
felt it wouldnt be possible for NHBC to retrospectively consider whether damage or defects 
had been present at the property that might be covered under the warranty.
Mr and Mrs S said they felt harmed and cheated  and couldnt  understand  why we wouldnt 
do anything about  it. All defects were reported to NHBC by the solicitor  and as it was a 
solicitor making the claim it is unclear how it could fail. Since  selling the house, Mr and Mrs S 
said, they purchased  a property which they re-built themselves and in doing  so had to 
purchase a warranty. So they said they knew that in order to get a warranty  all the proper 
building control  documents  had to be provided.  They felt NHBC should  produce the 
documents it had received and on which basis it had seen fit to issue their warranty.  Our 
adjudicator said that as he hadnt been  able to resolve their concerns, their complaint would 
be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for the 
distress I know this will cause Mr and Mrs S, Im not minded to move  away from the views 
issued by our adjudicator.  
I realise that this is an awfully tricky  position for Mr and Mrs S to be in. Every party that was 
involved in this matter  that they complain about  seems to be found blameless for the 
situation theyve  found themselves in. I can only imagine how frustrating that must be for 
them. But that doesnt mean  I can ignore the situation and evidence  as it pertains to NHBCs 
liability. And NHBC has to have failed them in some  way in respect of that liability, resulting 
in some kind of loss or differing  circumstances that otherwise wouldnt have occurred, in 
order for a complaint against it to succeed (meaning it would have to act to put things right).
NHBC doesnt just act as an insurer. So not everything it does is subject to our jurisdiction. 
Any activity  that NHBC  carries  out before the warranty is issued isnt something we can look 
at. Not least because  the parties that initially contract for the provision of the warranty  are 
the developer  and NHBC. The homeowner isnt a party to that process.  Only once NHBC 
agrees to issue a warranty and the house  is purchased does that warranty transfer to the 
homeowner. So whilst I fully understand why Mr and Mrs S want  to know more about what 
happened in the run up to NHBC issuing their warranty, in respect  of inspections and 
documentation received, I cant look at whether or not what NHBC did at that time was fair 
and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN70012933I can share with Mr and Mrs S though some detail that NHBC has passed to us. NHBC has 
said that going back to around  2009 it wasnt prepared to agree to issue  a warranty  because 
work was required to bring  the property in line with its technical requirements (which are 
distinct from building control  checks). NHBC has said that the next thing that happened from 
its perspective was that Mr and Mrs S contacted  it in 2011 to make  a claim for the roof. At 
that time,  because the property had been purchased, NHBC felt it was appropriate to issue  
the warranty. And issuing  the warranty enabled it to deal with the claim. 
Because we dont have jurisdiction over the early activity NHBC carries out in checking  a 
property prior to issuing  a warranty, Im not familiar  with what  is normally investigated. I know 
Mr and Mrs S have  recently built or re-built a property themselves and have gone  through 
the process of obtaining a warranty. I am aware  that the warranties issued for self-build 
properties often  have different terms and conditions and liabilities to those provided under  
schemes available to developers. Those  warranties  also create a lasting contract between 
the warranty provider  and the person responsible for building the property because in the 
instance of a self-build, the builder  is also the homeowner. Which  means  the homeowner  
can benefit from cover in respect of defects and/or damage regarding the work they 
completed. This is different  to where a house  is built and then sold to the first owner who 
then benefits from the NHBC policy agreed  with the developer. In that instance,  if there  are 
defects, NHBC  may be able to claim its costs for repair back  from the developer. So the 
nature and basis of the two types  of cover are distinctly different and may well involve  very 
different processes in their agreement phases.  
In any event, from the detail Ive shared  with Mr and Mrs S above, I think  the warranty NHBC  
issued here likely didnt  follow  the normal processes anyway.  Rather NHBC seems to have 
been prepared  to step away  from its normal processes, in order  to assist  Mr and Mrs S, by 
issuing the warranty  without completing  at least some of its usually required checks. But Im 
satisfied that if a properly made claim had been  put to NHBC, the absence of those checks, 
and even the absence of the building control certificate, wouldnt have prevented  the claim 
from proceeding. 
The difficulty  for Mr and Mrs S is that, and despite  them having sought  representation from a 
solicitor in order to try and get things done in the right way, no proper claims regarding  the 
defects and damage were  made to NHBC.  NHBC did receive letters  from the solicitor. The 
initial letters demanded payment without any substantiation of loss. When NHBC responded 
asking for evidence from the solicitor some details were then provided but these werent 
sufficient to persuade  NHBC, even on the face of it, that there was a valid claim under the 
policy. And when NHBC sought  further detail from the solicitor to try and establish if there 
was something the warranty needed  to respond to, no further contact from the solicitor  was 
received. 
I know from what theyve said that Mr and Mrs S were told by their solicitor that all they had 
to do was submit receipts for work done to NHBC,  but that simply isnt how claims work  
under all home insurance policies and warranties that Im aware of the insurer  has to have 
the chance to assess  the claim first. And because NHBC didnt receive any response from 
the solicitor, it wasnt able to do that. That wasnt, in my view,  its fault.  And because  NHBC  
had received contact  from the solicitor, with an authorisation signed by Mrs S stating that 
NHBC could deal with the solicitor  in relation to all queries about  the property, it had no good 
reason to contact  Mr and Mrs S directly when the solicitor didnt respond to its enquiries.  
Even if NHBC had done so, Im not confident  that would have changed anything.  At best 
I think Mr and Mrs S, at that time, would have passed the letter  on to the solicitor, but the 
Ref: DRN70012934solicitor had already  failed  to answer  NHBCs reasonable and direct enquiries.  So Im not 
persuaded that receiving a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs S would have prompted the 
solicitor to reply.   
I know Mr and Mrs S have  provided some photos  of the damage they repaired, that they 
spent thousands  doing this and the house was still sold at a loss. But for a claim to succeed 
under the NHBC  warranty,  even  looking at section 2 which  makes  NHBC liable for a 
bankrupt builders  responsibility to resolve  damage and defects, it isnt sufficient merely to 
know that there is something wrong with a property. A defect is defined in the warranty as 
something which doesnt comply with NHBCs technical requirements. And damage is 
defined as being physical damage caused  by a defect. NHBC wasnt able to assess the 
damage because  the solicitor didnt reply to it, and the damage has now been fixed and the 
house sold. All that remains as evidence is some photos and repair data. Unfortunately that 
means there  is no way that NHBC can reasonably now determine whether its likely that the 
damage that Mr and Mrs S had to fix was caused by a defect. NHBCs inability in this 
respect hasnt arisen, in my view, out of any failure on its part. Therefore, I cant  fairly and 
reasonably require it to consider a claim under the policy. 
NHBC warranties that apply to homes  built in certain countries do offer cover  for fixing  
certain issues in a home that havent  been built in line with building  regulations (distinct from 
NHBCs own technical requirements). But Mr and Mrs Ss home wasnt  built in those 
countries so this part of the warranty was never applicable to them. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S say they didnt receive a copy of the NHBC warranty but Im 
not persuaded that even  if they had the situation would have been any different. I say that 
because I know that Mr and Mrs S felt unable  to deal with the situation they found 
themselves in as they didnt understand the processes involved.  That was why they had their 
solicitor handle things.  Having a copy of the warranty wouldnt have allowed them to 
understand and manage the situation especially given the wider circumstances of the 
property sale and (at that time) recently discovered non-compliance with building 
regulations. If the solicitor  didnt have a copy of the warranty and chose to act and provide 
advice to them without  it, I cant fairly  and reasonably blame NHBC for that. The solicitor was 
a professional who should have  known and understood the importance of verifying  contract 
documents. A policyholders  entitlement depends  heavily upon  the agreed  contract  terms. If 
the solicitor didnt have  a copy of the warranty he should reasonably have thought  to ask for 
it. There is no evidence that he did so.
With regret for the upset  and frustration I know this will cause Mr and Mrs S, and as 
I explained at the beginning of these findings,  I dont  uphold  their complaint. I dont know  
why or how they came  to be able to purchase  a property that had been  built without the 
required planning permission  or building control consent  but I am satisfied that regarding  
the cover  offered by the warranty provided, NHBC has acted fairly  and reasonably. I havent 
found that it failed Mr and Mrs S and so I cant fairly or reasonably require it to do anything to 
help put right the position theyre  in. But I do hope  that they are able to understand why Ive 
come to this conclusion and that they will eventually be able to find the party/parties 
responsible for their loss. If they wish to see the 2014 correspondence  and telephone  notes  
between NHBC and their solicitor that we have on file they should let us know  and our 
adjudicator will provide copies.
Ref: DRN70012935my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7001293