K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. declined a claim made  on their travel  insurance policy.
background
Mrs W bought an annual  travel insurance  policy for her and Mr W in mid-July 2018. They 
were both due to travel abroad, to the USA,  in August 2018. However, they had to cancel 
that trip because Mr W required medical  treatment  on his kidneys. 
They made a claim on the policy to cover certain costs associated  with their cancelled  trip. 
Mapfre declined that claim; it said Mr W had been showing symptoms of kidney  problems 
immediately prior to Mrs W buying the policy.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  think that was fair, so brought a complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree and their complaint  has been passed  to me to 
look at everything afresh and make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Although the policy can cover cancellation  costs, it says:
"cancelling or cutting short your trip because of a medical condition  or any illness 
related to a medical condition you knew about at the time of taking out this insurance 
and/or, prior to the booking of any individual trip unless this has been declared   
and we have accepted  cover for this in writing."
It also says:
if at the time of purchasing the policy, the following criteria apply to you or anyone  
insured under the policy, you will not be covered for any claim arising  directly  or 
indirectly from that medical condition 
-anyone who is receiving or waiting medical  tests or treatment for any medical  
condition or set of symptoms that have not been  diagnosed.
Mr and Mrs W accept  that Mr W was feeling  generally unwell  and had been vomiting - for a 
number of days before Mrs W bought the policy. They say they thought  Mr W was suffering 
with a short virus. But as Mr W was unable to keep  any food or liquid down, they say an 
appointment was made to see his GP the day after Mrs W bought the policy.  The GP 
referred him to hospital for an x-ray and blood  tests  on the same day and a scan  identified 
that Mr W had kidney  stones, which needed to be surgically removed.  
Although a diagnosis of kidney stones wasnt made  until the day after the policy  was taken 
out, Im satisfied Mr W had been ill before then, and immediately  prior to the policy  being  
bought - and that his illness was most likely related  to the kidney stones. So, I dont think  
Ref: DRN76182682Mapfre has acted unfairly  or unreasonably by declining to cover Mr and Mrs Ws claim for 
the cancellation costs.
Further, Im satisfied that the reason  why Mr W was referred  to the hospital for further tests 
was because of a set of symptoms that hed been  experiencing  before  the policy was taken 
out. As those tests  led to the diagnosis  of kidney stones which resulted in the trip abroad 
being cancelled,  I think Mapfre  has fairly  declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. doesnt need to do anything. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject  my decision before  
19 August 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7618268