K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is that BUX Financial Services Limited (operating  as Ayondo  Markets  
Limited (Ayondo)) unfairly reversed  two profitable forex  trades in his two accounts.
background
The trades took place on 22 June 2018 and Mr A says they resulted from a trading strategy 
based on news events  (and research related to such news events). Ayondo  reversed the 
profits he made by opening 2 trades in the opposite direction and generating losses  which 
cancelled the profits. The reversing trades  went slightly beyond cancellation of the profits but 
Ayondo has since agreed to balance the account  to the effect  of only cancelling  the profits.
Ayondo says the trades were based on prices  beyond its quotes and non-market prices.  In 
support of this position, it has referred  to price data from Bloomberg about the relevant 
currency pair at the time of Mr As trades which conflict with the prices in his trades and it 
has presented evidence of other comparable trades it executed  around  the same  time which  
all bear prices within its quotes  with the prices in Mr As trades being the only outliers. 
Ayondo also says it was entitled to take the action  it took  which  included  closure  of Mr As 
accounts  under the agreed  terms for the accounts (related to suspected abusive trading).
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and considered that it should  not be 
upheld  for broadly the same reasons as those presented by Ayondo.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome.  In the main,  he argued that: 
Arbitrage trading   which is prohibited by the terms and is part of what Ayondo  
suspected in his case  has been confused for news based  trading which  he says is 
legitimate and is what he did in making  the two trades. Arbitrage trading  involves  
trades which are opened and closed within seconds, whereas he held his trades  
open for minutes.
His trades cannot reasonably be compared  to others executed by Ayondo  around the 
same time because prices  are volatile and they depend on having  matches  with 
Ayondos liquidity  providers (LPs), but Ayondo has not evidenced  its LPs prices.
He checked,  at the time, quotes for his trades  with a reliable third party firm and his 
fill prices were within the 1m chart.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisions which prohibit and reverse abusive trading are common  within the terms of 
service for firms  which provide trading platform or brokering services. Those terms usually 
prescribe what the particular firm defines as abusive  trading and the action the firm can take 
in such cases.  
The wordings of these  terms  can differ and the firms position and contractual basis  to take 
action would be defined  by how the specific terms are expressed. Some terms allow the 
firms right to action  upon suspicion of abusive trading or upon  discretion over the 
Ref: DRN70935972determination that such trading has taken place. Other terms can require more  than a 
suspicion. I consider  that evidence required to support a firms position depends on the 
terms about when  and how it can take action   to show that those terms were met. In 
addition, and as I address  below, I consider the matter also depends on whether the firm has 
acted arbitrarily or reasonably in relation to those  terms.
In Mr As case  the agreed terms permitted Ayondo to take action where there  was suspicion 
of abusive trading and where  it determined  that such trading had taken place. Part of 
paragraph 18.17 of the terms says:
In the event that we [Ayondo] determine , at our own discretion, that an abusive trading 
technique has been used We reserve the right to take action as We see fit including  
reclaiming all funds  held in Your Account. [my emphasis]
The terms also allow action in the form of revoking trades and correcting and adjusting  
accounts.
As emphasised above, Ayondo had discretion to determine whether (or not) abusive trading 
had taken place  in Mr As case. I do not suggest it was entitled  to exercise its discretion 
arbitrarily. Ayondos discretion had to be reasonably applied, so there would  have been  a 
need to ensure that its suspicion of abusive trading in Mr As case was supported by the 
balance of evidence  it considered.
The agreed terms defined  abusive  trading to include trades based on prices  that do not 
reflect market rates. Ayondo has relied on the Bloomberg data I mentioned earlier and it has 
also presented evidence of comparable trades by other customers  which  it executed, around 
the same  time as Mr As, at prices  within its quotes. As the investigator explained, the prices 
for Mr As trades stood in notable contrast to the data and the prices in the comparable  
trades.
I note Mr As point in challenging the reliability  of this evidence,  in the context  of the volatility 
of prices and with reference to prices from LPs. However, a number  of comparable trades 
have been presented. Their prices are broadly consistent with each other and broadly 
consistent with the Bloomberg screenshot data. Execution  of those trades  indicates  the 
existence of liquidity that would have been  required to execute them. 
Mr As trades were  bought at the prices  1.32838 and 1.32817 respectively. At and around 
the same  time other customers comparable trades,  in the same currency  pair, were 
executed by Ayondo at prices around  1.33434. I do not consider that the volatility  of prices is 
relevant to such trades which  were executed at the same  time as Mr As or, arguably, those 
executed within one and two seconds  thereafter. Faced with this difference, I also do not 
consider it unreasonable that Ayondo was alerted to Mr As trades and exercised its 
discretion under the agreed terms. 
This conclusion stands in the context of the discretion that Ayondo contractually had and the 
reasonableness of its action. Mr A might consider that it should have been  or should be  
required to prove more than it has presented. However, based on the agreed terms Ayondo 
established a reasonable and sufficient basis to form its suspicion about the trades and to 
make the discretionary determination that the terms entitled it to make  and to take action 
permitted within those  terms.
Ref: DRN70935973my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7093597