K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Background
Mr B bought the policy in 2002,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  It covered his 
card in case he was off work sick or lost his job. Mr B appears to have only paid one 
premium for PPI, and it seems that premium  was later refunded.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
I have not found  that this PPI policy was mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr Bs credit  card application  had a section for optional extras, which  gave him the choice to 
take or turn down PPI. The box for PPI was ticked and Mr B signed the form to confirm  his 
choices. So I think that Barclays made  Mr B aware  he had a choice about buying  the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it at the time.
Both sides say Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B. That means they didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for him. They did have to give Mr B enough information  to 
decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave  Mr B about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr B chose  to take out the policy,  which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was significantly affected by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations. It wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Bs existing sick pay and offered him more  
comprehensive cover. And he doesnt seem  to have had any other protection in place. So 
the policy could  have been  useful  for Mr B in case something went wrong. And so I dont  
think better information about  the PPI was likely  to have  put him off taking it out.
Lastly, from the records of the account  it looks like Mr B was only charged once for PPI, in 
December 2002,  for 12p. He cancelled the policy before  being  charged further. He later 
received a refund of 12p, which would  appear  to be for the PPI policy.  And it seems he 
wasnt charged any interest on that 12p. So it doesnt look like Mr B actually lost any money 
paying for PPI, as it was all refunded.  And so even  if we had found  that the policy was mis-
sold, it seems  Barclays wouldnt  owe Mr B any money as thered be nothing to refund now.
Ref: DRN75296002My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before12 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7529600