K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality  Health Limited  acted  unfairly and unreasonably in refusing to 
refunds the premiums  paid since February  2017  or to pay for his treatment. He wants the 
refund.
background
Mr S had a private health insurance  policy with Vitality.  He was unhappy that his request for 
approval for treatment with Dr M was refused in 2019 as he wasnt a recognised provider for 
Vitality. Mr S had been previously treated by Mr M in 2015 and he felt that he shouldve been  
told that Dr M was no longer recognised. Mr S wanted  the premiums  hed paid since Dr M 
was de-recognised  in February 2017  as he said he wouldnt have continued  if hed known.
Mr S complained to Vitality.  It said it would  only tell policyholders if a doctor  had been de-
recognised if there was an open  claim in place.  As Mr S hadnt been treated by Dr M for over 
12 months when he was de-recognised, there  was no need to tell Mr S, especially as 
treatment had to be pre-authorised.  Vitality noted that there were many other doctors 
available to assist  Mr S and his health  needs.
Mr S complained to us. Vitality pointed out that it had over 1 million members  and it wasnt 
practical to tell each  one every time a doctor  was de-recognised, which was why it had the 
policy that it only told those undergoing  treatment  at the time with that doctor.  The 
investigators view was that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld  as Vitality wasnt  at fault. The 
policy only covered  treatment from those recognised by Vitality and Dr M wasnt  recognised 
in 2019 when Mr S wanted his treatment pre-authorised according to the investigator. She 
said that there was no duty to tell policyholders when a doctor they hadnt seen for over 
12 months was de-recognised, and it wasnt unreasonable to not to contact Mr S in 2017 
when Dr M was de-recognised. The investigator noted that Mr S had the benefit  of the policy  
and didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to refund  the premiums.
Mr S disagreed. He said that he only wanted  the treatment to be done by Dr M and said that 
only Dr M could perform the operation. Mr S felt strongly that the insurance policy had been 
no use to him since Dr M had been de-recognised and he shouldve  been told of the change.  
Mr S also referred to principles of insurance law.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive borne in mind the law, but must point 
out that the legal  principles referred  to by Mr S have changed since  the Insurance  Act 2015 
and related legislation.
The policy is clear that only treatments from recognised practitioners are covered. Dr M was 
not recognised  in 2019 and so it wasnt  unfair or unreasonable for Vitality  to refuse to pre-
authorise his work. Mr S says that Dr M is the only doctor who can perform  the procedure  he 
wants, but theres no independent medical evidence supporting  this view;  theres also no 
evidence that Mr S couldnt be treated  by another consultant in a different way. But in any 
event, it isnt unfair or unreasonable  for Vitality  to rely on the terms and conditions of the 
policy on this issue. Its standard practice for insurers  to require recognised practitioners to 
be used for a variety  of reasons.
Ref: DRN72639612Mr S says Vitality shouldve told him when Dr M was de-recognised. But this isnt a major  
change to the policy. And as Mr S hadnt seen Dr M for over a year in 2017  (and didnt need 
to see him until 2019),  I dont think that it was unfair  or unreasonable for Vitality not to notify 
him of the de-recognition; there was no on-going course of treatment or open claim. Mr S 
says he only had the policy to be able to see Dr M. But theres no evidence he notified  
Vitality of this or explained how important Dr M was to the policy.  
And I note that Mr S and his wife had the benefit  of the policy  from February 2017 onwards. 
They couldve used the expertise of the many  recognised providers with Vitality, should they 
needed or wished to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 19 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7263961