K822xcomplaint
Mr R says the mortgage advice he received from New Mortgage Finance Limited (NMF) 
was unsuitable.
A claims  management company, which Ill refer to as B, brings this complaint on Mr Rs 
behalf.
background
Mr R bought his home  for £96,000  in December 2004. He did so with the help of an interest 
only mortgage of £81,600, alongside  which ran an unsecured loan of £7,400 (on repayment 
terms). Mr R took out a further loan of £23,576 with a different provider in 2005, secured by 
way of a second charge over his property.
In January 2007, Mr R was advised by NMF to remortgage. NMF  recommended  a new 
interest only mortgage of £115,000, consolidating the mortgage and second charge loan. 
The new mortgage   taken out with a different lender  duly completed in March 2007. Mr R 
retained the unsecured loan.
In 2018, B raised a complaint with NMF on Mr Rs behalf. It raised a number of concerns 
with the sale of the mortgage, saying in particular  that:
By consolidating  his second charge loan within  an interest  only mortgage, Mr R was 
no longer paying  off the capital hed borrowed and would  owe more at the end of the 
term.
The amount  Mr R had borrowed on interest  only terms had increased significantly, 
and to 100%  of the propertys value.  The sale of the property  was detailed as the 
repayment vehicle,  which wasnt  suitable.  And Mr R hadnt been given appropriate 
warnings as to the possible  consequences  of this.
The costs of taking  out the mortgage  which had included an early repayment 
charge (ERC) on Mr Rs previous mortgage   came to £6418. Theyd all been added  
to the mortgage  balance  too, without appropriate notice.
Mr R was charged interest at 7.34% under his existing mortgage, but under the 
remortgage the rate was 7.39%. And he was now paying the debt over a longer term 
too.
Mr Rs monthly outgoings   in respect of the mortgage and second charge loan  had 
dropped from £848 to £772.  But he still had to pay the unsecured loan on top of this. 
And bearing in mind the amount of capital  switched  to interest only terms, and the 
fees for the changes  that had been added to the mortgage too, these savings werent 
enough to justify  it.
NMF didnt uphold the complaint. In summary,  it said:
Mr R wanted to refinance to reduce his outgoings as he felt overwhelmed with his 
existing arrangements and wanted  to escape the variable rate trap.  The remortgage 
met those objectives, saving him around  £75 a month.
Ref: DRN77136402The second charge loan had operated  on an interest only basis  (so by inference,  
consolidating this hadnt increased the amount of Mr Rs interest  only borrowing).
The fact that the mortgage operated on interest  only terms was discussed  with Mr R. 
But he wanted a period of stability in his payments so that he could either sell the 
property or make  capital  repayments  when his circumstances allowed. And he was 
made aware of the implications of borrowing  on interest only terms.
It had written to clients like Mr R in 2010,  suggesting they take advantage in the 
dramatic reduction in the base rate to make overpayments to reduce their mortgage 
balance. Had Mr R done so, as originally intimated  he would, hed be even better off 
by now.
Mr R had benefitted significantly  from lower  rates with the new lender over the course 
of the mortgage,  saving him in excess of £30,000  as compared to his previous 
arrangements.
B then referred the complaint to us, and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. He 
found that the second charge loan was on a repayment basis  and that NMF  ought  to have 
known that at the time. He didnt  think it was good  advice to consolidate  that on interest  only 
terms. And more broadly,  he thought  the remortgage had been an expensive way to achieve 
a relatively low reduction in monthly  payments. But in considering  how to put things right,  he 
thought that Mr Rs savings over the course  of the mortgage significantly outweighed the 
costs. So with no financial loss overall, he didnt think NMF  needed to do anything  to put 
things right.
As Mr R didnt  accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Rs complaint  in November 2019. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
NMF had said that Mr R approached it for help in reducing his outgoings  after 
struggling with his existing arrangements. But there  was little documentary  evidence 
of that and nothing to suggest hed actually missed any payments due on his 
mortgage or other borrowing. The application  to the new lender said hed never  
accrued any mortgage arrears  and the redemption statement from the second charge 
loan provider confirmed  the same for that account. But I accepted that Mr R had 
probably been keen to lower  his outgoings  (as most people  are)  and that given his 
income at the time, I could see how the costs of servicing the mortgage and two 
loans wouldve made things a bit tight for him.
NMF had pointed to the second  charge loan as the catalyst  of Mr Rs problems  
and refinancing that, it said, improved affordability. But while  I accepted that the 
remortgage did achieve the apparent aim of reducing Mr Rs outgoings, the reduction  
was quite marginal.  Monthly payments due under the new mortgage were  £722.50. 
But Mr R still had the unsecured loan. Payments  on that had been  £64.50   so 
adding the two together, the total cost of his borrowing wouldve been £787. Hed 
been paying around £848 to service  his borrowing previously  so this was a 
reduction of about £61 a month.
Ref: DRN77136403That figure, though,  was further reduced, given changes to the rate on the unsecured  
loan once the previous mortgage was redeemed.  That loan was on preferential terms 
by virtue of being provided within Mr Rs original mortgage arrangement   and when 
he repaid the mortgage, the interest rate would increase from 1.15% above the 
lenders standard  variable rate (SVR) to a margin of 5%, increasing the monthly 
payments from £64.50  to £80. So combining  that with his new mortgage payment of 
£722.50, Mr Rs outgoings were now around  £802.50  meaning  a reduction of just 
£46 in his monthly commitments overall.
On the one hand, then, the mortgage met Mr Rs aim of reducing  the monthly 
payments he had to make to service his debts. It lowered the interest  rate he was 
paying on the £23,000 second  charge loan, from 13% to 7.39%. Mr R also had a 
cash surplus available under  the mortgage   a little over £1,150  which he had the 
use of. And he was able to borrow that extra amount, while  decreasing his outgoings 
overall. But I thought  those  were relatively small benefits in light of the costs and 
drawbacks of the new arrangement,  which I went on to outline.
I noted that NMF had referred to the reduction  in outgoings as savings, but that 
wasnt accurate. Under Mr Rs existing arrangement,  the second charge  loan was 
operating on a repayment basis.  NMF said it hadnt understood  that to be the case, 
but I didnt think  that was right either   as it was noted as repayment within the 
application paperwork completed at the time.  So Mr R was paying back  the capital 
and the interest  on the second charge loan  meaning that at the end of the term, he 
wouldve paid off this £23,000 loan in full. But under  the remortgage, he was now 
only paying the interest on that amount. So while the monthly payments were lower,  
hed now owe an additional  £23,000 at the end of the term. He was also now paying 
the mortgage over a longer term and therefore incurring interest for longer. 
Mr R had already borrowed a significant  proportion of the property value on an 
interest only basis, but NMF recommended that he increase this further  from 
£83,000 (as it then was) to £115,000, equivalent  to 100% of the property value. This 
meant that hed need to find £115,000 at the end of the term to pay it back.  Mr R 
didnt have a separate  repayment vehicle; he was planning  to sell the property to 
repay the loan when  the time came. While  he was already in a similar  position  
beforehand, I thought the additional  secured borrowing on interest only terms had put 
him at even greater  risk of falling into negative equity  in other words, owing more 
on his mortgage  than his property was worth. That could have severe  consequences  
when Mr R comes  to sell. That struck  me as a significant  risk to take,  for what I 
considered to be a fairly marginal benefit.
I noted that Mr Rs existing mortgage was subject to an early repayment  charge  
(ERC). So for coming out of that arrangement early, hed had to pay an additional 
£2,448 along with a routine  administration discharge  fee of £225.  On top of that, Mr R 
had benefitted  from a help  with costs  incentive  when taking out his previous  
mortgage. But this was subject to being clawed back if the mortgage was repaid 
within the first three years. So hed had to repay that £1,000 too. In all then, hed had 
to pay £3,673 just to come out of the previous mortgage. I couldnt see that any 
consideration was given to that within NMFs recommendation  and again it seemed 
a sizeable cost for a marginal gain.
Ref: DRN77136404On top of those  costs  were the fees and charges that Mr R had to pay to set up the 
new mortgage, totalling £2,817:
Processing and completion costs to his solicitors (£750);
An unspecified fee to the new lender  (£25);
Two telegraphic transfer fees (£46.50);  and
NMFs fee for the advice (£1,995).
All in all then, Mr R had paid £6,490 to arrange  the mortgage that NMF 
recommended he take out. All of those costs were  then wrapped up within the new 
mortgage  increasing  the balance on which interest would be charged, and for 
which hed have  to find a way of paying  back when the term came to an end.
So weighing everything up, I didnt think NMFs recommendation was suitable.  I 
thought the better  advice wouldve been  to leave things  as they were  there wasnt  a 
suitable option for Mr R given his circumstances at the time. It seemed his existing 
arrangements had already been quite  stretching.  He couldve revisited things down 
the line: if nothing  else, the ERC period was due to expire in a years  time (so waiting 
until then wouldve saved  Mr R £3,673 and a years interest alone). He could then 
have approached his existing lender for a new interest rate product and/or explored 
his options across the market. And had NMF  advised Mr R along those lines,  I think  
its most  likely he wouldve acted in accordance  with that.
I thought Mr R had lost out as a result of what NMF did wrong. So to put him in the 
position he wouldve  been in  as far as would  be possible  I thought  NMF would 
need to:
Reimburse Mr R for all the fees and charges  associated with setting up the 
mortgage and exiting his previous arrangements, along with a refund of the 
interest these amounts  will have accrued by being added to the mortgage; 
and
Calculate how much  Mr R would now owe on the second charge loan had it 
not been consolidated, and pay him the difference between this amount and 
the amount paid to redeem it in 2007.  
I said Mr R could then decide whether  he wished  to pay some or all of these  amounts  
to his mortgage and reduce his level of secured  borrowing  to that which he would 
otherwise have had at this time.  Should he wish to do so, and if any ERC was then 
applied by his current lender, I thought  NMF should also pay for that. I invited Mr R to 
indicate his intention in that respect when responding to my provisional decision.
I noted that Mr Rs payments on the unsecured loan would also have increased as a 
result of the remortgage, and the interest on the original mortgage  balance was 
slightly higher too. But I thought those extra costs  wouldve been  comfortably offset 
by the lower interest rate Mr R will have benefitted from by paying interest at a 
reduced rate on the consolidated second  charge loan.  So I didnt think  NMF ought to 
compensate him for that.
Ref: DRN77136405Id considered NMFs  argument that Mr R was better  off overall  as hell have paid 
less interest for the reasons  noted  above  and because the SVR to which Mr Rs 
mortgage reverted to under  the new arrangement was lower than the one that 
wouldve applied  had he stayed with his previous lender. But I didnt think it was fair 
to deduct any possible saving  in interest from the compensation Id proposed. I 
thought such savings  wouldve  been  relatively modest, and understandably those 
small monthly amounts wouldve been consumed  within  Mr Rs day-to-day  
expenditure. I didnt think Mr R ought reasonably  to have set these amounts aside to 
make up for the shortcomings in NMFs advice, so I didnt  think it was fair to offset  his 
losses against them.
B confirmed  acceptance  of my provisional  decision.  It couldnt advise whether Mr R would 
use any of the settlement  to pay down his mortgage,  or whether doing so would incur  an 
ERC.
NMF didnt accept my provisional decision.  It responded  to say, in summary, that:
Mr R wouldnt  have been able to get a new deal with his existing lender or explore 
options across the market  as Id suggested. The 2007 financial crisis had caused his 
previous lender to stop offering  new products. And with new lending curtailed, Mr Rs 
circumstances wouldnt have been attractive to a new lender either. So instead,  it 
said Mr R wouldve  ended up stuck  a mortgage prisoner,  subject to high interest 
rates and still saddled  with his expensive second  charge  loan. 
It maintained that Mr R was significantly better off, as the new mortgage had a lower 
reversionary rate. Citing a lower  SVR under the new deal, it said Mr R had paid 
around £350 less each  month since February  2010 than he would otherwise have 
done. If Mr R had applied some of these  funds to pay down the mortgage, he 
couldve reduced the balance by the amount of the second charge loan by now.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including NMFs response to my 
provisional decision. But having  done  so, Ive not reached a different conclusion. Ill explain 
why NMFs further comments  havent  changed  my mind.
NMF didnt comment much further on the suitability of its recommendation within  its 
response. That is of course the main  issue here.  It didnt say anything further on the 
suitability of increasing Mr Rs level of interest  only borrowing to 100% of the property value, 
for which there was no repayment strategy. Or of the £6,490 it cost Mr R to set up the new 
mortgage, set against  the £46 reduction  in his monthly outgoings.
NMF focused on what happened in the years  after the sale. And those are valid points that 
Ill come  on to. But these  werent  things  that played a part in NMFs  recommendation at the 
time. It couldnt have  known, for example, of the changes that would be triggered by the 
financial crisis  to which it refers. While  it points  out that the SVR to which Mr Rs mortgage  
reverted ended up being lower than the one he wouldve been  on if hed not remortgaged, 
that couldnt have been foreseen  either.  And it would be quite unusual  to recommend a new 
mortgage on the basis of a reversionary  rate, given that most borrowers would expect  to be 
able to take out a new product on expiry of their old one.
Ref: DRN77136406So with no new points  for me to consider in respect  of the suitability of the mortgage, I still 
dont think NMFs recommendation was suitable.
It is then a question  of whether Mr R has lost out as a result of what went  wrong.  NMF says 
he hasnt. It says Mr R couldnt have got a new mortgage anywhere  else down the line, as 
Id suggested.  So it says Mr R ended up making  significant savings,  because  the lender it 
had put him with had a lower SVR than the one he left.
On this, I take NMFs point that as things turned out, Mr R wouldnt have been  able to get a 
new mortgage product  with his existing lender if hed stayed put. His existing deal wouldve 
expired in 2008, but by then his lender had stopped offering new rates following its collapse 
and nationalisation.  
But I dont accept that Mr R couldnt have got a new mortgage deal at all. While its fair to 
say that lending criteria  tightened as appetite to lend diminished, I dont agree that this 
meant Mr R wouldnt have  been  able to remortgage in 2008  (or at some point thereafter). 
NMF has made some  sweeping statements about lenders cherry picking what  they saw as 
quality business, with the example of such being  loan to value  ratios  under 60%. I dont  
accept this to have been the position across  the board. There  remained a market for 
borrowers with higher  loan to value ratios  and interest only mortgages, such  as Mr R. If 
things had been left as they were, Mr R wouldve had a loan to value ratio of under 90% 
when looking to remortgage (which wouldve continued to improve  as Mr R paid down the 
secured loan). 
So given Mr Rs circumstances and from what Ive seen  more widely of lending over the 
period in question, I think he wouldve been  able to source a new mortgage  elsewhere.
On the matter of the lower SVR, I said in my provisional decision that Id taken any possible 
savings in this respect  into account  and explained why I didnt  think it was fair to offset 
them against  the compensation Id proposed. NMF notes that Mr R has paid around £132 
less in interest each  month, on average, over the last 10 years.  Over  the course of the term 
in question, the savings  do add up to a significant  sum. But I still think  that saving  on a 
monthly basis  as Mr R wouldve experienced it  was relatively modest. So it would 
understandably have been  consumed within Mr Rs regular day-to-day expenditure, rather  
than applied to reduce  the outstanding capital balance in an effort  to mitigate  the 
shortcomings of NMFs  advice  the extent  of which I wouldnt expect Mr R to have 
recognised at the time.
So I still dont think its fair to deduct any savings  in interest that Mr R might have made by 
virtue of the lower SVR from the compensation Ive proposed.
As a result, and having taken everything  NMF has said into account, I still think the 
settlement I proposed  in my provisional decision remains a fair way to settle Mr Rs 
complaint. So thats what  Im requiring  it to pay him.
B hasnt  confirmed whether Mr R will use the compensation  he receives  if he accepts my 
final decision   to pay down his mortgage  balance. In my provisional decision I said I thought  
it would  be fair for NMF to cover  any ERC  that Mr R might incur  in doing so. I still think that, 
but I dont think  it should  be open-ended. So if Mr R pays all or any of the compensation to 
his mortgage within three  months of accepting my final decision, NMF should reimburse him 
that amount.  But NMF wont have to cover any charge incurred outside of this window.
Ref: DRN77136407my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  and require New Mortgage Finance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr R for all the fees and charges  associated with setting up the mortgage 
and exiting his previous  arrangements,  along with a refund of the interest these 
amounts will have  accrued by being  added to the mortgage.
Calculate how much  Mr R would now have owed  on the secured loan had it not been 
consolidated and pay him the difference between  this amount and the amount paid to 
redeem it in 2007. 
If Mr R opts to apply all or any of this compensation as a lump sum payment to 
reduce his current mortgage balance within three months of accepting this final 
decision and incurs  an early  repayment  charge in doing so, NMF will also need  to 
reimburse him for that. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7713640