K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way that Legal & General  Insurance  Limited (L&G) dealt with her 
home insurance claim for water damage  caused by a leak from her shower tray.
background
In March 2018 Miss C noticed that her shower was not draining properly. She used a 
plunger to unblock  it bur this caused all the water collected to leak through  the ceiling and 
onto the wooden floor in her lounge. She contacted  L&G to make a claim.  It sent out loss 
adjusters who arranged an initial survey of the damage. Miss C was asked to get a report 
from her plumber.
Miss C was on holiday then until 14 May.  She then provided the report to L&G and said she 
would prefer that it appoint contractors to carry out the repairs.  L&G appointed a specialist 
drying company  to take readings and make recommendations  for drying out. Contractors 
then attended  in early  June  for what Miss C thought would be to strip out the flooring to 
enable drying.  But they just took measurements. They booked to attend  at the end of June to 
deal with the flooring but missed a further  two appointments.  Miss C asked for a new 
contractor. The floor was made safe on 12 July (it was buckled, causing  a trip hazard), but 
the new contractors  couldnt do the strip out until the end of July. The property was dry by 
the following  week. Repairs then took place which were finalised on 12 October.
Miss C complained of delays and missed appointments which  caused  her difficulties as she 
had to ask someone  to attend for her. L&G agreed that the service  fell below its standards  
and offered a compensation  payment of £150. Miss C wasnt  happy  with that.
I issued a provisional decision. As L&Gs offer didnt take account of further delays after 
July 2018 I thought L&G should increase its compensation to £300.  L&G accepted this.
Miss C didnt agree that work couldnt start until after she returned from being away, as she 
had people who could  have taken care of the property while  she was away. However  she 
accepted my proposed compensation award.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
missed appointments
After agreeing that L&Gs contractors would do the work,  I think  there was some confusion  
about the initial appointment. The contractors notes state they were  there  to do an initial  visit 
and scope the work, but Miss B clearly expected the strip out to begin.  It appears that a 
further appointment was booked for this to start but the contractors failed to attend. They 
also failed to attend for a further  date due to a scheduling error. Both times  Miss C had 
asked someone to attend for her and had to do chasing up. She mentions that shed paid 
them  if she can show us any evidence of that I will consider it.
Ref: DRN75360842As she was fed up with those contractors, she asked for different ones. L&G agreed that. 
Unfortunately on the date they had booked in to do the strip out their van broke down, 
causing another missed appointment.
I can understand that this was very frustrating for Miss C  she had to do a lot of chasing up 
as she wasnt told the contractors werent attending. I should point out here that L&G was 
ultimately responsible  for them as they were its agents, even if it wasnt  aware of their 
missing the appointments.
delays
This escape of water  claim took over six months to resolve. Whilst such cases  can take 
some time to resolve, this is usually where  there  is substantial drying  out to be done. Here  
the water  came immediately from the shower and as far as I can see was a one-off escape  
rather than one which came from a pipe which had been leaking for a long time. The actual 
drying took a week.
I understand that Miss C was away for five weeks between April and May. This does mean 
that the work  couldnt start until after she returned. But it appears  that she wasnt  told the 
first visit would merely  be to scope the work  she thought she had agreed  to the work being 
done by L&Gs contractors and it could start with the strip out. Whilst the trip hazard in the 
lounge was made safe around 12 July, strip out couldnt commence  until three weeks  later. I 
understand that bringing in new contractors  caused a further delay but I do think Miss C was 
justified in asking  for them.
The drying out only took a week but the repairs themselves took another two months  to 
complete  I havent  seen any reason for this.
I do think this was a straightforward  case which took a long time to resolve. Miss C was left 
with a trip hazard in the lounge for well over two months which could have been dealt with 
very quickly. Whilst Miss C going away delayed  the start of things, I think  the missed 
appointments and the delays in starting  the strip out added  to the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. 
compensation
L&Gs offer of compensation was made to Miss C at the end of July so didnt take account  of 
further delays  and the further missed appointment. I think, for the trouble and upset caused 
by the way the whole claim was dealt with L&G should pay compensation of £300.  That 
includes its previous  offer which  I believe hasnt been paid as Miss C rejected  it.
As both parties accepted my proposed  compensation award,  I wont  make any further 
comment, except to note Miss Cs views. My provisional findings are now final and form part 
of this final decision.
Ref: DRN75360843my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require L&G to pay to Miss C £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7536084