K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Saga Services Limited overcharged him for his motor  insurance 
policy.
background
In 2017 Saga charged Mr C around £402 for his policy. He was involved in an accident that 
year. The accident wasnt  his fault but the claim for it still hadnt been settled when his policy 
renewed in 2018.  At that time his premium  increased to roughly £687.  A few months later the 
claim was settled as not being Mr Cs fault. Saga recalculated Mr Cs premium  and paid him 
a refund of around £117. That means  that his recalculated annual  premium for 2018 was 
around £570. Mr C said that was an increase  of around 42% when compared with his 2017 
premium and complained.
Saga didnt think it had done anything wrong so Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator thought Saga had dealt with Mr C fairly.  Mr C didnt agree so his complaints  
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ill start by explaining, as Mr C is probably  aware,  that Saga is an insurance broker  not an 
insurer. That means it arranges and administers policies but it doesnt  actually provide the 
cover. Thats  done  by the insurers of the specific policies  Saga sells. And the insurers  are 
separate businesses  to Saga, although I understand Saga plays  a part in the retail price of 
the policies it sells. 
In this case, Mr Cs premium went up sharply after he told Saga about the claim. Thats 
standard industry practice  as insurers  and brokers treat open claims as fault claims until 
theyre settled. And its apparent that Mr C was expecting the premium to reduce  to 
something like the amount he was paying  before the accident, once the claim was closed as 
not being his fault.  But while  Saga  did pay him a refund after the claim was settled,  his 
premium remained around  £170 more than it had been the previous year. So I can 
understand why he was concerned about such a steep increase in premium.  But that doesnt 
mean that Sagas done anything wrong.
Were not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell an insurer  or broker  how 
much it can charge for its policies. Neither  is it my role to tell an insurer what factors  it should 
take into account when assessing  risk. Different insurers will have different views  on what 
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial judgement 
and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with. And we generally  take the 
view that, providing they treat people fairly insurers and brokers  are entitled  to charge what  
they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk.
In this case I can see that Mr Cs premium remained considerably higher than it had been  
before the accident. And Saga explained  to Mr C that even non-fault  incidents will affect  
premiums. Thats because many  insurers say their statistics show  that drivers  whove had 
non-fault incidents are more likely to go on to be involved in fault claims. So insurers  reflect 
Ref: DRN78618192that increased risk in the premiums  they charge. But there  would also have been other 
factors that affected Mr Cs premium. And as Ive said above  its not for me to tell an insurer  
how much  it should charge. So the fact that a premium may have risen  steeply doesnt mean 
that Sagas calculated  it unfairly.
Mr C said that he wouldnt have renewed  with Saga if hed known that his premium would 
remain high after the claim  was closed as non-fault. That might  have been the case,  but I 
havent seen any evidence that Saga told him the premium would reduce to its previous 
level. Im also aware that most insurers will review  their risk assessments  and how much 
they charge to cover that risk - regularly. So premiums can go up or down, sometimes fairly 
dramatically, depending  on the insurers assessment of risk. And premiums can fluctuate 
significantly and that might not be reflective of inflation generally. But as long as they treat 
customers fairly - that is they dont single out specific individuals  for unfair  treatment - thats 
something insurers and brokers are allowed to do. And its for Saga to decide how much it 
wishes to charge in order to make a profit while retaining customers  business. Its also worth 
noting that Mr C was under no obligation  to renew  with Saga. So I dont think it treated him 
unfairly.
For completeness Mr Cs also commented on the premium Saga offered him to renew his 
premium in 2019. But, as far as Im aware, that wasnt a complaint hes put to Saga directly.  
And as it hasnt had the opportunity to respond to Mr Cs concerns it wouldnt be fair for me 
to comment on the 2019  premium  in this decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7861819