K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about issues  shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from Go 
Car Credit Limited
Background
In May 2018  Mrs C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Go Car Credit. At the point of supply the car was approximately  8 years old and had covered 
approximately 93,000 miles.
Mrs C experienced issues  with the electronic  fuel display and time and date display  not 
functioning correctly.  One day the car wouldnt move  at some traffic  lights because it had run 
out of fuel.
Mrs C contacted the dealership and said she wanted to reject the car. The dealership said it 
wanted the opportunity to inspect and repair  the car.
Mrs C took the car to a garage arranged by the dealership.  It wasnt  possible to carry out a 
diagnostic test because  there wasnt enough fuel in the car.
Mrs C took the car to a different garage  for a diagnostic test in September  2018.  A fuse was 
replaced which resolved  the problems with the fuel gauge  and the time and date display. 
The diagnostic test also identified  an issue with the radio.
The dealership reimbursed Mrs C for the cost of the diagnostic test and the fuse.
In October  2018 Mrs C contacted the dealership and reported a fault with the Bluetooth 
connectivity and a fuzzy radio. She asked  to reject the car. The dealership said it wanted  to 
inspect the car but so far Mrs C hasnt made  any arrangements  to book it in.
Since raising  concerns about the car Mrs C has started using  it again  and no longer wants  to 
reject it. She wants a reduction in her monthly  payments going forward  to reflect  the issues  
shes experienced. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the repairs to the fuel gauge and 
time/date display had been successful and that Go Car Credit  had acted fairly in offering to 
cover the cost of any repairs required to fix the Bluetooth connectivity and the radio.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said her complaint was about the dealership  and she felt it had got 
away with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Go Car Credit  has supplied the car under  a hire purchase agreement  theres  an 
implied term that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if 
they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand  car to have a degree  of wear and tear. So in 
Ref: DRN70239212order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality due to an inherent defect rather than general  wear and tear.
Mrs C and Go Car Credit disagree  about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all of the available information and determine,  on 
the balance of probability, whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs C experienced issues  with the fuel gauge  almost immediately. Where  a fault presents 
itself within  the first 6 months its generally  up to the business to put things right.  The 
business is allowed  one opportunity to repair a fault. If the repair  isnt successful then the 
consumer can ask to reject the car.
In this case the fault with the fuel gauge was repaired successfully by replacing  a fuse. 
Mrs C has been reimbursed for all of her costs  in relation to the diagnostic  and repair  so I 
dont think the business needs  to do anything more here.
Mrs C subsequently  experienced issues with the Bluetooth and radio. She hasnt arranged  
for the dealership to look at this issue yet so its not clear whether  theres  a fault.  As Ive said 
above, the business is allowed one opportunity  to repair the fault.
I understand that Mrs C has lost faith in the dealership. Go Car Credit  has said that if Mrs C 
provides a quote for repairs to the Bluetooth and radio it will arrange  for the repairs  to be 
completed and cover  the costs. 
Subject to Mrs C being able to choose which garage  provides a quote and carries out the 
repairs to the Bluetooth  and radio,  I think the business has offered a fair resolution  to the 
complaint. So I wont  be asking Go Car Credit to accept the request to reject or to reduce 
Mrs Cs payments going forwards. In conclusion, Im satisfied that Go Car Credit  has acted 
fairly and that the offer to pay for repairs to the Bluetooth  and the radio is a fair resolution. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7023921