K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1996 and at the same time she took out MPPI. 
The premiums were  payable monthly  and were about £18. And the policy covered Mrs M 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Halifax has been unable  to give us a copy of the policy  that was in use at the time of the sale 
of the insurance.  It has however sent us one that was used about 8 months  later, (the 
Policy). Knowing what we do generally about these types of policy I think that it is 
reasonable to assume that the terms and conditions of the MPPI taken by Mrs M didnt vary 
much from the Policy
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. As Mrs M didnt 
agree with this view the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection  insurance on 
our website. Ive followed  this in making my decision in this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  I explain why below.
Mrs M says that she had no idea that the policy had been added  to her account. But I 
think that she knew that the policy  was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  an application form for MPPI  signed by Mrs M. It contains  details of 
her employment, the amount of cover  required and other information about her. It also 
has various alternative yes and no boxes which have been ticked  dealing with 
information that shows she was likely to have been eligible for the policy. This has all 
been completed by hand. 
The form also asks whether Mrs M wants insurance  cover. On balance I think that this 
has a pre-printed tick in it. However the form is headed; Application for Payment Guard 
Insurance and is separate  from Mrs M mortgage  application form, which Ive also seen. 
And the former form isnt very long. So I think that its reasonable and fair to assume that 
Mrs M knew  that she was applying for the policy and not the mortgage or anything  else 
when she signed  it. I think that my view is reinforced because  the form contained a 
separate direct debit  instruction and the statement that she was applying for MPPI. 
Because the sale was so long ago I can understand why Mrs M no longer remembers  
the detail of what happened when  she took the policy. In fact neither she nor Halifax  
could tell us whether the insurance  and mortgage were sold face-to-face, over the phone 
or by post.
Because neither party can confirm the way in which the policy  was sold I dont know  
whether Halifax recommended the policy to Mrs M or not. If it did, it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable  for her needs. Knowing  what  I do about 
Ref: DRN77022692Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time and the terms and conditions  of the Policy, I find that 
it is likely  that it was suitable. I say this because:
oMrs M would have  been eligible for the Policy;
oMrs M wasnt caught by any of the Policys main limitations and restrictions  such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
oMrs M has told us that she was entitled  to some sick pay and a redundancy package  
from her employment. But that she had no savings  or other insurance to help her 
make her mortgage  repayments had she not been  working.  However, following a 
successful claim  the MPPI  would  have paid £300  a month. These  payments  would  
have been made in addition to anything Mrs M would have received from her 
employer. And I think its likely  that these payments would have been paid for up to 
12 months. So I find that the policy would have been of use to her;
oI havent seen  anything to suggest that Mrs M couldnt afford  the policy.  And in any 
event, had Mrs M later felt that it was u affordable or that she no longer wanted it, 
she could have  cancelled  it at any time without  further cost;
oThe MPPI was reasonably priced  by reference to other policies available  in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit.
Whether or not Halifax  recommended  the policy to Mrs M it had to give her clear, fair and 
not mis-leading  information about  it so that she could make an informed decision 
whether to take it or not. Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mrs M everything that it ought 
to have. But as Ive found that she chose to take it and that its likely that it would have 
been of use to her I dont  think  that better information would have changed  Mrs Ms mind 
and stopped her buying it. I say this particularly  bearing in mind  the serious 
consequences that could have arisen  had she not been able to make  her monthly 
mortgage repayments. This means  that Mrs M hasnt lost out because of anything  wrong  
in Halifaxs sales process. So theres  nothing I require Halifax  to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7702269