K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about how Apple Retail UK Limited (Apple) sold him a credit agreement 
and insurance  policy  when he upgraded his mobile phone  and when the phone later 
developed a fault. To settle the complaint, Mr L wants compensation for the time hes spent 
dealing with Apple.  
background
Mr L used Apples iPhone Upgrade  Programme to obtain a new phone.  The programme was 
an ongoing agreement  that Mr L had used  previously and involved taking out a loan through 
a third party (the bank)  to finance the phone. The programme  included AppleCare+ - which  
is an extended warranty with accidental damage cover.  The accidental damage  cover was 
underwritten by an insurance company (the insurer). 
Mr L says his phone developed a fault,  so Apple replaced the handset  but when Mr L found 
the second handset  was also faulty,  Apple offered to unwind the deal  with Mr Ls 
agreement. Apple then removed him from being tied into the financial agreement at no cost 
and refunded him any payments hed made.  This also meant  Mr L handed back  the new 
handset.
Mr L has raised several concerns about  what happened during the sale of the upgrade  and 
when his phone developed a fault. These are:
He was mis-sold the Apple  Upgrade Programme  as he wasnt told the key exclusions 
or provided with a paper  copy  of the terms and conditions at the point the mobile 
phone was sold. 
It wasnt made clear that Apple is a credit broker not the lender. 
Apple  didnt record correct information on their website about the insurer who 
underwrites the accidental damage  cover under AppleCare+.
Apple  is jointly  responsible for informing him about changes to the insurers  structure. 
Apple didnt agree it had done anything wrong,  so Mr L brought his complaint  to us. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt uphold  it. 
Mr L disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done this, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, not everything  Mr L has complained about is something this 
service can investigate. The Upgrade  Programme itself is about  getting a new iPhone each 
year. But that isnt something that is regulated  by the FCA. The rules  about what I can 
consider are listed under Dispute Resolution rule 2.6.1   and this can be found online  in the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) handbook  
(https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/6.html?date=2006-08-30).   
Ref: DRN72092792This means  I am only able to look at Apples  actions  when arranging the insurance between 
the third parties  and Mr L. So, I can consider  his comments that he wasnt  given a paper 
copy of the terms and conditions of the agreements at the time he got his upgrade under 
these rules. My understanding is that Mr L has also said he wasnt given the chance  to sit 
down and read the terms in store. 
Looking at the information thats  been provided, I can see Mr L was emailed a copy  of the 
terms and conditions. Also, from what Mr L has told me  its not that he didnt see the terms 
and conditions at all before he entered into the agreements; its more that they werent  given 
to Mr L in his preferred  method. It isnt clear whether Mr L asked to have a paper copy or to 
sit down to read them. But there is no evidence that Apple  refused  to do either of these 
things. I have also considered the fact that Mr L had used the programme before, so I think  
its reasonable to say he is likely  to have been aware of what  was included within the 
agreements. 
So, on balance, I cant say Apple has done anything wrong  here. 
Mr L says it wasnt made clear to him that Apple  was a credit broker and not the lender with 
regards to the finance for his purchase. Ive looked at the credit agreement  Mr L signed for 
the loan and I can see on the document  it says that Apple  is the Credit intermediary and the 
bank is the Creditor . In the document headed  Your loan explained  it also says that the loan 
is from the bank. 
I also note that Mr L signed  a very similar  agreement a few months earlier  for his previous 
mobile and didnt raise  this concern  then.  So, I think Apple made it clear it wasnt  the lender 
and as such I dont  agree that Apple has failed to make Mr L aware.
Looking now at the incorrect information on Apples website; I can see that Apple has agreed 
there was an error, and it has taken on-board Mr Ls feedback and changed it. The remit in 
which I can consider complaints extends  to ones  made by individuals and the impact that 
any error has had on that individual. From  everything Ive been given, I cant  see that Mr L 
has been directly impacted by this error or that it has caused him any financial loss. So, I 
wont be asking Apple to do any more on this point. 
Mr L is free to make a complaint to Apples regulators  the FCA. But I should point out that 
the FCA doesnt respond to individual complaints. 
Mr L says because Apple was a broker, it was jointly responsible for telling him that the 
insurer was making changes in preparation of the UK leaving  the EU. Apple  would  have 
been responsible during the introduction  to the insurer to point out anything that might have 
impacted Mr L directly in anyway about the policy he was taking out. Its not clear  whether 
Apple highlighted the changes the insurer was going through to Mr L during the sales  
process, but I cant see that these changes impacted Mr L directly. So even if Apple didnt do 
something is should have, I dont think  Mr L has lost out because  of this. So, I dont think 
Apple needs  to do any more with this matter.  
I understand that Mr L is disappointed that his upgrade hasnt gone the way he clearly  hoped 
it would. I appreciate how frustrating this must  have been. And I also know that this all 
happened around a time where Mr L was having  to deal with other personal matters. 
Ref: DRN72092793Ive given a lot of thought to everything  Ive been given, and whilst Apple has made  some  
errors, for the reasons  explained above, I wont be asking Apple to pay any compensation 
here. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7209279