K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds  service  following a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss Rs car was damaged beyond repair in a fire. Haven paid her claim but Miss R was 
unhappy that it recorded the incident as a fault claim. She was also unhappy  with the effect  
this had on her renewal premiums.
Our investigator didn't think Haven had done anything wrong. Miss R didn't agree so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I had previously issued  a jurisdiction decision in which I explained that some  of Miss Rs 
complaints were out of time. So I don't  intend  to comment  on those matters in this decision. 
Im also aware Miss H has complained about the action of her broker.  But as that is a 
separate business I havent addressed her complaint about the broker in this decision.
recording the incident as a fault claim
Miss R said that she wasn't  to blame  for the fire and Haven had told her that the claim would 
be marked as non-fault.  So she was unhappy when she learnt that it had recorded the 
incident as a fault claim.  
It might help if I explain that the term fault when referring to the recording of an insurance 
claim is slightly misleading.  In this context fault  doesn't necessarily mean that the 
policyholder has done anything wrong  or is anyway to blame for the cause  of a claim. 
Instead insurers use the term fault to refer to a situation where they haven't been able to 
recover their outlay  - what theyve paid out to settle  a claim - from another  source. And thats  
the case here. That is, because no-one is to blame for the fire Haven doesnt have anyone  it 
can recover its outlay from. So it recorded  the claim as fault. And I think  thats reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Miss R said that Haven told her that it would record the claim as non-fault. But I haven't seen 
evidence, beyond Miss Rs comments,  that's the case. Indeed  I've listened to a phone call in 
which Haven made it clear that because it had no prospect of recovering its outlay it would 
record the claim as fault. And I think its been consistent about that. So I think Haven has 
dealt with Miss H fairly.
renewal premium
When Miss Rs policy was due for renewal  her premium increased considerably.  I can 
understand how worrying and upsetting Miss R must have  found  that. But that doesn't  mean 
that Haven has done anything wrong.  
Ref: DRN79455782I think its worth pointing  out that were not the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) is. And its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what 
factors it should assess, or how much risk to attach  to each of those factors.  Insurance  is 
essentially an assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, providing  they treat 
people fairly,  insurers  are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order  to cover a 
risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will assess how likely it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how much they might 
have to pay out for those. 
Haven has provided  us with some  information showing how its calculated Miss Rs 
premiums both before and after renewal.  And its explained to Miss R some  of the key 
reasons for the premium  increase. And those include that her replacement  car was a higher  
insurance grouping  and a higher value than the car it replaced. And that means  that Haven 
saw it is a higher  risk. Similarly,  the fact that Miss R had a fault  claim on her insurance 
history meant that Haven  considered her to be a higher risk. And its usual for insurers  to 
consider that customers with a recent  fault claim are a higher risk than people without such 
claims. And insurers then reflect that change in risk in their premiums. 
That's what Haven  did in this case, it reassessed  the risk it felt that Miss Rs circumstances 
presented and it charged her a premium  that it felt reflected that risk. And having looked  at 
that information Havens shown us carefully I can see the increased premium took into 
account relevant  factors  and how those  have changed. And I can see that its applied  those 
rating factors as it would for other  consumers with similar circumstances. And while I can 
understand Miss Rs unhappiness at the size of the increase in premium, I think  Haven has 
dealt with her reasonably.
I understand that Miss R has some very difficult personal circumstances. And shes  found  
paying for her increased premium problematic.  But, as I've said above, I think Haven has 
treated her fairly. So while I have immense sympathy for the position she finds  herself in it 
wouldnt be fair for me to uphold her complaint  on that basis alone.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019. 
Joe Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7945578