K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National  at the time) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr C applied for a mortgage with Santander in 2008  and bought  the PPI policy at around the 
same time. The policy wouldve paid a monthly  benefit of £422 for up to 12 months if Mr C 
lost his job.
Among other  things, Mr C says the policy exclusions  werent  explained and he had no 
financial need for it because he had good  sick pay.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr C disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander needed to make it clear to Mr C he had a choice about PPI and get his 
agreement to it. The sale took place in a meeting  and I cant  know what  was discussed. But I 
have seen a copy  of a document from the time called  a High Level  Needs Analysis, which 
indicates Mr C wanted to protect his mortgage against unemployment only  and not against  
accident and sickness. So I think its likely  there was some discussion between  Mr C and 
Santander about PPI and he chose  the cover  he wanted.  I can also see from Mr Cs 
mortgage offer that the only insurance he had to take out as a condition of his new mortgage 
was buildings  insurance. So I think its likely Mr C agreed to the PPI knowing he had a 
choice about it, and thats why it was added to his account.
Both Mr C and Santander agree it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C. That means  Santander 
didnt need to check it was right for him in his circumstances. But it did need to give Mr C 
enough clear information  about  the policy for him to be able to make  that decision  himself in 
an informed way. I dont  know what steps  Santander took to do this, and it may be that not 
everything was as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, if Mr C had had all the clear  information  Id 
expect Santander  to have given him, I dont think it wouldve  stopped him from buying  the 
PPI. I say this because,  from what Mr C says of his circumstances at the time and the policy  
details Ive got:
Mr C was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt  look as if hed have been affected  by 
some of the things  the policy wouldnt have covered  like unusual  employment 
arrangements. So I think he couldve claimed the full policy benefit if hed needed  to.
Mr C says he got good sick pay. But this policy didnt  cover him for accident  or 
sickness. It would, though, have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  for each  
successful unemployment claim he made.  I think Mr C couldve found this useful if he 
lost his job, especially  bearing in mind he was taking out a long-term and significant 
Ref: DRN75201042financial commitment and his home  was at risk if he fell behind with his mortgage 
repayments.
Although I dont know how Santander  explained the cost of the policy to Mr C, it 
doesnt look as if it was unaffordable for him.
I dont think Mr C has lost out because of anything Santander may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7520104