K821x#15complaint
Mr S opened  an account with Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as SafetyNetCredit) (SNC) in 
July 2016. He complains that SNC:
Lent to him irresponsibly.
Recorded incorrect information on his credit  file.
Took repayments in an unfair  way which caused  him financial difficulty.
Continued to view his bank account after hed asked it to stop.
Advertised the account  as being cheaper than an overdraft  when this wasnt  true.
Provided him with generally poor customer service.
background
The circumstances of Mr Ss case,  and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision. In brief 
summary, I said I was minded to uphold Mr Ss case in part, because  SNC had been wrong 
to increase his credit  limit a second  time,  and should have halted further drawdowns from 
the same  point. I didnt  find that SNC  had acted incorrectly  in respect of Mr Ss other  points 
of complaint.
Neither SNC  nor Mr S has replied to my provisional decision  and the case has now been  
returned to me to review once again.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law along with 
any relevant regulatory  guidance and good industry  practice at the time.
As neither party to the complaint has put forward  any new evidence or arguments  for me to 
consider, I see no reason  to depart from the findings  set out in my provisional decision. It 
follows that I am partially upholding Mr Ss complaint for the same reasons set out in that 
provisional decision.
putting things right
SNC shouldnt have given Mr S the second or third increase to his credit limit or allowed 
further drawdowns from the point of the second increase onwards  so its not right that he 
should have to pay interest,  fees or charges incurred  after those increases, or have them 
affect his credit file in a negative way.
Ref: DRN71513502So, to put things right I direct SNC  to:
Remove any interest, fees and charges from Mr Ss account  which  relate to any 
drawdowns made from the point of his second  credit limit increase onwards, and 
ensure no further interest is charged  on the account.
Allow Mr S to repay the remaining balance in line with the most  recent  arrangement 
of £40 per month.
Record Mr Ss account as up to date if he maintains his repayment  arrangement.  
The account  should still be considered up to date if Mr S and SNC later agree 
monthly repayments of below £40, so long as these  are enough to cover the 
contractual minimum repayments.
Record Mr Ss account as settled once it has been repaid.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint in part and direct  Indigo  Michael Limited to take the actions outlined in the putting 
things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71513503COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains Indigo Michael Limited (trading  as SafetyNetCredit) (SNC) made various acts or 
omissions which could be summarised as follows:
Lending to him irresponsibly.
Recording incorrect information on his credit file.
Taking repayments in an unfair way which  caused him financial difficulty.
Continuing to view his bank account after hed asked it to stop.
Advertising the account  as being cheaper than an overdraft when its not.
Providing him with generally poor customer service.
background 
Mr S opened  an account  with SNC in July 2016. This was a type of running  account credit which 
allowed Mr S to borrow up to a set credit  limit. His initial credit limit was set at £300, and this was then 
increased three times, to £330 in August  2016, £450  in September 2016  and £600 in October  2016.
SNC had read-only access to Mr Ss bank account which  it used to make decisions to lend to him, 
and when to take payments  from his account.  If Mr S had an outstanding  balance on his SNC account  
and money  was detected coming into his bank account,  then SNC would  claim a repayment from Mr 
Ss debit card, using a continuous payment authority  (CPA).
On 29 October 2016 Mr S sent an email to SNC to say the account was not as advertised and he was 
paying a fortune  in interest. He asked to be contacted about closing the account and to discuss the 
fees. He added that hed instructed his bank not to make any further payments to SNC.
On 9 November 2016 SNC received notification of a successful chargeback from Mr Ss bank on a 
repayment of £729.60 which had originally  been  taken on 29 October 2016. This amount was added  
back on to Mr Ss SNC balance,  which had been £657.60 at the time.
Various emails went back and forth between Mr S and SNC  after 29 October 2016 which  resulted in 
an agreement that Mr S would pay £40 per month towards his outstanding balance, and SNC would  
remove adverse  information  from his credit file from a certain point.  There were then some  further 
disagreements about  the information being recorded on the credit file. This service  became involved 
in the complaint while  these discussions were ongoing, early in 2017, and the issue of irresponsible 
lending was raised  and then responded to by SNC in a letter of 30 March 2017. It did not agree that it 
had been wrong either to open Mr Ss account  or increase his credit  limit.
Mr S was dissatisfied  with this response, and with the other issues listed earlier in this decision.  He 
asked this service to carry out an independent assessment.
SNC then told us that it wanted to make  an offer to Mr S to settle his complaint.  It said that it had 
handled Mr Ss email of 29 October 2016 badly and it should have frozen the interest on his account  
at that point and arranged a repayment plan with him. 
SNC offered  to remove £317.34 unpaid  interest from Mr Ss current  balance,  and refund interest Mr S 
had paid from 29 October  2016. It said it would continue to accept repayments of £40 per month from 
Mr S and would mark the account as settled once it was paid off.
One of our adjudicators  reviewed Mr Ss case and concluded  SNCs offer was fair. He wrote to Mr S 
to recommend that he accept it. Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators assessment, especially on the 
issue of irresponsible lending, and made a number of points to support his position.
As no agreement could  be reached, the case has been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN71513504my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law along with any relevant regulatory  
guidance and good industry practice at the time.
I will address Mr Ss concerns about irresponsible lending  before going  on to consider the other 
outstanding issues.
SNC had to assess Mr Ss initial application for a credit limit of £300, and the subsequent  increases, 
to check  if he would  be able to afford to make his expected  repayments.  It needed  to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. It then needed to assess  whether  based on the 
information it had gathered from its proportionate checks  Mr S could  afford to make his repayments 
sustainably. The industry regulators over the period  Mr S borrowed had explained  in guidance that 
repayments are sustainable  if theyre  made from income  or savings, and while meeting  other financial 
commitments.
SNC has said it carried out very detailed  checks before lending to Mr S and this does appear to be 
the case. It had access to about 3 months of Mr Ss bank statements before it opened  the account,  
and it continued to have  access to these statements before each increase to the credit limit. It also 
appears SNC carried out enquiries  with a credit reference agency before beginning to lend to him. 
SNC says the results of these enquiries showed Mr S hadnt had any defaults  in the past 12 months.
In any event, if a person  has had financial  problems this does not necessarily mean that no lender 
should lend to them. However,  I would  expect a detailed assessment to be made  of that persons 
ability to repay  what they propose  to borrow. I think SNC  acted proportionately by viewing  Mr Ss bank 
account transactions before  it agreed to lend to him, but I also need to consider whether it interpreted  
these transactions appropriately.
SNCs interpretation of Mr Ss financial  situation
SNC hasnt provided much of an explanation of its analysis of Mr Ss financial situation.  Its said only 
that it had calculated he had a disposable income  of over £1,000 per month,  meaning even a £600 
credit limit should have been manageable  for him. Ive analysed Mr Ss account  transactions  myself to 
see if SNCs interpretation  is a reasonable one. 
I think  in this case it was especially important for SNC to carry  out a very careful analysis because the 
account it had access to was a joint account Mr S held with his wife. As SNC  wouldnt have known the 
split of financial responsibilities between the two of them, or whether payments  into the account  
related to Mr S or his wife, I think it should have made further enquiries to determine  the answers to 
these things. There  was also an absence of rent or mortgage payments on the account  and I think  
this should have  prompted further questions also.
the initial  credit limit
Mr Ss SNC account  had a minimum repayment set at 5% of the outstanding  capital and interest 
balance, or £20 (whichever was greater). At his initial credit limit Ive estimated the minimum  
repayment would have been no more than £20.
My analysis of the account  transactions  SNC  would have seen, and what  I think  it would have likely 
found out had it asked further questions before lending  to Mr S, is that the minimum repayment was 
affordable. Ill explain why.
Mr S earned  around £2,800 per month. I understand his wife was not earning at the time but used the 
account occasionally,  so the family financial commitments rested with him. It appears Mr S paid 
around £175  per month in council tax and £12.12  for his TV Licence. Telecoms and entertainment 
Ref: DRN71513505contracts accounted for another £260 per month. It appears  he paid around £33 towards what 
appeared to be a credit card, and a variable amount towards catalogue shopping accounts, which 
was about £30 per month when he applied  for his SNC  account.
Mr S had a hire purchase agreement towards which  he paid £175 per month.  Other vehicle related 
expenditure was quite  substantial, with fuel spending  approaching £300 per month, insurance £52 per 
month and road tax £18 per month.  It appears Mr S was also making  variable payments towards a 
second hire purchase  agreement.
There were  a number of other transactions on Mr Ss account which appeared to be regular 
subscriptions, account fees and other miscellaneous regular expenses, which came to around £155 
per month.  Mr Ss food expenditure is not straightforward to identify from the account transactions  as 
it appears to have been quite  variable. Mr Ss representative has suggested a figure of £280  per 
month and I think this would have been a reasonable  assumption for SNC to make based on the size 
of Mr Ss family.
Altogether, it would appear Mr Ss regular  monthly expenditure at the point he opened  the SNC  
account, was around £1,520. Mr Ss representative has said he also paid rent of £700 per month. If 
this is included, Mr Ss regular expenditure would have been around £2,220 per month, leaving him 
with £580 per month to make repayments to SNC. This is enough  to make his minimum repayment so 
I dont think it was wrong of SNC to open the account for him. 
the credit limit increases
Ive estimated the largest minimum repayment  Mr S could be expected to make with a credit limit of 
£330, was about £21. This is based on him drawing the maximum of £330 and making no interim  
repayments from one payday to the next.  
Having reviewed  the account transactions over the month prior to the credit limit increase,  I dont think 
SNC would have considered the slight credit limit increase unaffordable for Mr S. If anything, I think  it 
would have appeared  to SNC that Mr Ss regular  expenditure  had decreased.
For the second credit  limit increase, to £450, Ive estimated the largest minimum repayment would 
have been around £29. 
I think  SNC should have noticed at this point that Mr Ss expenditure  had been much greater than the 
month before it granted the first increase.  Certain  types of expenditure   such  as payments to the 
second hire purchase  company  had been absent the previous month but had now doubled. Council  
tax had also disappeared and then reappeared  at a greater amount. Payments  towards catalogue 
accounts and credit cards  had increased  too.
In my view,  Mr Ss pattern of transactions was indicative of someone who was struggling  to meet  their 
regular financial commitments. It should have appeared likely to a responsible lender that Mr S had 
missed repayments to the car finance company and council and was now making up his arrears.
Based on my analysis of the account transactions SNC has provided, I think Mr Ss financial 
commitments came to at least £2,805 in August 2016, against an income  of £2,857.  This left him with 
£52 to cover  his minimum repayment. While this is technically affordable I think  there was a very high 
risk that such  a repayment  would be unsustainable,  as any fluctuation in Mr Ss income  or 
expenditure could lead to him needing to borrow again. I dont think it was responsible to increase Mr 
Ss credit limit at this time or to grant further increases, as his situation did not significantly improve.
Given the marked deterioration in Mr Ss financial circumstances  I think  it would have been 
responsible of SNC to also prevent further drawdowns  from this point on.
information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file
Ref: DRN71513506Mr S was unhappy  that records of late payments had remained on his credit file despite being  
promised they would be removed if he made an arrangement to pay back the debt on the account.  He 
was also unhappy  that a marker was placed on his credit file to say the account  was subject to an 
arrangement to pay  as he wasnt told this would happen.
Ive reviewed the history  of communication  between Mr S and SNC about  how his account  would  be 
reported on his credit  file. At times, I think SNCs  communication with Mr S about what it intended  to 
do, could have been better; Mr S wasnt always given clear information  about  how the situation on his 
account would be recorded  on his credit file, and when updates to the file would  occur.
However I think when Mr S challenged this, SNC  responded fairly  by removing the late payment 
records and the arrangement to pay marker  from his credit file. My understanding  is that it is recording 
the account with a neutral  status of Query pending the outcome of this complaint.  This appears to be 
a reasonable course of action to me.
Mr S has also questioned the accuracy of SNC reporting  the account  as a credit card on his credit file. 
SNC has said the account is recorded in this way because it is essentially  a best  fit description  of 
the type of account.  It says it decided to record the account in this way after discussing the matter 
with the credit reference  agencies.
SNC has a duty to report accurate information  about Mr Ss account to the credit reference agencies.  
While the SNC  account is not a credit card, in some  respects it operates in a similar way. It has a 
credit limit and a minimum repayment amount, and it allows credit to be accessed and repaid on 
demand. It is more like a credit card than a current account (which may have an overdraft limit but 
also allows cash to be deposited) or a catalogue/mail order account (which can only be used to buy 
goods). Overall I accept that  unless a more precise description is offered  by credit reference 
agencies in the future  describing the SNC  account as a credit card account is a best fit. I dont 
think SNC is wrong therefore to record the account in this way.
However, SNC shouldnt have given  the second or third credit limit increases,  and its possible Mr S 
would not have fallen  into repayment difficulties  had SNC lent responsibly.  So I think the fairest  way to 
record the account going forward will be as up to date so long as Mr S continues to make 
repayments towards it, and settled once hes repaid the remaining balance (after any adjustments  
have been made as part of the resolution to this complaint).
collecting repayments in an unfair way which caused financial difficulty
I can see how SNCs practice  of taking repayment whenever enough money  was paid into Mr Ss 
account, could have made managing his finances  more difficult. The account  handled a large number  
of transfers between  Mr S and the joint account holders family, so it was not an uncommon  scenario 
for a transfer  to arrive from a family member and for SNC to take those funds  as a repayment. 
SNC has said Mr S could notify it about payments into the account  which were  needed  for a specific 
purpose, and that it would  have  made sure it didnt use these funds  to make repayments. It doesnt 
appear SNC drew  this feature of the account to Mr Ss attention and I dont think  hed have had any 
reason to be aware he could do this. But in any case it appears  the transfers  from the joint account  
holders family  were not earmarked for a specific purpose  they appear instead to have been 
intended to provide general  financial  support  to both account holders. In light of this I dont  think  it was 
wrong of SNC  to claim repayments from this source of funds.
SNC also says it had a safeguard in place called  the SafetyNet level which prevented it from taking 
repayments which would  cause Mr Ss balance to drop below a certain  amount, plus £20. 
Ref: DRN71513507Mr S has said on two or three occasions SNC took payments  which caused his balance to drop below 
the agreed level. Mr S says he set his SafetyNet level at £50, meaning SNC  should not have left him 
with less than £70. SNC,  on the other hand, has said Mr S set his SafetyNet  level to £20, meaning  he 
should never  have been left with less than £40. SNC  has provided some evidence  from its systems  
which appears to support  its view that Mr S had set the level to £20.
Ive looked at Mr Ss bank  statements on and around the dates  hes said SNC took the payments in 
question. On 20 September 2016 SNC took a payment of £61.69, which  appeared on Mr Ss 
statement the next day. Based on my analysis of the bank statements, I think Mr S had an available 
balance of £121.69 at the start of 20 September 2016. A number of debit card transactions were 
made on that day including the SNC  payment.  But if SNC had taken its payment at the beginning of 
the day, when Mr Ss balance was at its highest, this would have left him with £60 available.
At the start of 24 September 2016 Mr S had an available balance of £373.38. SNC took a repayment 
of £323.38 the same day, which would have left Mr S with £50 available, again assuming it was 
requested when his balance was at its highest.
Mr Ss available balance was £2.75 at the beginning  of 30 September  2016. The same  day, he 
received his salary from his employer,  bringing his available funds to £2,727.60. SNC  requested a 
repayment of £495.23 at some point during the day. As it wouldnt have been possible for SNC to take 
repayment with insufficient  funds in the account, I think its reasonable to assume it made  its request 
after Mr S received his salary.
It appears the lowest available balance  on the day was £1,161.21  meaning Mr S would have a 
minimum of £665.98 remaining after SNC applied  for its repayment.
Having considered  the three  scenarios Mr S has drawn  my attention  to  it appears SNC took 
repayments which caused his balance to drop as low as £50. In light of this, and the evidence  put 
forward by both parties to the complaint,  I think its more likely that Mr Ss level was set to £20 (+£20) 
than £50 (+£20). Ultimately I dont think SNC  took repayments  which caused Mr Ss bank balance  to 
fall below his SafetyNet  level. 
access to Mr Ss bank account after he withdrew authority
Im satisfied that SNC stopped accessing Mr Ss bank account after 22 November 2016.  This is the 
last date SNC has transaction data for the account. SNC  has said it didnt  take specific steps to 
cancel its access and says that this was lost. Its previously said its access was revoked  when Mr S 
cancelled the CPA.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr S didnt ask SNC to stop accessing his account prior to 22 
November 2016. He asked  for someone to contact him about  closing his account in his email  of 29 
October 2016, but I dont think SNC would  have understood this as a request to stop accessing his 
bank account. 
In an email to SNC of 31 January 2017 Mr S said my bankwithdrew any right to you having access 
to my account Mr Ss representative has said this was done on 29 October 2016, and this is 
consistent with what SNC has said about it losing  access to Mr Ss bank account. I think  its most 
likely that Mr Ss bank revoked SNCs  access  to the account on Mr Ss request. This appears to have 
happened sometime  after he made the request but Ive not seen evidence  to suggest this was due to 
something SNC did or didnt do.
As I dont think SNC  ought  to have known Mr S wanted  it to cancel its access  prior to him doing  this 
through his bank, and I cant see that it did anything to delay this process once it was underway, I 
cant conclude its done anything  wrong  with respect to this.
Ref: DRN71513508misleading advertising
Ive not been supplied with evidence of promotional  material Mr S saw before he decided to apply for 
his SNC account.  Historic versions of the SNC website dont appear to make claims about  the 
account being  cheaper than an overdraft. And even if SNC had advertised its account  in this way I 
would need to consider  firstly whether it was wrong  to do so, and secondly whether Mr S would  not 
have applied  for the SNC account had he been told anything different.  Theres not enough evidence 
for me to draw this kind of conclusion, so I dont find that SNC has done anything wrong  here.
putting things  right
SNC shouldnt have  given Mr S the second or third increase to his credit limit or allowed further 
drawdowns from the point of the second increase  onwards  so its not right that he should  have to 
pay interest, fees or charges incurred after those increases, or have them affect his credit file in a 
negative way.
So, to put things right I intend to direct  SNC to:
Remove any interest, fees and charges  from Mr Ss account  which relate to any drawdowns 
made from the point of his second credit limit increase onwards,  and ensure no further 
interest is charged on the account.
Allow Mr S to repay the remaining balance  in line with the most recent arrangement of £40 
per month.
Record Mr Ss account  as up to date if he maintains  his repayment arrangement.  The 
account should still be considered up to date if Mr S and SNC later agree  monthly 
repayments of below £40, so long as these are enough  to cover  the contractual minimum 
repayments.
Record Mr Ss account  as settled  once  it has been  repaid.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Mr Ss case  in part and direct Indigo Michael 
Limited to take the actions  outlined in the putting things right section of this decision.
I now invite  Mr S and Indigo Michael Limited to put forward  any new arguments or evidence  they 
would like me to consider  before I finalise my decision. They should make sure any further 
submissions reach me by 28 December 2018 I will then review the case again.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7151350