K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Starling  Bank Limited (Starling)  prevented him from purchasing 
cryptocurrency.
background
Mr L brought his compliant to us as he was unhappy  with the response from Starling. He told 
us the complaint related  to the transfer of funds from his account to a third party. He said 
hed tried to make a payment to a company associated  with cryptocurrency but the transfer 
was blocked. Mr L thought this should not be possible unless there was a legal  requirement  
or government restriction. He said this was a matter of principle for him and didnt just relate 
to cryptocurrency but the wider argument  of banks not deciding what customers  can and 
cannot spend their money on or transfer available funds to.
Starling didnt uphold  his complaint. They told Mr L in their Final  Response Letter (FRL) 
their current  policy in relation to cryptocurrency  was that their international currency  provider 
didnt support the purchase of cryptocurrencies.  Also their accounts didnt support 
cryptocurrency trading  and that some  merchants may have access blocked for other 
reasons. Starling said with regards to the wider  issue raised  by Mr L  within the banking  
industry as a whole  - they werent  in a position  to comment on other banks policies and 
procedures.
Our investigator thought Starling had acted  in line with the terms and conditions on Mr Ls 
account. And although she appreciated Mr L felt Starlings system  shouldnt flag and block  
transfers to companies  associated with cryptocurrencies its wasnt for this service  to tell 
banks what their processes should be. The investigator told Mr L his concerns  about banks 
in general being able to tell customers what they can and cant spend their money  on were 
something for the industry  regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to look into. 
She also didnt think  it unreasonable for Starling  not to be able to comment  on this issue  too. 
So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr L didnt agree. He felt, if the investigator  based her judgement on whether Starling had 
acted unfairly and used their terms to support that, then the terms shed indicated  were very 
loose ones and potentially unfair  contract  terms which he said he could  pursue  separately 
with the FCA. Mr L didnt think Starling could refuse to act on an instruction without reason 
and the second term referred  to by the investigator  only indicated a temporary  measure in 
holding a payment  to prevent fraudulent activity.
In response to the second view issued by the investigator Mr L told us he would accept  that 
if Starlings system flagged a transaction as a potential security  risk they could block  it 
pending confirmation that the customer had placed the instruction intentionally. But he 
thought - once hed confirmed he was aware  of it - Starling had no grounds to hold the 
payment. He thought the bank was in no position to deem what is risky and were not 
responsible for the level of risk in his payments. Mr L thought it was unfair for Starling to 
decide who he could  and couldnt  send his available funds to and any contract  term which 
said otherwise was, in his opinion, an unfair  contract term.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This service is an informal dispute  
Ref: DRN71242822resolution one  not the regulator for the financial industry. And its not for us to comment on 
Mr Ls industrywide concerns. So whilst I appreciate Mr L thinks its wrong that banks  in 
general can decide what customers can and cant spend their available funds on, thats  a 
matter for the FCA.
Starling set out their current policy on cryptocurrency in the FRL to Mr L and told him some  
merchants may have access blocked for other reasons. Later,  during the investigation 
Starling told us that in order to protect  customers from fraud they block  payments deemed to 
be high risk. Starling said the payee  Mr L attempted to add to his account in January and 
May 2019 was a blocked one which wasnt authorised by them. And - as Mr L wasnt able to 
add the payee - he couldnt proceed  with the payment. 
I know Mr L feels Starling should have blocked  the transaction  temporarily,  pending his 
confirmation that the instruction was intentional and  once done - they had no grounds  to 
withhold the payment.  But it seems  to me Starlings  concerns here go beyond  someone 
impersonating Mr L or having  fraudulent  access to his account.
So whilst I understand Mr Ls frustrations Starling told him in the FRL some  merchants may 
have access blocked for other reasons. During  our investigation they expanded on this and 
told us the reason this payee  was blocked was due to them  seeing higher  instances of fraud 
from payments relating  to this type of payee. That policy  would be the same  for all 
customers. And as the investigators explained,  generally, its not for this service to tell banks 
what their policy processes should  be.
So overall I cant say Starling have treated Mr L unfairly or acted inappropriately towards  him 
 although they could  perhaps have explained  in more detail  as they later did to this 
service  why this particular payee  was blocked.  But as theyve now done this Im not going 
to ask them to take any further  action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7124282