K821x#15complaint
Miss D says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Uncle Buck  provided  to Miss D between January 
and February 2014. Miss Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment*
1 08/01/2014 31/01/2014 1 £200.00 £270.00
2 15/02/2014 28/02/2014 1 £200.00 £270.00
3 28/02/2014 18/09/2015 1 £200.00 £270.00
*rounded up to nearest GBP
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Ds complaint and thought loan 3 shouldnt  have been 
given. Uncle  Buck disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could consider a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN79609332I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) guidance defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Our adjudicator thought Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2. 
Miss D didnt respond to these findings.  So, I am assuming that Miss D agrees with the 
adjudicators opinion and I wont be making  any findings on these loans. 
Uncle Buck  says that before it lent any of the loans, it asked Miss D about her monthly  
income and normal  living costs. It also says it searched Miss Ds credit file and has provided 
the results of its search.  Loan  3 was Miss Ds third loan in two months, so I think  Uncle Buck 
shouldve been  looking to build a clearer picture  than this about Miss Ds finances before 
lending her this loan. 
Had Uncle Buck carried  out proportionate checks before lending loan 3, its likely to have 
found that Miss D was borrowing  from other  short-term lenders.  This  was increasing her 
monthly outgoings by an extra £860 a month. Although her essential outgoings were  
relatively low, Miss Ds monthly  income  was around £1200, so I dont think  she was able to 
sustainably afford loan 3 and Uncle Buck shouldnt have lent it to her. I note that Miss D was 
only able to repay back this loan because  she entered a debt management plan after it was 
taken out. 
As such Im also upholding the complaint  about loan 3 and Uncle Buck  should  put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Miss D paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative  information about  loan 3 from Miss Ds credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck  to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck must give Miss D a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN79609333my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ds complaint. Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7960933