K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Canada Life Limited refused his critical illness claim by unfairly applying 
a pre-existing condition  exclusion.  
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr H wants his claim to be paid in full, along  with a payment for the 
distress he has been caused.  
background
I issued my provisional findings to the parties on 16 May 2019. A copy  is attached and 
should be read in conjunction with this final decision. 
In that decision,  I didnt  accept the submissions  of either party  as a fair and reasonable 
outcome to the complaint.  I didnt agree with Mr Hs view that I ought to disregard the 
recurrence of his second benign brain tumour (BBT)  as he felt it could not conclusively be 
said it occurred in the same location as the first. I believed the medical evidence showed  it 
was most likely to be a recurrence. 
I also didnt accept Canada Lifes view that the first BBT would have led to Mr H having had 
a first claim, if his cover had been on risk, such that it could rely on pre-existing condition  
exclusion now. The evidence that I had seen did not support that.  
I concluded Canada  Life ought to have  paid Mr Hs 2018 claim since I did not accept his first 
diagnosis of BBT in 2010 was an insured illness under the policy. That first diagnosis did not 
have supportive evidence of permanent neurological deficit, as defined  in the policy  terms. It 
therefore did not amount to an insured illness such that the pre-existing condition  exclusion 
would be triggered.  That meant it was not relevant that the second BBT was a likely 
recurrence of the first. 
Canada Life agreed  that (notwithstanding its arguments about  exclusions)  the second claim 
of BBT would have  been an insured event. 
Mr H said he accepted  the decision in full and had nothing to add. He did mention that his 
health has taken  a turn for the worse and noted he would welcome a prompt  final decision 
on his complaint. 
Canada Life didnt accept  my provisional findings. It did agree with my findings regarding the 
second tumour being a recurrence of the first. But it disagreed that the first BBT would not 
have met the policy terms  it maintained  that it would, and therefore the second BBT was 
excluded under the pre-existing  conditions  exclusion.  
In summary,  it said:
the wording it uses in the policy  for BBT matches that of the suggested  wording 
proposed by the Association of British  Insurers best practice;
the further policy wording definition of permanent neurological deficit (PND) with 
persisting clinical  symptoms (PCS ) uses the word  includes  in relation to the 
dysfunction of the nervous system;
it follows that the wording is providing a list of common  examples of dysfunction  in 
order to illustrate the sorts of dysfunction that is / is not covered rather  than an 
exhaustive list;
Ref: DRN70400082Canada Life would  not look to decline a claim just because  a specific persistent  
neurological symptom that an individual is experiencing is not featured  on this list 
(provided it is not one of the things  specifically excluded);
it also believes it is fair to place emphasis on the word  expected  within the PND 
definition;
as at the letter of 30 June 2011 it would have been reasonable to assume that some 
degree of neurological dysfunction  would be expected to exist throughout Mr Hs life;
it would  have paid a hypothetical claim at that time as to make a consumer wait 
longer to determine if his or her deficit would continue throughout life would be 
unreasonable;
though hearing  loss is not presented on the PCS list, it must amount to PND as to 
disregard it would be overly restrictive  when the list is not exhaustive;
hearing loss and tinnitus are common features  of acoustic neuromas  and Mr Hs 
hearing loss did not subside;
the BBT model  definition that Canada  Life uses does not specify  any severity 
threshold that has to be met. This means  only the slightest complaint of neurological 
dysfunction would satisfy the definition;
craniotomy is highly  likely to cause  damage  resulting in PND with PCS of some  
degree however  minor,  and for this reason Canada Life generally takes the view that 
where such an invasive  surgical  procedure has taken place claims are satisfied 
against the BBT definition requiring PND  with PCS;
in Dr Ns letter of 2017  it became clear that Mr H had permanent peripheral 
weakness caused by right-sided acoustic neuroma surgery;
it is therefore reasonable to regard the BBT definition as being met in respect of the 
original tumour. It follows that the insured illness (of BBT) existed (meaning first 
diagnosed, treated  or known to the insured person)  prior to the date of Mr Hs 
inclusion in the policy;
it continues to be firmly of the view that the pre-existing  condition exclusion correctly  
applies in this case, which is in line with the intention  of the policy  wording;
it disagrees that the £500 for trouble and upset has been  fairly awarded as it feels  it 
has been consistently clear that the first tumour of 2010  would have met the BBT 
definition. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at all of the additional  points Canada Life has made, my provisional  findings 
remain unchanged. I do not intend  to issue a reply  to each bullet point above, but I will make 
further key findings in relation to the new submissions around  PND and the award for upset 
caused to Mr H.
I note neither party has made any comments disputing my conclusions as to the likely 
recurrence of a BBT. The outstanding point is that (in my opinion)  the 2010  BBT was not a 
claimable event under Canada  Lifes  policy terms.  
Though I didnt paste  the full PND definition in its entirety in my provisional findings,  I believe 
it would  help to do so here. As previously noted, BBT is set out as:
Benign  brain tumour
- resulting  in permanent  symptoms
Ref: DRN70400083A non-malignant tumour  or cyst originating from the brain, cranial nerves  or 
meninges within the skull, resulting in permanent neurological  deficit with persisting 
clinical symptoms.
   
PND is further set out in the policy conditions as:
Dysfunction  in the nervous system that is present  on clinical  examination and 
expected to last throughout  the insured persons or childs life.
Dysfunction of the nervous system includes:
numbness,
hyperaesthesia (increased sensitivity),
paralysis,
localised weakness,
dysarthria (difficulty  with speech),
aphasia (inability  to speak),
dysphagia (difficulty  in swallowing),
visual impairment,
difficulty in walking,
lack of coordination,
tremor,
seizures,
dementia,
delirium, and
coma.
The following  are not covered:
an abnormality seen on brain  or other scans without definite related clinical  
symptoms,
neurological signs occurring without symptomatic abnormality, e.g. brisk 
reflexes without other symptoms,
symptoms of psychological or psychiatric  origin.
I accept that Canada Life says it takes  a wide approach to the word  includes and if a 
consumer displayed another symptom  of dysfunction of the nervous system (in this case, 
hearing), it would consider it against  the policy  wording above. I also appreciate it has a 
philosophy of considering  a claimant who has undergone craniotomy might likely be left with 
PND. Nonetheless, all claims will be assessed  by looking at the claimants circumstances, 
the medical evidence and the wording that needs  to be satisfied in order to admit  a claim. 
In Mr Hs case, Canada  Life contends  that he was displaying  PND  as at May 2011  for the 
listed symptoms of visual impairment, lack of co-ordination and/or difficulty in walking  
manifesting themselves  primarily  as blurred vision, nausea, balance issues, facial  weakness 
and headaches.
As I said in my previous findings, I place the greatest weight on what was said to Mr H by his 
treating consultant Dr R in May 2011.  That correspondence makes  clear that Dr R felt it 
highly likely  Mr Hs deficit would improve. 
Ref: DRN70400084I disagree with Canada Lifes further  submission  that it would have met a claim as at May 
2011. Though it may be the case that it could take months or years for a policyholder  to 
sufficiently establish  if he or she has permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical  
symptoms, that can only be ascertained by obtaining relevant evidence  from treating medical 
specialists. No two cases will be the same.  Unfortunately, with conditions which leave a 
person with lifelong clinical detriments, it may take time to determine  that these symptoms  
are both persisting  and permanent. 
Neither do I accept the view that the slightest complaint of neurological  dysfunction would 
satisfy the definition  because though that may be the case, the requirement in the policy  
conditions goes further than the mere existence  of a nervous system dysfunction; it requires 
that the specified symptom must  be both permanent and persisting. 
I believe if Mr H had been a member of the scheme  at that relevant time and Canada Life 
had been presented with a claim, it would not have  paid it based on the hopeful view of Dr N 
 that letter  does not paint  a picture of expecting Mr H to be left with any type of ongoing 
problems. 
Dr N was best placed as Mr Hs treating  consultant to provide his view on Mr Hs outlook. 
And he did not confirm  any type of symptom that he expected to persist.  Contrastingly, he 
suggested he was very optimistic that Mr Hs post-surgical issues  would resolve  and they 
did. 
Similarly, even  giving latitude to the policy wording and including  hearing loss as a deficit  
(which I appreciate is a nervous system dysfunction), I dont accept that the medical records  
show Mr H was left with a permanent hearing  dysfunction either. They  are in fact, conflicting. 
Mr H is shown in 2011 as having tried a hearing  aid. But he was also assessed by his 
surgeon, Professor R, on 17 August 2010.  He recorded that Mr H had made an excellent  
recovery from his right acoustic neuroma  operationtodays audiogram confirmed that his 
hearing is at pre-operative  levels.  
As I stated in my provisional findings,  an unrelated  consultant  neurosurgeon  also recorded  
how Mr Hs issues  post-operatively from removal of the acoustic neuroma had fully resolved.  
I am not of the view that Canada Life would  have paid any hypothetical claim for BBT to Mr 
H in 2011, given the medical evidence did not go far enough to show that he had any 
symptom, attributable to the BBT that was expected to last throughout his life. In fact, Mr H 
went without any further medical attention in relation to his surgery  until 2017   at which time 
he developed  fresh symptoms.  
It follows that I remain of the view that the pre-existing  conditions exclusion does not apply  
here since Mr Hs medical circumstances did not meet a valid claim at any time before he 
made his claim of 2018.  
Canada Life accepts that (but for the other arguments around exclusions) Mr Hs current  
circumstances meet the insured illness definition  of BBT. In its letter of 15 June  2018,  it says 
it can confirm the medical information  and reports that Canada Life has received supports 
that the insured definition of Benign  Brain Tumour has been met (but it is the application  of 
this exclusion that resulted  in your claim being denied).
Ref: DRN70400085As I consider the exclusion does not apply for the reasons given  in my provisional and final 
findings, the claim is valid and should  be paid to Mr H. 
Finally, I have considered  the point Canada Life has made about the £500 I provisionally 
suggested it ought to pay to Mr H. I believe this was clear in my earlier findings. To reiterate, 
Mr H also clearly set out in the appeal letter how he felt he did not have any permanent  
neurological deficit from the first BBT diagnosis. 
Canada Life could have  addressed that point in its letter of 15 June 2018, given it conflicted 
from the conclusions  it had drawn and impacted directly on the application of the exclusion. 
However, it didnt do so. It merely said the first BBT was an insured event, and failed  to 
explore why. Canada Life was of course able to refuse a claim where it had cause to believe 
it could not pay it, but it would  have  been better customer service to explain to Mr H why it 
felt he had PND. 
I remain of the view that Canada Life ought  to pay Mr H £500 for the upset he has been  
caused, as Mr H has said how this caused  him confusion at a time where he is very poorly 
due to his second diagnosis. 
putting things right
I direct  that the £150,000 claim be paid in full, as at 15 June 2018  the date from which 
Canada Life Limited  confirmed Mr Hs circumstances met the insured illness in the policy  
terms. 
Interest should  be added  to the claim payment. This should be at a gross annual  rate of 8% 
simple, less tax (if properly deductible), from the date the claim shouldve been paid to the 
date of settlement.   
If Canada Life considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest,  it must  
make the appropriate  payment to HM Revenue and Customs and send tax deduction 
certificates to Mr H along with the compensation payment. If eligible, Mr H could thereafter 
reclaim any overpaid tax from HM Revenue and Customs.
Mr H has explained how he feels Canada Life has not been clear on the grounds of refusal 
for his claim. Canada  Life ought to have  been  clear about its reasons for concluding Mr H (in 
its view) was showing  PND with PCS in 2011. As it did not do so, I accept this has caused 
Mr H additional upset  at an already  difficult time. I therefore consider Canada  Life ought to 
pay Mr H £500 for this.
recommendation
The maximum sum Im able to award  in accordance with the rules of this service is 
£150,000. This isnt inclusive of interest.  On that basis, my determination covers the sum 
assured owing to Mr H in accordance with their policy terms. However, should Canada  Life 
calculate any sum due as exceeding £150,000, I also recommend that it ought  to pay any 
balance over and above this sum to him.   
A recommendation is not part of my determination  or award.  Canada  Life doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. If Mr H accepts the decision, its unlikely that he can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. In that scenario, he could seek  independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision. However, as I have set out above,  I 
Ref: DRN70400086think that is unlikely  given no premium refund appears to be due, and the sum assured is at 
the exact level of the limit on any award  I can make for complaints brought  to us before 1 
April 2019.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Canada  Life Limited  must pay the claim and the award  for distress  to 
Mr H, as set out above. 
I do not make any other award or direction.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN70400087copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Canada Life Limited refused his critical illness  claim by unfairly applying a pre-
existing condition exclusion.  
To resolve his complaint, Mr H wants his claim to be paid in full, along  with a payment for the distress 
he has been  caused.  
background
Mr H became a member  of his employers  group critical illness scheme on 4 August 2014.  Mr H 
varied his benefit levels every April upon renewal of his membership  in the group  scheme. As of 1 
April 2018, Mr Hs cover  provides £150,000 in the event of a valid critical illness claim.  
In March 2018, he made a claim to Canada Life, under the policy  definition of Benign Brain Tumour 
(BBT). Mr H was sadly diagnosed with an acoustic  neuroma in January 2018. 
Canada Life sought information from Mr Hs GP and treating specialist. After reviewing the medical 
evidence, Canada Life refused the claim. It confirmed the decision to both Mr H and his employer in 
May 2018. 
It said Mr H had been diagnosed previously  with an acoustic neuroma in 2010.  It noted how his 
employers policy had a pre-existing condition exclusion  which says that if a member of the scheme  
has suffered  a repeat of an insured illness  which occurred before he or she joined the scheme, then 
no benefit can be payable for any claim in respect of a further  occurrence of the same insured illness. 
On that basis,  it could  not pay the claim  for the second instance of a BBT (as specified  within the 
policy conditions).  
Mr H appealed the decision. He said he didnt  have an insured illness at the time of joining  the 
scheme in 2014. His previous instance of a BBT had been treated and resolved. Also, Mr H said the 
diagnosis of 2018 was not a recurrence of the same condition as it had a markedly  different 
presentation and had recurred in a different location. He asserted that in fact this was a new tumour, 
with different symptoms.  
Canada Life disagreed. It believed the fact he had suffered from a BBT in 2010 was relevant  this 
was an insured condition under the policy terms, and one which had existed  prior to him joining the 
scheme in 2014. So, when Mr H was diagnosed  with a second  BBT (which was also an insured 
condition) in 2018, the exclusion then applied.  It believed the latter was a recurrence of the first 
tumour, but that wasnt why the claim was refused. Canada Life said that whether the second tumour  
derives from the first or is a totally  new and separate tumour is not relevant  in the operation of the 
exclusion clause. The same insured event had occurred  twice  and the exclusion applied.  
Mr H then brought a complaint to our service. He explained how his first tumour  had been fully 
excised in 2010, and no follow up appointments happened after 2011. He says the recent BBT was in 
fact confirmed by his consultant to be unrelated to the first one. Despite  this, Canada  Life and his 
employer appear to be blaming  each other.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint.  She did not think it should  succeed. She noted how 
Mr Hs treating consultant said in April 2018 that the new BBT was a recurrence of the previous 
tumour. And, in his report to Canada Life, Mr Hs GP said Mr H suffered from a related condition in 
2010.  
She said she thought Mr Hs current diagnosis was a repeat of the same insured illness which he had 
before he was included in the policy.  And so she didnt  think  that Canada Life have done anything 
wrong in declining  the claim.
Ref: DRN70400088Mr H disagreed. He wanted an ombudsman to listen to his call recording with our investigator to 
ensure all of the points  he has made are reviewed.  He said, in summary:
he is unhappy  that Canada Lifes policy terms are inconsistent  the terms have been 
changed across the time he has been  a member  of the scheme;
similarly, Canada Life has changed the grounds of refusal of the claim when Mr H appealed;
the policy  should have  been medically underwritten  particularly when it involves  large sums of 
money. Thats because the terms he saw on his employers intranet said any cover over 
£100,000 would be personally underwritten but that didnt happen;
the policy  wording he saw in 2014 also said that pre-existing  conditions would only be 
excluded for two years   not altogether;
he believes the claim  should be paid in full based  on the terms that he saw on his employers  
intranet;
as Mr H feels there is an element of doubt around the recurrence of his tumour, that doubt  
ought to be read in his favour;
even  though the GP and a consultant have said the new BBT is a recurrence, a differing 
surgeon disagrees with that;
recurrence  doesnt  mean  the same  tumour, it could be that a differing tumour has been 
located in the same  place.
In March 2019, Mr H also supplied further evidence  from the hospital treating him in 2010.  This 
consultant, Ms S, said she couldnt be clear because Mr H hadnt been having  scans between 2010 
and 2017. Mr H says it was unfair to use the opinion of one consultant to refuse his claim  when the 
surgeons who removed the first tumour have confirmed  that they had removed all traces of tumour  
tissue. And the later consultant could  not say either way. 
Mr H again submitted  that given  the doubt around his second diagnosis, the balance of favour ought  
to mean that a claim is payable now. Mr H feels that Canada Life has consistently been looking for 
reasons to avoid paying his claim.  
Our investigator said that the fresh evidence  didnt  alter her view. The complaint was therefore 
passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see Mr H has made detailed submissions in support  of the complaint and Ive read and 
considered these carefully. That includes  listening to the telephone  call held between  Mr H and our 
investigator. But I wont go on to address every point thats been  raised in my findings below. Ive 
instead concentrated on what  I think are the central issues in this complaint. 
Having done so, I have  reached a different outcome to our investigator.  Im currently of the view that 
Canada Life ought to pay the claim value to Mr H. Ill explain why.   
As an aside, I can see Mr H asked about speaking  with an ombudsman and hearings but declined to 
pursue this further.  
I realise Mr H is unhappy about the wording of the policy, specifically what he was told at the time he 
joined the scheme.  Ive seen the extracts he has supplied  from his company intranet.  I can see how 
Mr H feels  these are misleading, or that a two-year limit to the exclusion may apply. This is because 
the explanation of the policy benefits were summarised  on the policy  selection information  with both 
the pre-existing and related condition exclusions being set out in one paragraph that refers  to two-
year limits. Mr Hs employer has looked into that matter and stated that the relevant  consideration is in 
fact the policy wording,  not what its website says. 
Ref: DRN70400089For clarity, the pre-existing  conditions exclusion is not time-limited to two years  that applies to the 
different exclusion for related conditions. 
I appreciate the point  Mr H makes is that whether he was excluded from making a claim because  he 
had previously suffered from a BBT was an important consideration for him. 
Nonetheless, if Mr H remains unhappy about the information given to him when he joined the scheme, 
that can form the subject of a differing complaint to Canada Life. But, its important to note that he is 
not the policyholder for this cover  his employer is. Mr H is a member  of the scheme. And that 
scheme was subject to annual  revisions. So it is the most recent policy wording  that applies in the 
relevant renewal year that should be used when  assessing Mr Hs claim. 
The relevant policy wording  is set out below:   
Benign brain tumour
- resulting in permanent  symptoms
Definition
A non-malignant tumour or cyst originating  from the brain, cranial  nerves or meninges within  
the skull, resulting in permanent neurological  deficit  with persisting clinical symptoms 
The wording also goes on to state  that to any claim, two exclusions apply, that being pre-existing 
conditions exclusion and the related condition  exclusion. This is contained  in section 4, relating to 
what is not covered:
4.1.1 Pre-existing conditions
No benefit will be payable for an insured  Illness (or a repeat of the same Insured Illness)  
which existed prior to the date of inclusion
of the Insured person  or child in this Policy, or
in a previous  group  critical illness policy  arranged by you or any other employer in 
connection with the members employment, or
of the illness in the Policy, if later.
The glossary  of terms in the policy  sets out existed  as:
an Insured Illness or related  condition is said to have existed if it was
first diagnosed, or
related, or
known to the Insured  person or child prior to the date of inclusion  (as detailed  in 
Section 4 - What is not covered)  or the date of any increase in benefit. 
Mr H has cover under  his scheme which includes  optional  insured illnesses.  One of those is for BBT. 
This is set out as:
Benign  brain tumour
- resulting in permanent  symptoms
A non-malignant tumour or cyst originating  from the brain, cranial  nerves or meninges within  
the skull, resulting in permanent neurological  deficit  with persisting clinical symptoms.
The policy wording lists exclusions for certain types of tumour, which doesnt apply to Mr H. It also 
sets out how the pre-existing  conditions and related conditions exclusions apply to any claim. 
Ref: DRN704000810I realise Mr H asserts that he didnt  have a BBT at the time he joined  the scheme. That isnt in 
dispute. Hed had the first tumour excised  several years before, and had no recurrent  symptoms  at 
that time. Canada Life contends that but for the pre-existing condition exclusion,  a claim  would have 
been payable. What it says is that Mr Hs first tumour met the BBT definition set out above. And that 
his second tumour was likely  a recurrence of the first. Ive considered  both those points below  
looking at the latter point first.  
was the second  tumour a repeat  or recurrence of the first?   
Mr Hs treating ENT consultant, Dr N, provided  a letter  in support of his claim dated 30 April 2018. In 
that letter  he confirmed how Mr H had presented to him with right-sided tinnitus and deafness on the 
first occasion  leading  up to his surgery in 2010. He went on to note that:
he presented to me again  recently  with right-sided tinnitus on the 20th November 2017, the 
tinnitus had been present for 6 to 12 months, there was a numbness  on the right side of his 
face over 18 months. He had dizziness, which  was more of a feeling  of imbalance rather than 
rotary vertigo. On examination, there was no conductive deafness. I organised balance 
testing for him which reveals that there is right sided peripheral weakness  consistent  with 
right-sided acoustic neuroma surgery.
Vestibular rehabilitation was organised for him to improve  his sensation  of balance. An MRI 
scan of his internal  auditory  meatus  was also organised which was done on the 4th January 
2018. This revealed that in the right internal auditory meatus there is enhancing tissue 
measuring 3.3mm x 6.3mm X 4.6mm in size [it] is likely to be a recurrence of the acoustic 
neuroma.
This gentleman therefore  does have some permanent numbness  on the right side of his face 
which is most likely to have been the result of the recurrence  of the acoustic neuroma 
affecting the trigeminal nerve branches. He also has permanent damage to the vestibular 
system on the right side from the acoustic neuroma surgery and the recurrence of the tumour 
itself, which is causing  him difficulty with his balance. This can be improved  to some degree 
with vestibular rehabilitation but the damage is going  to be permanent.
Dr N had previously confirmed  the same assessment of a recurrence or residual tumour in a letter of 
29 January 2018 when he referred Mr H to a consultant  otoneurologist. 
I realise Mr H says there is some ambiguity about whether the 2018 diagnosis is a repeat of the BBT 
diagnosis of 2010. He has pointed to a letter from a consultant surgeon from the skull base team of 23 
February 2018 which says:
He was keen to know whether this was residual or recurrent  disease. We have discussed 
this at length  in clinic today  and have explained that we cannot describe this as either  residual  
or recurrent  disease, as it is the first scan that he has had since his surgery nearly eight years 
ago. We have  explained  that it is a small area of enhancement and does not represent a 
lesion which would explain his recurrent facial sensation symptoms  or his recent spell of 
dizziness.
However, a differing consultant surgeon from the same  skull base team  said on 16 February  2018 
that:
Mr N has referred you back to the Skull  Base service  in [city]. I understand that you had 
surgery under Professor R some  years  ago. The most up to date MRI scan  shows that you 
have a very small residual of your right sided  vestibular schwannoma within the inner ear 
canal. This is only a few millimetres  in size and isnt in no way of any threat  to you. It does not 
require any treatment.  We will organise  to see you in one of our Skull  Base clinics at [city] to 
discuss your ongoing problems with your balance. We look forward to meeting  you.
Ref: DRN704000811Mr H contends that where there is ambiguity, we ought to find in his favour. I dont agree that is the 
case. Ive looked at all of the evidence on balance. Having done so, I dont agree that one conflicting 
statement from the skull base team is sufficient to show Mr Hs current  circumstances are not a 
recurrence or repeat of his 2010 BBT. I think they are  and Dr N is clear about that. He is Mr Hs 
treating consultant and best placed to conclude the likely  cause of his symptoms  now. 
I say that because Mr H wrote to Dr N again  in late 2018 asking:
As you know  I have seen you several  times in relation to the above. You first diagnosed  my 
original tumour back in 2010  which was then surgically removed by Professor R. I then came 
to see [you]  at the end of last year,  as symptoms of the tumour had returned. After an MRI 
scan, you confirmed there was another tumour in a slightly different position which accounted 
for the return of my symptoms.
I have recently seen  correspondence from you to Canada  Life, in which you suggest  this 
could be the original  tumour that may have returned. As you know,  Professor R was adamant 
that he had removed all the tumour and that it would not return.
Please can you confirm  if you believe  there is a possibility this is could be a new tumour, or 
are you certain it is the return of the original tumour.
Dr N replied in February 2019, noting:
I have reviewed the records available to me. Your original  surgery was done on the 5th July 
2010 and Professor R's letter indicates he removed  the tumour  completely.  This is also 
confirmed by the operation  notes written  by Dr K, Consultant  Neurosurgeon who did the 
operation with him. I am not aware of any scans being done in the interim period [until] I saw 
you again on 20.11.17 and arranged  a scan which showed  tumour  within the right internal 
auditory meatus. The location of this tumour is very similar to the original site so this is 
unlikely to be a new tumour and the chances are that this was either  left in the original 
operation or a small microscopic amount left behind which has increased in size.
It is possible that the skull base surgical team  I sent you to in [city] might have access  to more 
information or any scans you might have had between your operation in 2010 and [until] I saw 
you again in 2017. In that case they might be able to give you a more  precise response. 
Unfortunately, Mr H was not subjected  to any further scans by the skull base team. 
 
Dr N has given a clear  diagnosis; his clinical view is that the tumour  has recurred. Further, Mr H 
accepts the symptoms  of his tumour had returned, that being right-sided tinnitus. He also now has 
issues with balance. That differs from Mr Hs submission to this service  in that he believes the new 
tumour has presented differently from the first. Conversely, Mr N indicates  how this BBT is unlikely to 
be a new tumour and I agree with that evidence. I believe  that Mr Hs recent diagnosis  of BBT is a 
repeat of the same BBT excised  in 2010.
So, it falls to determine whether Mr Hs first BBT would have met the policy terms such that Canada  
Life can conclude  Mr H has a repeat of the same insured illness. 
did the first tumour satisfy  the BBT definition under Mr Hs policy wording?
Mr H underwent a craniotomy and excision of his acoustic neuroma in July 2010.  Whether Canada 
Life was reasonable to treat that tumour as a BBT meeting the above definition was therefore  
dependent on Mr H having permanent neurological deficit,  causing  persisting symptoms.  
The glossary  of terms in Mr Hs policy gives a definition of permanent  neurological deficit, with 
persisting clinical symptoms  as: dysfunction  in the nervous system that is present on clinical  
examination and expected to last throughout the Insured persons or childs  life.
Ref: DRN704000812Numbness and balance difficulties (as a lack of co-ordination and/or difficulty  in walking) are both 
listed types of dysfunction of the nervous system within  Mr Hs policy wording. Hearing loss is not 
included. 
In its refusal of the claim, Canada Life says 
I note from the medical evidence that has been received that you were diagnosed  with a right 
sided acoustic  neuroma  in 2010 for which  you underwent  a craniotomy and excision on 5th 
July 2010. On 30th June 2011 (nearly  12 months after the procedure) you reported to Dr R, 
Consultant Neurologist that you were still experiencing  fluctuating  headaches sometimes 
associated with blurred vision and nausea. This would have  been sufficient information for us 
to be satisfied  that the full definition of Benign Brain Tumour resulting in permanent symptoms 
was met if a claim had been  placed  with us at that time.  
Mr H disputes that. In his appeal letter, he explained how:
Following treatment, the tumour  was totally excised and I made  a good recovery, though was 
left with some fluctuating headaches, blurred vision and nausea, which  were still present in 
June 2011, but gradually resolved over the next six months and were in no way permanent 
and I am unsure as to how you have  drawn this conclusion from the medical evidence that 
you have. 
Canada Lifes appeal outcome didnt  consider again whether Mr Hs 2010 diagnosis amounted to an 
insured illness or not. That was because it instead focused on Mr Hs two specified grounds of 
appeal, which were  regarding him not having an insured illness in 2014, and the 2018 diagnosis being 
unrelated. 
I have seen the letter  from Dr R, and it says:
Thank you for referring [Mr H] with troublesome  headaches who required removal of a right 
acoustic neuroma, and a CSF collection  thereafter  in whom recent intracranial pressure  
monitoring in the context of fluctuating post-operative neck and headache,  revealed normal 
pressures.
Over the last 6 months the patient has bad fluctuating, throbbing,  right occipital  and or right 
frontal headaches sometimes associated with blurring of vision and nausea.
I think his current headaches would  do well for a post-operative variant of migraine, 
presumably related to stimulation of the meninges  around the trigeminovascular  structures, 
around the skull base  and upper cervical cord (trigeminovascular  hypothesis  of migraine, 
Professor G).
I would be very optimistic  the patients headaches will gradually improve and as a migraine 
preventative agent, I would  be grateful if his GP would  consider  prescribing Pregabolin 50 
mgs twice  a day.
I have advised the patient to try to gradually reduce  his analgesic consumption thereafter. I 
have offered to review the patient again in the future if his problems dont settle. He left 
reassured, thank you for your referral.
Mr H did not return to Dr R again  until his fresh issues of 2017. And, as noted earlier,  nor did he return 
to the skull base team for scans or any other monitoring.  
The medical  evidence supports that Mr H did not have any ongoing deficit  beyond  2011.  I believe 
these did resolve as he has said.  Mr H did have  further  health issues in the intervening  years,  but 
these were predominantly relating to his cervical spine, knees and blood  pressure. There is a letter 
Ref: DRN704000813dated 8 July 2013 on his medical records from a consultant neurosurgeon who referred  Mr H to an 
orthopaedic surgeon for surgical decompression relating  to his cervical discs. In that letter, he 
summarised Mr Hs recent  health history  and noted  how:
Several years  ago he was under the care of my colleagues  Mr K and Professor R for an 
acoustic neuroma. Post-operatively he had a brief period of facial weakness but it resolved 
fully.
Having looked at the evidence available from 2011 and thereafter, I agree with Mr H that the 
symptoms he experienced both before  and after his tumour had resolved,  most likely  by the end of 
2011. It follows that I do not accept Canada Lifes assessment of Mr Hs health in 2011 such that it 
could reasonably conclude the BBT definition of permanent neurological  deficit, with persisting clinical  
symptoms had been met. Thats because there is no objective  evidence suggesting that any of Mr Hs 
post-operative issues  were  expected  to last throughout his life; conversely,  Mr Hs treating consultant 
confirmed the strong likelihood  that the headaches and associated symptoms would  resolve. 
putting things  right
I believe Canada Life ought  to have considered Mr Hs 2018 claim since I do not accept  his diagnosis  
of BBT in 2010 was an insured illness  under  the policy  terms. That first diagnosis  did not have 
supportive evidence of permanent neurological deficit, as defined in the policy  terms.  It therefore did 
not amount to an insured  illness such that the pre-existing  condition  exclusion would be triggered.   
Given what Mr N is saying  now, Mr H is displaying symptoms  that accord  with the definition of 
permanent neurological  deficit. But this diagnosis  came  in 2018. There is no clear evidence that Mr H 
had any persisting clinical  symptoms which  were not expected to resolve in the near future  in 2011. 
Having considered  the claim, Canada  Life also accepts that (but for the other arguments around 
exclusions) Mr Hs current circumstances meet  the insured  illness definition of BBT. 
In its letter of 15 June 2018, it says it can confirm the medical information  and reports that Canada  
Life has received supports  that the insured definition  of Benign Brain Tumour has been met (but it is 
the application of this exclusion that resulted in your claim being denied. 
Since I do not consider  the pre-existing conditions exclusion applies,  I therefore  intend to issue a 
decision along  the following  lines: 
The £150,000  claim be paid in full, as at 15 June  2018   the date from which Canada Life confirmed 
Mr Hs circumstances met the insured illness in the policy terms. 
Interest should be added to the claim  payment.  This should be at a gross annual  rate of 8% simple,  
less tax (if properly  deductible), from the date the claim  shouldve been paid to the date of settlement.   
Given the nature  of the group scheme, I understand Mr Hs membership of the scheme continues and 
he is therefore  not entitled  to a refund of premiums paid beyond the claim date, as would be the case 
for a personal  policy where cover ceases upon receipt of a valid claim. 
Though it was entitled  to refuse a claim, Mr H has explained how he feels  Canada Life has not been 
clear on the grounds  of refusal for his claim.  I appreciate that is to some extent because it 
endeavoured to reply to the two headline  points of his appeal. However,  Mr H also clearly set out in 
the appeal letter how he felt he did not have any permanent neurological deficit  from the first BBT 
diagnosis. Canada Life could have addressed  that point as well, given  it conflicted from the 
conclusions it had drawn and impacted directly on the application of the exclusion.  However, it didnt 
do so. I therefore consider Canada Life ought to pay Mr H £500  for the upset  he has been  caused.
I dont intend to propose to make any other award.  
Ref: DRN704000814recommendation
The maximum sum Im able to award  in accordance with the rules  of this service is £150,000. This 
isnt inclusive of interest. On that basis, my determination covers the sum assured owing to Mr H in 
accordance with their policy terms.  However, should Canada Life calculate  any sum due as 
exceeding £150,000, I also recommend  that it ought to pay any balance  over and above this sum to 
him.   
A recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Canada Life doesnt have to do what I 
recommend. If Mr H accepts the decision, its unlikely that he can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. In that scenario, he could seek independent legal advice  before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. However, as I have set out above,  I think  that is unlikely given no 
premium refund appears to be due, and the sum assured  is at the exact level of the limit on any 
award I can make  for complaints brought to us before  1 April 2019.
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to uphold  this decision and direct Canada Life Limited  to pay the redress 
proposed above.  
I now invite  the parties to let me have  in writing  any further submissions  they may wish to make no 
later 30 May 2019.   
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7040008