K821x#15complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Temple Finance Limited  (trading  as Perfect Homes) gave her 
incorrect information about her loan repayment  plan.
background
Mrs S bought a number  of household items  on credit with Temple  Finance. The current 
dispute is over repayment for a sofa. Mrs S entered a rescheduled payment plan and says 
she was given incorrect information when she later spoke to a representative on the phone. 
She says she was assured payment had been  taken  from her overall payments to 
specifically pay off most of what was owed on the sofa. She says she was told the balance  
left on the sofa was £46.76 and this would be paid off with one more payment. But this 
wasnt the case as the total she paid in was put into her account  and no payments were 
made towards the sofa. 
Temple Finance said in its final response that Mrs S was given incorrect  information. It 
apologised for this. It said the outstanding  amount on the sofa agreement was £184.45.  And 
she shouldve known  this as she could see her account online.
Our investigator felt that this complaint should be upheld. She said:
Mrs S hasnt  been financially disadvantaged  by the information she was given. She 
still owes the same amount on the sofa overall.  But Temple Finances  failure  to carry 
out her instructions has led to a loss of expectation  and caused  Mrs S stress  and 
anxiety.
Mrs S wanted to pay off what was owed for the sofa and it was fair for her to rely on 
what she was told. It wasnt reasonable to expect her to check her statements to 
confirm what the representative  told her.
Temple Finance shouldve provided  clear,  fair and non misleading information to her 
But it didnt do. And its fair for it to pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the anxiety and 
inconvenience caused.  
Temple Finance doesnt agree and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  It says it believes 
£100 compensation is excessive. Mrs S hasnt experienced financial detriment. It would be 
prepared to pay her £50 compensation. Her account is now £1,398.72  in arrears and no 
payment has been received since August 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Temple Finance accepts Mrs S was given incorrect information about  paying off the credit 
for the sofa when she spoke to its representative on the phone. Its apologised for this and 
recently offered  to pay her £50 compensation. 
I think Mrs S was entitled to rely on what she was told by Temple Finances representative 
on the phone. And I dont think its reasonable to suggest she shouldve  checked  what  she 
was told by accessing her account online.
Ref: DRN77094022Clearly what she was told on the phone wasnt correct as money shed paid hadnt been 
specifically applied to paying off the amount owing for the sofa. And as her payments were 
applied to her account  generally she was in fact further away  from paying  off the sofa 
agreement than shed  been led to believe.
That wouldve  been disappointing and frustrating for Mrs S. And I think  her individual 
circumstances also heightened  the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I dont think Temple  
Finances recent offer to pay £50 compensation for this is enough.  And I agree that a fair 
and reasonable award of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs S was 
caused is £100 as suggested  by the adjudicator.
Overall I think  the adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I require Temple  Finance Limited (trading as 
Perfect Homes) to pay Mrs S £100 compensation.
Temple Finance must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs S accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Temple Finance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7709402