K820x#14complaint
Miss O has complained about esure  Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about  the valuation  it 
provided for her car after a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss O was involved  in an accident  in December  2018 and she made a claim to esure.  It 
decided that her car was a write off and offered her the market value of her car. 
But Miss O didnt think this represented the cars true value. She outlined that she had just 
spent a lot of money getting the car through its MOT and believed the car was worth more 
than esure  had offered, so she complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt  uphold  her complaint. He checked  the 
various valuation  guides and explained our approach to these cases to Miss O. Ultimately; 
he thought esures  offer was fair.
As Miss O didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
I can understand how disappointed Miss O is about  the valuation  placed on her car. She has 
had the car a long time and spent a lot of money on it just before she had the accident. 
Although I can understand Miss Os frustration,  any work undertaken to ensure a car is 
roadworthy has no real affect on its market  value  such MOT work just ensures a car is 
roadworthy. esure has simply looked  to pay Miss O the market  value of the car at the time of 
the accident which is all it was obliged to do under the policy.  
As our investigator explained we look to check whether  the valuation  placed on a 
consumers car is fair in all the circumstances. It is very difficult  to value second  hand cars 
and this service doesnt look to value cars,  we just look to see whether the valuation the 
insurer has offered seems reasonable. 
We pay attention  to the various trade guides used for valuing cars, as well as other evidence 
provided by both parties. This evidence might  include advertisements for the sale of similar 
cars although we place  less weight on these than on the trade guides. This is because  cars 
dont usually sell for the price at which they are advertised. The condition  of the car at the 
time the accident  occurred is also an important factor to consider. 
I will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance I can see that esure  wrote Miss Os car off. This was because the level of 
damage caused would have cost close to the cars value, if not more. It then looked  to 
provide the market value of her car by looking at the trade valuation  guides which  give a 
suggested value  of her car at the time of loss. Ive looked at esures  valuations  and this 
services own independent valuations are in line with its offer so I think  esures offer is fair.
Ref: DRN70460302I can see that esure also deducted  a small amount for pre-existing damage. If a car is 
damaged in anyway then this impacts on its value and we feel that an insurer is entitled  to 
make a reduction for this. We generally  feel that an insurer shouldnt deduct  more that 50% 
of the estimated cost of repair and I can see that it has charged less than this, so I think it 
has acted reasonably here. 
So, although  I can understand Miss Os disappointment, especially as she had spent a lot of 
money on the car not long before the accident I think  esures offer is fair and in line with the 
general market value of her car.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7046030