K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains via her representative that Tesco  Personal Finance PLC (TPF) has 
treated her unfairly with how it has priced her buildings and contents insurance policy over a 
number of years.
background
Miss M first purchased building and contents  insurance with TPF in 2010  and renewed with 
each year until 2018. 
During the time she was insured with TPF Miss M didnt really  engage  with it on the price of 
her insurance and she accepted the renewal  invitation without question. When Miss M first 
took out the insurance with TPF she was paying £152.66 per annum for her buildings  and 
contents insurance. When the policy  was cancelled in 2018  the annual  cost of the policy had 
risen to £716.40.
In 2018 Miss Ms sister noticed  how much she was paying for her insurance and questioned  
this with TPF. Shed recently been granted Power of Attorney (POA) for Miss M and was 
shocked to see how expensive her home insurance  was. She said the cost of this put a 
strain on Miss Ms finance and left her with little money after paying  the renewal in one go. 
She thinks TFP hasnt been fair by increasing Miss Ms insurance as it has over the years 
and that Miss M has been taken advantage of.
Our investigator looked at Miss Ms complaint.  He explained this service  cannot tell a 
business what it should or shouldnt charge for the insurance it offers  as this is its decision to 
make. But we can check to make  sure that a business has treated a customer  a fairly. He 
considered what  TPF said about  the insurance  it offered and how it reached the price it had, 
based on this he didnt think TPF had treated  Miss M unfairly.
Miss Ms representative didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair that TPF was able to offer an 
alternative policy for over £500.00 less than the previous policy Miss M had. And she didnt 
think the number  of claims TPF said had been made on the policy  where actual claims which 
had been paid out. Overall she didnt think the price  Miss M was paying was fair or that TPF 
had treated her fairly when offering her the insurance it did.
Because Miss M has disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss M and her 
representative so Ill explain why below.
TPF is an intermediary  for insurance  with its own associated underwriters. So although  it 
doesnt underwrite the cost of Miss Ms policy directly, it is responsible for providing her the 
service and producing  the overall  cost that shes paid each year for this. 
Ref: DRN76485272As our investigator said in his view, it isnt the role of this service to tell a business how to 
price the policies it offers. To do so would be interfering with its commercial judgement and 
is outside of mine and this services remit. But we can consider individual  complaints to 
check whether a business has acted fairly  when  pricing their insurance.
Miss M was insured with TPF for a number  of years and  for the majority of this time  she  
didnt engage  with it on the price  of her renewal. When a customer isnt engaging with their 
insurer on the price of their insurance at renewal we refer to this as price inertia  the FCA 
talks about these customers when it refers to price walking. Generally we think a business 
should become  aware that a customer isnt engaging on the price  of renewal if there has 
been no engagement  on the renewal  for four consecutive renewals. 
In Miss Ms case I think by 2015  it should have been clear she wasnt  engaging  with the 
renewal. From this point  onwards  TPF needed take care that it didnt increase  the price  of 
Miss Ms policy simply because of her lack of engagement and likelihood  to accept the 
increase. To do so would  be unfair  and taking advantage of her inertia. 
From 2010  through until 2015,  the cost of Miss Ms policy increased steadily. We know new 
customers often receive  a new customer discount which  is recouped overtime and this isnt 
something considered  to be unfair   as the customer has received the benefit of this 
reduction from the outset  with a cheaper premium.  The price increased more  steeply in 2016 
and 2017 before more than doubling  in 2018.
TPF has said a number of things impacted the cost of Miss Ms policy  from 2015 onwards. 
There was a number  of claim notifications made 2015 and 2017. TPF has confirmed none of 
these claims were  ever settled but has said the fact they were given notice of a claim 
impacted how it viewed the risk of Miss Ms insurance. I appreciate Miss Ms sister  has 
explained why these claims were made and the fact theyve impacted Miss Ms premium 
without being  successful will be a cause of frustration. But the loading  TPF and its 
underwriters chose to apply for notifications is its decision  to make and it appears this has 
been applied  consistently with how it would have viewed  this with any other  customer  with 
similar circumstances and claims notifications. Because of this I dont think its treated 
Miss M unfairly  with how its applied these and priced her policy.
In 2017 TPF said it changed  the way it viewed  the flood risk for Miss Ms property, 
considering it to be a higher flood risk than before. The policy was ceded to Flood  Re which  
meant the flood risk element  of the policy was effectively underwritten  by it, the scheme  
takes over the flood  risk of certain  qualifying properties for a pre-set  fee which is based on 
the council tax banding on the property. But overall, together  with the impact of the claims 
notifications, Miss Ms premium still increased singficantly.
TPF can and will reassess  how it views  the risk it insures regularly and I dont believe its 
acted unfairly when it did this with Miss Ms property. Ultimately  it is for it to determine what  
level of risk it willing to take on and at what price. As it learns more about areas and 
consumer claims  behaviour it takes account  of this information when deciding  what  price  it is 
willing to offer the insurance for the following year and this is what has been applied  here.   
In 2018 Miss M called TPF to renew her insurance.  She explained to the adviser she hadnt  
received her renewal invite and because of this the adviser on the call went through  all of the 
information Miss M would  have been provided with in the renewal document. This included  
confirming the previous  years premium was £273.38 compared with the renewal price 
offered of £716.40  and they explained  that Miss M might be able to get a more  competitive 
Ref: DRN76485273price if she shopped  around (this is regulatory  requirement for all customers whove been  
with the same insurer for more than four years).
At this point TPF wasnt aware of Miss Ms vulnerability and I dont  think its unreasonable  
that it didnt make any adjustments with the information it was providing or check whether 
this was better discussed with a third party on her behalf. 
When a customer speaks  with their insurer about their policy and expresses dissatisfaction  
with the price, Id expect  an insurer to explain all suitable options it has available  when 
discussing this. This would include if applicable,  alternative polices  it has that meet  the 
customers needs. As if cheaper, its likely a customer  would look to take out a cheaper 
suitable alternative policy if theyre  unhappy  with the cost of their insurance. If this wasnt 
offered the customer will potentially have lost out as a result. However, Id only expect this to 
be discussed if the customer expressed  this dissatisfaction with the renewal price. 
When Miss M spoke with TPF she didnt indicate she was unhappy with the price offered. In 
addition to the buildings and contents insurance,  she was offered a home  emergency  add on 
during the call. Miss M declined  this but did comment  to say it was good  value  in her 
opinion and that she used to work in insurance  so knew a bit about it. Although she 
questioned whether to pay monthly or annually for the insurance  before choosing annually, 
she never questioned the price or that it was more than she wanted  to pay or could afford  to.  
I understand how frustrating it is that Miss M was able to find suitable alternative cover  with 
TPF for much less than she paid in 2018  and why this also prompted the complaint. But Im 
afraid this doesnt  mean the price  of her insurance was wrong. All insurances  are different 
and offer different levels of cover  with different options for excess as well as policy limits.  
There was no obligation on TPF to discuss these alternatives  with Miss M as it wasnt  acting 
as a broker so didnt need to actively search  for or offer these.  And based on what Miss M 
said when she called  to discuss  her renewal, I dont think TPF acted unreasonably. 
Im satisfied that the cost of Miss Ms policy overtime reflected TPFs  view of the risk it was 
insuring and the increases in price have  been  based  on changes  to the view of risk. I dont 
think TPF increased Miss Ms premiums simply because she wasnt  engaging with the cost 
of her policy. And when  she did speak  to it about  the renewal, it provided all the information  
it needed to.
Im sorry  this isnt the answer Miss M or her representative are hoping  for but based on 
everything Ive seen I dont think TPF needs to do anything more  with this complaint.
Ref: DRN76485274my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2021.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7648527