K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by WPS Financial Group  
Limited to transfer  his pensions in 2014. He also says that he never  received  all of the 
documentation relating to the recommendation and wasnt made aware  of all the fees 
involved.
background
I issued provisional  decisions on 7 February 2019 and 10 May 2019. Copies are attached 
and form part of this final decision.
Mr B responded to the second provisional  decision.  In summary:
He asked why was he asked to pay so much money for an incomplete  and 
inaccurate report?
He asked how WPS could have discussed the advantages and disadvantages of 
GARs with him when  it only sent him details of the GARs in 2016? He supplied  some 
documents from 2016 which  supplied him with information  about  the GARs.  Mr B 
highlighted the lack of discussion or mention of GARs in the recommendation report. 
He said WPSs comments in relation to his health are incorrect. Mr B questioned why 
if WPSs comments about his health  (being that Mr Bs health was poor)  were  true, 
why it did not ask him to fill out a health questionnaire so that his entitlement  to an 
enhanced annuity  could  be investigated?
Mr B questioned whether it was possible to take individual annuities for those  policies 
with GARs applying  i.e. not converting  all the policies to annuities.
Mr B asks how WPS can justify its charges give its failings.
 
WPS responded to the second  provisional  decision. It said, in summary:
It has provided documents that show that Mr B was fully aware  of the GARs and their 
value. His enquires about pension enhancement due to ill health  proves  his 
understanding of GAR values.
There cannot be any doubt that Mr B was aware  of the applicable GARs some years 
prior to the point  of transfer. The documented evidence has been dismissed or 
ignored by the ombudsman.
Mr Bs comment that he was intending  to keep his money in drawdown  mean  he had 
full knowledge  of the potential loss of GARs. He never wanted to purchase  an 
annuity.
The complaint  is being upheld for something  Mr B did not want and still does not 
want. His claim is vexatious. He would not have made a different decision if the 
recommendations report was corrected at the time. 
It agrees with the redress  methodology but this would not be in Mr Bs best interests.
Ref: DRN79847482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat the content of the attached  provisional decisions, but in addressing the 
further material submissions I would say that:
I considered whether  it was likely the adviser  and Mr B, undertook a careful analysis 
of the disadvantages and advantages  of the GARs in my provisional decision. I 
mentioned the lack of any such discussion and the incorrect  information  provided 
about GARs in the recommendation report in both provisional decisions. I did not 
believe the analysis  WPS said took place, likely happened.  I remain  of that view. The 
redress I set out would compensate for this. 
I noted the issue as to Mr Bs health  but, even if Mr Bs health was as poor as WPS 
suggested (which  Mr B has strongly disputed), I commented that the GAR policies 
provided for a widows benefit and he was still left with a considerable part of his 
pension benefits  (not benefitting from GARs) he could use as he wished (including 
drawdown). So I did not believe that Mr Bs health dictated  that drawdown was the 
best option. Mr B would  simply  obtain different death benefits  if he chose to take the 
GARs via annuities.    
It would  have been likely possible for Mr B to choose individually  which policies with 
GARs applying would be converted to annuities and which to take benefits in 
another way. But, given the benefits of the GARs applying  to all policies, I believe it 
too speculative  to say which may or may not have been converted individually. My 
view is that it would be more likely  that either  the GARs would have been exercised 
on all policies or not. Redress is on that basis.  
I considered the issue of WPSs fees in the provisional decisions.  My view as to that 
issue remains the same for the reasons I explained. 
I have not dismissed or ignored any evidence  supplied by either party. I considered  in 
my second provisional decision  Mr Bs awareness of GARs. I set out that, even if Mr 
B had that awareness, he was not likely  given  the guidance and comparisons he 
should have by WPS. And in my view WPS minimises the clearly  incorrect  and 
misleading information it gave in its recommendation report and the lack of any such  
guidance and comparisons. In my view Mr B couldnt have made a fully informed 
decision without this. 
Mr B mentioning that he might now retain the drawdown route is not definitive 
evidence that he would have done  that previously, or that he was aware of all the 
advantages and disadvantages  of GARs  as compared  to other benefit routes 
previously. That does not follow.  As I have set out previously, if Mr B does not wish to 
take the annuity route then WPS will not have  to calculate and pay redress on that 
basis. 
That Mr B may have explored  enhanced  annuities is not persuasive evidence  he 
knew about all the facets of GARs, let alone  carry out a comparison by himself 
between, for example, annuities with GARs  and drawdown. Enhanced annuities can 
be obtained whether GARs apply or not. 
Ref: DRN79847483my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decisions and this decision, I uphold the complaint. 
I set out the redress  I was likely  to award in my second provisional  decision. I will repeat it 
here.
The appropriate redress would  be to put Mr B back in the position he would  be in. That 
would be that he would  have had three policies with GARs applying and would have the 
opportunity for those  to be converted to annuities to benefit from those GARs. 
WPS has said that it can put annuities into effect  that would replicate the benefits of the 
GARs. It has confirmed that it will use the value  of the existing fund represented by the 
policies to which GARs applied to purchase annuities and then purchase whatever 
additional annuity is required to make up the income level to that which would have been 
generated by the GAR policies.
My award, should Mr B decide to put those annuities into effect  and accept my final decision, 
is for WPS  Financial Group Limited  to carry this out.
When putting into place  the annuities WPS will have to replicate the benefits of the GAR 
policies  for example including any escalation in payments  provided  by the GAR policies or 
any widows benefits (should they have been  converted into annuities). If tax free cash  could 
have been taken whilst still obtaining the GARs  when putting the annuities into force  (at age 
65), then Mr B will be given the option  of taking  that from the GAR policy value in his pension  
fund - albeit  this would  have  likely  affected the annuity payment level  and therefore the 
annuities that WPS would  need  to put into force.  
Mr B will likely need to provide permission and/or authority to WPS for it to be able to carry 
this out.
My decision  is that the annuity payments would have become  payable (annuities put into 
effect) at Mr Bs age 65. Assuming that, WPS would also have to provide the annuity  
payments that would have been made to Mr B between the age of 65 and the date of my 
final decision*. Interest  at 8% simple  per annum would need to be added  to each payment 
from the date it should  have  been made until the date of my final decision.      
Should Mr B accept this final decision I also order WPS to pay him £300 for the upset and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
As discussed, should Mr B not accept this redress method then WPS will not have to 
calculate or pay this redress (and it will not have to put any annuities into force). 
*If Mr B accepts  this final decision and the redress then WPS would need to carry out and 
pay redress within 56 days from the date of acceptance. If it does not then it will need to pay 
additional annuity payments to Mr B from the date of the final decision until it sets up the 
annuities described  above. If the £300 payment described above is not paid with 56 days  
then it would also need to pay 8% simple  interest on the £300 payment from the date of my 
final decision  until the date it is paid. 
Ref: DRN79847484Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79847485second provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by WPS  Financial  Group Limited to 
transfer his pensions in 2014. He also says that he never received all of the documentation  relating to 
the recommendation and wasnt made aware  of all the fees involved.
background
I issued my first provisional decision on 7 February 2019. A copy is attached and forms part of this 
decision. In the first provisional decision  I explained that I was intending to uphold the complaint.  
Mr B responded and said: 
He did receive the suitability/switching report in June 2015 but it was inaccurate.  
He was told of fees to be paid but highlighted  the changes made  to documents  setting out the 
fees. He highlighted  that WPS offered to reduce  its fees and that it has commented that there 
was no explanation how the form was amended. By offering to reduce fees he felt that WPS 
had admitted its wrongs.
He did not refuse meetings because of his health.
The issues concerning  fees would have been picked up sooner had the suitability report been 
supplied at the correct time.
If the redress will mean that he will not have paid fees?  And suggested that any 
compensation figures calculated by WPS should be checked.   
The pension  monies held as cash are still with Nucleus Financial and he has not started 
taking an income. 
WPS responded to the provisional decision and said it did not accept it. In summary it said that:
Whilst its pension switching recommendation  report  of 23 October 2014 didnt set out all the 
details as comprehensively as it should, Mr B was aware of and fully understood the 
applicable GARs.  He questioned these with the providers and they were  set out in 
correspondence. The adviser and Mr B undertook careful analysis  of the advantages  and 
disadvantages of the GARs compared with other retirement options.  
It does  not agree  Mr B would have made a different  decision if the report  had contained a 
comprehensive comparison. 
It then set out what it believed  were the facts of the complaint  including that Mr B was aware 
of the GARs,  had all the information he needed to make an informed decision, his actions  
showed his knowledge of the options and his submissions about health issues were 
contradictory. It also said that Mr B did not correct the report because  his decision had 
already been made to choose the drawdown  route and that it was beyond dispute that Mr B 
was better off through this route.  
It does  not agree  that the redress in the provisional decision is appropriate. It says that it can 
put Mr B back  in the position  he would be in had he opted to utilise the GARs.  It can arrange 
the annuities that the pension  with the GARs would have generated using the GAR  rates and 
performance of the pensions. 
Ref: DRN79847486We queried this offer with WPS  and it said it was prepared to calculate  and pay redress on this basis 
now in settlement of the complaint.  It also agreed to pay Mr B the inconvenience payment I 
suggested in the provisional decision.
The offer of redress was put to Mr B. However he did not accept it. In summary he:
Said there is no reference in the offer to the fees being repaid, which was set out in the 
provisional decision.  The income  from the policies  from the date of transfer has also not been 
taken into account.
Said WPS had admitted wrongdoing in relation to fees.
Questioned WPSs previous comments  in relation to his health. 
Said he only discovered after the pension  transfers that some of his policies contained GARs. 
Because of WPSs actions he then transferred  his funds to cash to protect  his position. So he 
has not benefited  from the returns of the stock market since.  
Said he does not believe  the award  for inconvenience is sufficient. 
I subsequently wrote to Mr B setting out that I thought the redress method WPS  proposed was fair in 
the circumstances and I was intending to make an award along these lines, should I uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr B said:
It was not clear exactly what WPS were offering
There was no mention  of taking 25% tax free cash
There was no mention  of the starting point of the annuity or any lost annuity payments if this 
was in the past.
There had recently been no mention of WPSs previous offers to reduce  fees for the alteration 
of a document
It took WPS a long time to acknowledge  a policy  did have a GAR.
A large sum was paid to WPS  for in inaccurate report.  
He was intending to keep his money in drawdown.  
He wishes to pursue redress over and above what WPS previously  offered plus the loss to his 
pension after the transfer to cash, the sum he paid for the inaccurate pension  report  and an 
award for stress and anxiety. 
WPS also made further submissions. In brief it:
Said its advice was always in line with Mr Bs requests.
Said it had offered  to put Mr B back in the position he would be in if he had opted  to exercise 
the GARs. The fact that Mr B had declined this offer evidences that Mr B did not want to take 
the annuity route and the flexible route was better for him and his family.  
Provided what  it believed was evidence that Mr B was fully aware of the applicable GARs on 
his policies. It also said that the annual  policy summaries would have  highlighted the GARs. It 
Ref: DRN79847487said Mr B definitely knew about the GARs  and wanted to take advantage  instead of the 
flexible route  with all his pensions.
Mr B is using the innocent omission  of some details  from the suitability report to make a 
claim for additional compensation.
It requests  that before  a final decision is made that an agreement  is obtained from Mr B that 
compensation will be provided in the form of an annuity.  And confirmation from Mr B that he 
has used any policies with GARs  applying to purchase annuities.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
advice to transfer in 2014
There is little I believe I can add to the findings set out in my provisional decision of 7 February 2019 
and I would refer the parties to it. I set out in that decision that I was not persuaded that Mr B had 
been given sufficient  information  to make a fully informed  decision as to whether  to utilise the GARs.  
Whilst WPS has said that all the options were fully discussed  (which Mr B strongly disagrees with), I 
have not seen  supporting evidence of that and I would reiterate that the report  which was apparently 
used in the meeting with him confirming WPS advice with respect to his pension, and that was sent 
later to him, did not contain any such comparison. 
In fact that report did not say anything about the applicable GARs.  For two of the policies to which 
GARs were applicable it said, incorrectly, that GARs did not apply. For the other policy it did not 
mention whether it benefitted from a GAR or not. Clearly this is a material omission given the 
significant benefit of the GARs. 
I am not persuaded by WPSs argument that Mr B did not query the fact that WPS stated (incorrectly) 
in its report  that two of his policies did not benefit from GARs (when  they did) because  he had made 
his decision to opt for drawdown. Or in fact that he deliberately did not raise  the issue because he 
hoped to benefit from WPS omissions in the future. The latter is not supported by the evidence  or 
credible given  that Mr B was pursuing this issue only about 9 months after the transfer took place. 
What in fact is much more  likely is that Mr B simply accepted  what  a professional  business  was 
advising him to do  to transfer - telling him and that his policies did not benefit  from GARs and not 
providing an assessment of GAR  benefits.  Mr B says he was not told of the GAR  availability by WPS 
and discussions were  not had on that subject. I note WPS says that they did but I have not seen  
persuasive evidence of that. 
Having said that, I have considered, given the mention of GARs in some documentation that it could 
well be argued that Mr B should have been aware  or was aware that GARs were applicable to some 
of his policies. But WPS were the professional  party which should have set that out and then detailed 
and discussed the benefits of the GARs as compared to other options. That is entirely different than 
an awareness  that GARs might apply. Given the absence of evidence of that comparison, particularly  
any such discussion or even reference to that in the Recommendation Report, I believe it is more  
likely that Mr Bs version of events is the more likely   and such a discussion did not happen.  
In 2014 Mr B agreed to the transfer and not to take annuities from the policies benefitting from GARs.  
His decision may well have been  different if he was in a fully informed  position about all the options 
available and the benefits  of the GARs. So he should  be given  the option of being put into the 
position as if he had taken  the annuity route. Mr B has rejected WPSs current offer but he has 
queried some aspects of that redress which I will address later.  The annuity route,  as I will set out 
later in the in this decision, is the fair and appropriate method  in which to resolve this complaint. The 
fact that WPS may have taken some time to acknowledge the presence of GARs does not alter the 
fact that this is the correct redress route. If Mr B rejects  that route then WPS will not have to carry out 
Ref: DRN79847488the redress  with respect to the pension  transfer in 2014. If Mr B wishes to remain in drawdown then 
the lack of explanation in WPSs report will not have  affected  his position. 
I am not making an allowance for Mr B switching  his funds to cash. Firstly, if he had retained the GAR  
policies their value would not have been in the drawdown and would not have been subject to any 
investment return from the stockmarket. Secondly, with respect to any remaining value, Mr B took 
the decision to switch himself for his own reasons. He did not have to switch  out of risk based funds 
and I cannot say that WPS caused that. So I am not holding it liable for any loss as to the pension 
money not being invested  in stockmarket  based funds.  
I would mention that I do not award punitive damages. If an error has occurred then my aim would be 
to put matters right. In this case that is to put Mr B in the position he would be in had had the error not 
occurred. I will not make  an award over and above that, although I can make awards for 
inconvenience or upset, as set out in the provisional  decision.      
fees
I have considered carefully what Mr B has said about this issue.  But my view remains  as set out in the 
provisional decision.  The fact that WPS made offers to Mr B in respect of fees does not materially 
alter my decision. In terms of the fees paid for the advice, I set out that, but for the GAR  policies, the 
advice to transfer was not unreasonable. And the redress,  if accepted,  will compensate for a lack of 
advice about the GARs. So I do not believe  those fees should be refunded. 
fair redress
My view remains that the appropriate redress would be to put Mr B back in the position  he would be 
in. That would  be that he would have had three policies with GARs  applying that would have had to 
be converted to annuities to benefit from those GARs. 
WPS has said that it can put annuities  into effect  that would replicate the benefits of the GARs.  It has 
confirmed that it will use the value of the existing fund represented by the policies to which GARs 
applied to purchase annuities  and then purchase whatever additional annuity is required to make up 
the income level to that which would have been generated by the GAR  policies.
So my award, should Mr B accept my final decision,  would be for WPS  to carry this out.
When putting into place  the annuities WPS would  have  to replicate the benefits  of the GAR policies  
for example  including  any escalation in payments  provided by the GAR policies or any widows 
benefits (should they have been  converted  into annuities). If tax free cash  could have been taken  
whilst still obtaining the GARs when putting  the annuities  into force (at age 65), then Mr B should be 
given the option of taking  that from the GAR policy  value  in his pension  fund - albeit this would have  
likely affected the annuity payment level  and therefore the annuities that WPS would need to put 
into force.  
Mr B has raised  the issue  of when such payments would  have become payable. My view is that a fair 
assumption would be that they would have become  payable (annuities  put into effect) at Mr Bs age 
65. This seems to me to have been the planned benefit date of the policies and/or  the age at which  
the GAR benefits applied. Assuming that, WPS would  also have to provide the annuity payments  that 
would have been made to Mr B between the age of 65 and the date of my final decision. Interest at 
8% simple per annum  would need to be added to each payment from the date it should  have been 
made until the date of my final decision.      
I have considered Mr Bs submissions about the upset and inconvenience payment I suggested but 
remain of the view that £300  is appropriate  in the circumstances.
As discussed, should Mr B not accept this redress method then WPS will not have to calculate or pay 
this redress (and it will not have to put any annuities into force). 
Ref: DRN79847489I do not require Mr B to provide any agreement prior to the final decision that he accepts 
compensation in this form. My view is that the redress I have set out is fair and there is no other 
compensation method  applicable that I intend to award. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint about the advice to transfer. My award, should my decision remain the same, 
would be as set out above. 
David Bird 
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN798474810copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr B complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by WPS  Financial  Group Limited to 
transfer his pensions in 2014. He also says that he never received all of the documentation  relating to 
the recommendation and wasnt made aware  of all the fees involved.
background
Mr B held a number  of pension plans. In 2014  he met with WPS who noted that he wanted to 
consolidate his pensions as he was retiring in two years time. He was advised to transfer the plans 
into a new pension plan and invest in line with his medium high attitude to risk.  WPS fees were  
noted in its documentation as 2.5% for the initial (transfer)  advice and 0.75% as an ongoing fee.
In 2016 Mr B complained  about  the lack of ongoing advice and the level of fees hed paid. He further  
raised the question of the guaranteed annuity rates (GARs) that hed discovered  hed lost in the 
process of transferring.
WPS agreed to reduce its fees but said the recommendation had been suitable as Mr B had wanted 
the flexibility of a drawdown  plan in retirement. In August 2016  Mr B switched his plan assets into 
cash.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. He felt it should be upheld  in part. He thought  that 
WPS charges had been shown  clearly  in its tariff of charges, and also he believed that the 
recommendation to go into drawdown was, in general, probably appropriate. However  he felt that 
WPS hadnt  given sufficient  advice as to the GARs that were  attached to some of the plans and Mr B 
wasnt put in a fully informed position to determine if it was in his best interests to give up the GARs. 
He considered that, if Mr B had been made aware of the actual value of the GARs, he would  most 
likely have retained the plans  to which GARs applied.  
In addition, he said there  wasnt sufficient evidence  to show  that WPS  had carried out the three 
review meetings it said it would each year, according to its customer  agreement. 
WPS didnt  agree and said that Mr B clearly wanted flexibility in retirement and wanted to take 
advantage of the new pension freedoms. It said he had no intention  of annuitizing his plans 
regardless of whether  or not any GARs were attached and Mr B was a knowledgeable, financially 
astute investor. It also said Mr Bs health  was a problem to him and he wanted to ensure Mrs B was 
financially secure  in the event of his premature death, which would  suggest  drawdown was the best 
option for him. 
Mr B said that he wasnt financially experienced  but merely asked questions  of WPS to confirm his 
understanding. He also disputed that his health was as poor as WPS had suggested and was able to 
attend meetings but preferred them to be at his home following an operation  on his back.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
advice to transfer in 2014
Ive looked at the justification and reasons that were  given for the transfer in 2014.  I agree  with the 
adjudicator that, in general, a recommendation  to go into drawdown and invest  into medium to high 
risk funds in line with Mr Bs attitude to risk was not an unsuitable recommendation. And I think the 
reasons for recommending  the transfer of the plans  with no existing GARs  was suitable. The 
Ref: DRN798474811illustrations show a small benefit to Mr B but I think the flexibility of the drawdown plan was something 
of benefit to Mr B and was likely a persuasive  reason for following this route.  
However, some  of Mr Bs pensions had valuable GARs attached, which  were up to twice  the value of 
a conventional  annuity  rate at the time. So Mr B needed to be made  fully aware of the value of these 
GARs as part of the advice process so that he could  make  a fully informed decision  as to whether to 
proceed. I have not seen  any evidence that a full comparison of the value of the GARs was provided 
as compared to the benefits Mr B might expect from the new plan.  And the fact that three of his 
policies had GARs applying was not disclosed or discussed in WPSs Pension Switching 
Recommendation Report of 23 October 2014, which was the primary  document  setting out why the 
recommendation to transfer to drawdown  was made. In fact two of the policies that benefitted from 
GARs were described in the report as not benefitting from such guaranteed rates.
So, I dont believe Mr B was put into an informed position and could fully appreciate the value of what 
he might lose.  Mr B says that, on the basis of WPSs advice he chose  the drawdown route instead of 
the annuity route. But he says this was without  any explanation by WPS  of the benefits  of the GARs 
applying. For example  he says he was not told that he could  maintain the policies with the GARs and 
take benefits by the annuity route and then take the drawdown route with his other pension benefits 
that remained. I believe  this is the crux of the issue  Mr B made  his decision  based on an incomplete  
assessment by WPS. A discussion of the benefits the GAR policies provided did not happen.  Like the 
adjudicator I believe that if Mr B had been  made fully aware of what  he was giving  up its more likely, 
as Mr B says, that he would have chosen  to keep the plans benefitting from the GARs and later taken 
annuities.
It would have  been straightforward for WPS to explain in detail the benefit of these GARs to Mr B and 
that should  have formed part of the advice it gave. Whilst I have noted the reference by WPS to the 
documents from the providers  of the pensions that note the pensions had GARs applying,  what  those 
documents do not do is give Mr B guidance  or assessment of the value of those  benefits as compared 
to taking drawdown benefits.  That was what WPS should have done. It was the professional  party that 
Mr B sought advice from and paid for. He was entitled therefore to assume that WPS  would have 
provided full and balanced advice  which would have included a full explanation and assessment of 
the benefits of the GARs. 
I do not believe that it is reasonable for WPS to suggest that Mr B could do this for himself  and 
absolve itself of its responsibilities.  He may have been an intelligent  individual capable  of asking 
questions. And he clearly  had some  knowledge  of markets and that investments can be volatile. But 
that does  not mean he had the level of knowledge  to work  out the benefit of the GARs, as compared  
with drawdown, for himself. To describe him as an experienced investor in every aspect  of 
investment and pension products is not supported by the evidence and is not a credible statement. 
WPS has said that Mr B didnt want to annuitize his plans and wanted to ensure his wife was 
financially secure  if he were to die prematurely. I have taken its comments into account but I have not 
seen any documentary evidence from the time the advice  that was given that sets out that this was an 
overriding concern for Mr B. It was not mentioned in WPSs Pension Switching Recommendation 
Report. I believe  it is more likely that Mr B would have retained the valuable GAR benefits  and used 
those as a secure  foundation of his retirement planning. That would  have given him a level of 
guaranteed return which he could have counted on in future, whilst he used the remainder (over half 
of the total pension  funds) of his pension  funds for drawdown. This would have meant he was not 
entirely dependent on uncertain  returns from the drawdown plan whilst leaving a substantial  amount 
of money for dependants.  I have noted that one of plans  providing a GAR did have a 50% spouses 
pension so it is not that none of these  GAR plans  would provide a benefit  to Mr Bs wife. I have not 
seen that these issues were  explained to Mr B by WPS. 
fees
Ive also considered the issue of fees. I agree with the adjudicator that the documents  WPS has 
provided show that the stated fees were consistent with what it actually did charge Mr B. I have taken 
Ref: DRN798474812into account  the comments  that have been made about the provision of information (including when 
the recommendation Report was provided) but overall I dont  think there is enough  evidence  to say 
that WPS misled Mr B about the fees.  It may be that the issue was confused with the charges  to be 
made in respect of Mr Bs ISA. In general terms the fees are not unreasonable. I appreciate that Mr B 
complains about documents being altered (with respect to fees) but the overriding issue is that Mr B 
was charged the correct fees and I doubt his decision to enter drawdown (notwithstanding  the GAR  
issue) would have been any different if he had been clear  about the fees (assuming that he was not). 
It is worth noting  that should my suggested redress remain the same,  Mr B wont pay (or will be 
compensated for) the fees on the transfer of the GAR policies.  
So, although  WPS could  have communicated  the issue of its fees better to Mr B, I think its charges  
were in line with what had previously been set out. And I think Mr B would have expected to pay fees 
for the work involved. 
I have considered the ongoing fee that WPS received for providing ongoing services to Mr B, 
materially the period between the transfer and Mr B making his complaint  which  was around 18 
months. The issue here is whether WPS provided an unreasonable level of service  during this time 
such that it should not be able to receive its fee. From what I can see WPS  did provide information  
and updates  such as valuations during this period and held meetings, or tried to arrange meetings, 
with Mr B.  Currently  I have not seen sufficient evidence  that WPS  provided  such a poor level of 
service that it should refund its fee. It should be noted that this is a separate issue than the advice it 
gave in 2014   which is being addressed. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part.
My aim is to put Mr B as close to the position he would  be in now, but for WPSs error. I believe that 
with suitable advice, Mr B would have retained his existing plans that provided GARs.
I do not believe it is possible  now to reconstruct the three policies that provided GARs. So I have 
considered an alternative redress calculation  which would provide fair compensation to Mr B. In doing  
so I believe allowance has to be made for the value in the drawdown  plan that is represented by the 
GAR policies  (I believe this was around £104,000). 
I am considering ordering WPS calculate and pay the sum of (A  B): 
Calculate the total annual income  that would  be provided  by the GAR policies  individually  as at the 
date of my final decision. Then calculate the current sum that would  be required to purchase annuities 
providing that income as at the date of my final decision (with exactly  the same guarantee periods and 
spouses benefits as supplied  by the GAR policies). This is value A.
Calculate, as at the date of my final decision,  the value of the drawdown represented by the value of 
the three GAR policies transferred. WPS can apply the percentage increase or decrease of the value 
of the drawdown  to the date of my final decision, to the value of the GAR policies  to calculate  this if it 
wishes. This is sum B.  
Ideally any loss sum should  be paid into Mr Bs drawdown plan but this may not be possible  because  
of allowance and contribution limits or if the plan provider  will not accept such  redress payments. If so 
then the sum should be paid direct  to Mr B as a lump sum less a reduction of 15%. This reduction is 
intended to account for the fact that had the redress been paid into the drawdown plan then 25% of 
the redress  would have been  tax free, while  the remaining 75% would have provided an income  that 
would have been taxed  at Mr Bs marginal  tax rate in payment.
Note: This compensation calculation is based  on Mr B not having taken  income from his drawdown 
plan so far and that the GARs would  apply to the three policies between age 65 and 75. If this is not 
correct then the parties should let me know. 
Ref: DRN798474813The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid within 60 days  of 
the date WPS  receives notification of Mr Bs acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must  be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 60 days, that it takes WPS  to pay Mr B 
this compensation.
I also believe this matter  would have  caused  Mr B upset and inconvenience so intend to award  him 
£300 in that respect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr B to accept  or reject  my 
decision before 21 February 2019.
David Bird 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7984748