K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr M and Mrs M bought the policy in 1995  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage through an introducer and the PPI policy  by completing an 
application form. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M only for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £190 a month  towards Mr M and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £11.69 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a warehouse operative. He has told us he was entitled to 
at least six months full sick pay. He also said they had some savings, life cover  worth 
£30,000, death in service  worth twice his salary  and an accident and sickness  policy which  
would have paid £350 for nine months.  Mr M also told us he was entitled  to redundancy pay. 
Mr M has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2000. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr M and Mrs Ms representative  says:
 
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr M and 
Mrs Ms representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr M and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN70813872The information Mr M and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr M and Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN70813873The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr M and Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr M and Mrs M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr M and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M 
and Mrs M, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr M and Mrs 
M suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and Mrs M 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr M and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN70813874YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive been provided  with some paperwork from the time. I note that Mr and Mrs M expressed 
an interest in receiving further information  about  PPI on their mortgage application and a 
couple of weeks  later they completed  a Key Payment Protection Plan application form. This 
specified Mr M as the first insured and on it there  was an easy  guide to calculating the cost 
of the plan. Mr M has signed and dated  the application form and Mr M and Mrs M have  also 
signed again to confirm  their authorisation to take the premiums.
The mortgage offer sets out the cost of the PPI and that it covered Mr M. So, it looks like 
they engaged in the process,  Mr M and Mrs M chose to cover Mr M only, not Mrs M. If they 
hadnt wanted the PPI, I dont think its likely they would have expressed their interest or later 
completed the application form necessary to apply.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M and Mrs M knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr M and Mrs M disagree.   Looking at 
what happened when  YBS sold Mr M and Mrs M the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. I can see that their mortgage (not the PPI) was arranged through an intermediary.  
This is what  Mr M and Mrs M might remember as it appears likely they had discussed their 
mortgage. On the completed paperwork it indicates that Mr and Mrs M wanted to receive 
further details  about PPI. After that there is nothing which makes me think  its likely that they 
received a tailored recommendation for the PPI or that they spoke to a representative from 
YBS.
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr M and Mrs M. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr M and Mrs M were given a broad description  of what  
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr M 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr M and Mrs M would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr M and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr M and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN70813875Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr M and Mrs Ms representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr M and 
Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr M and Mrs Ms representative  considers  to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr M and Mrs M have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr M and Mrs M? To what extent did Mr 
M and Mrs M suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M and 
Mrs M. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
and Mrs M would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done  things properly.  
Mr M and Mrs M say they would  not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr M being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr M and Mrs M chose  to take this policy out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr M and 
Mrs M thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr M and Mrs M have  suffered  any 
loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN70813876Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M and Mrs M knew  they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear YBS told them the exact premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr M and Mrs M would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with YBS at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr M and Mrs M would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  YBS made clear exactly  what Mr M and Mrs M would get back 
in return in the event Mr M made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely  Mr M and Mrs 
Ms expectations about what  the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  defect, infirmity or 
recurring disease for which  Mr M received treatment or advice during the 12 months  
immediately preceding the start date and recurred during the first 12 months of the 
insurance and any chronic or continuing  disease  suffered  by Mr M and which was 
known to him at the start date of the insurance;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, and any similar gainful  occupation which Mr M might reasonably be 
expected to undertake bearing in mind his knowledge or training.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr M and Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude 
that the policy wasnt as good as they thought  and they might  have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M and Mrs M 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr M and Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr M was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr M 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr M didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
Ref: DRN70813877would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M and Mrs M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr M and Mrs M had known he could only claim for disability if Mr M was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about  what  he would have done.  
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr M was unable (through disability) to carry on his 
own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
YBS may not have  told Mr M and Mrs M that any claim they made  would be limited to 12-
months. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr M and Mrs M would have received full sick pay for and 
their statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income. 
This policy would  also pay out in addition  to any other benefits they had. I have  considered 
what theyve told me about  their savings and their other  means. But this policy would have  
preserved any savings  they had for a longer period or enabled them to use their savings for 
other important living  costs or expenses if Mr M was off work for a while.  And death in 
service would only pay out in the unfortunate event of death  not in relation to accident or 
sickness  so it wasnt the same thing  as PPI. And I cant say that another accident and 
sickness policy Mr M says he had, would have paid out in exactly  the same  circumstances or 
for their mortgage if Mr M couldnt work for a while or lost his job.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M and Mrs M would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M and Mrs M be unable  to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr M and Mrs Ms sick pay or 
redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M and Mrs M would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr M was made  redundant, or unable  to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr M and 
Mrs M would  have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr M and Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
Ref: DRN70813878substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M and Mrs M would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr M and Mrs 
Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
and Mrs M found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr M and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M and Mrs M in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr M and Mrs M compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M and Mrs M think YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr M and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1995  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr M and Mrs Ms representative says a court might 
take if it were to find YBS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and Mrs M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN70813879Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 March  2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7081387