K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy with a credit card. 
background
Mrs B took out a monthly  premium PPI policy with a credit card in 1999.  She took it out over 
the internet at the same time as applying  for the credit card. The policy  covered Mrs B 
against accident, sickness, or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Canada Square disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain  why below:
Canada Square  needed to provide clear,  fair and not misleading information  to Mrs B so she 
could fairly  decide  if she wanted to buy the policy.  
The policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical  conditions. I dont think this was made 
clear to Mrs B at the time she was sold the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs B as she had such a condition  at the time of the sale.
Mrs B has told us she had a medical  condition and had been diagnosed with it from around 
1993. Mrs B has told us she had been prescribed medication for the condition.  From what  
Ive seen I think Mrs B would think her condition,  or something related to it, would  be the 
most likely reason for her to have  time off work.
I note that in the questionnaire Mrs B originally sent to Canada Square she did not mention 
the medical condition.  When  Mrs B brought the complaint  to this service  Mrs B mentioned it 
on an addendum attached  to her complaint form.
Canada Square  has said that because of the discrepancy Mrs Bs complaint should not be 
upheld as it isnt certain  that Mrs B had the medical  condition at the time of the sale.
Ive thought about this. In its response to Mrs Bs complaint,  Canada  Square didnt refer to 
Mrs B not having a pre-existing medical condition as a reason to reject the complaint. So I 
dont think its likely  that Mrs B tailored her referral to this service according to Canada  
Squares response to her complaint.
Our adjudicator contacted Mrs B by telephone to ask for more details of the medical 
condition mentioned in the addendum. Mrs B gave the same details again as well as some 
additional information. Mrs B says she didnt mention the condition  in her original  
Ref: DRN79934792questionnaire due to it being a sensitive issue and because at the time of the sale the 
medication she was taking controlled the symptoms.
I have to take into account  that these events,  both the diagnosis of Mrs Bs illness,  and the 
sale of the policy took place many  years ago.
But taking everything  Ive seen into account  I think it is most likely  Mrs Bs condition  had 
been diagnosed before she was sold the PPI policy in 1999.
I dont think Mrs B would  have bought the policy if shed been given clearer  information  
about the policy exclusions. So, I think Mrs B has lost out because  of what Canada Square 
did wrong. 
putting things right
Canada Square  should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI. 
A.Canada Square should find out how much  Mrs B would have owed when she closed  her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Canada Square  should then refund the difference between  what Mrs B owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Canada  Square can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Canada Square should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mrs B would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year .
C.If  when  Canada  Square works out what Mrs B would have owed  each month without 
PPI  Mrs B paid more than enough to clear  her balance,  Canada Square  should also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying interest  until 
the point when Mrs B wouldve owed Canada  Square  something on her credit card. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.  
D.Canada Square should tell Mrs B what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN79934793my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Canada  Square Operations  
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7993479