K821x#15complaint 
Mrs W has complained about the advice that she received in July 2011  from 
Brighton Williams & Partners (referred  to from now on as BWP) to transfer the value of her 
deferred occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits with a former employer (referred  to 
from now on as employer  A) to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mrs W has complained also about two further  transfers to the SIPP from employer B and 
employer C that were carried out at different times.  These complaints are being looked at 
separately by the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
background
In April 2011 Mrs W, then aged 57, met BWP to discuss her financial circumstances and 
what to do with her pension provision.  
At the time working  Mrs W was working in a senior  role on a salary of about £80,000 p.a. 
She was investigating  whether she was eligible to retire early on ill-health grounds  from her 
current employer. However, it appears  that Mrs W did not qualify  for early retirement on 
enhanced terms.
Mrs W owned a property  that was subject to a mortgage. This was let out to tenants and 
Mrs W was living elsewhere with her husband. Mrs W also had a number of other 
outstanding loans and an overdraft. In total these other sums amounted to about £75,000. 
Mrs W had significant pension benefits with two former employers (employer A and 
employer B) and was in the pension  scheme  of employer C. She had been  offered  transfer  
values of about £167,000  and £240,000 from employers  A and B respectively. She was an 
active member  of employer Cs OPS. 
This decision considers  just the benefits  accrued  with employer A.  
The benefits  from employer As pension scheme were projected  to provide Mrs W with an 
index-linked pension of around  £14,200  p.a. at age 65 and a lump sum at age 65 of around 
£28,000. In lieu of these deferred pension benefits Mrs W had been offered a transfer  value 
of over £167,000.  She had approached the business  for advice on what she should do.
BWP recommended that Mrs W should transfer  the value of her deferred pension  benefits in 
scheme A to a new SIPP. This would then allow her to access the tax free lump sum of 
about £40,000 (25% of the transfer  value). This was significantly  greater than the tax free 
lump sum available from the OPS. This would then help Mrs W to reduce  her debts and her 
monthly outgoings.
However it was recorded that Mrs W did not need to access any pension  income  at that time 
as she was still working. However  it was pointed out that after the transfer to the SIPP        
Mrs W would  be able to take income  from the SIPP if she needed to.
Mrs W accepted the advice and transferred the value of the benefits in Scheme A to the new 
SIPP. 
In February 2015  BWP were replaced as Mrs Ws advisers.
Ref: DRN73539682In August  2016  following  the reduction  in the value  of her SIPP Mrs W complained via her 
representatives to BWP about the advice that she had received to transfer  the value of her 
deferred OPS benefits  from her former  employers pension schemes  into the new SIPP.
Mrs Ws representatives have argued that she would have been much  better  off now if the 
transfers had not taken  place. The representatives  have argued  that the advice given to       
Mrs W by BWP was inappropriate and breached the duties that it had to:
Ensure that the investments recommended were suitable  for Mrs W given her 
objectives and the facts  disclosed.
Ensure that she understood the nature of the risks involved with the recommended   
investments, and
Take reasonable steps  to ensure that communications with Mrs W were  clear, fair 
and not misleading.
On 21 April 2017 BWP rejected the complaint from Mrs W and argued  that:
Mrs W wanted to raise  the maximum tax-free  cash sum from her pension 
arrangements in order to reduce her level of debts and to reduce her mortgage. 
Mrs W was told that taking  high levels of income from the SIPP would  reduce the 
level of income available in the future.
The initial report stated that Mrs W did not need income in the short  term but she 
started taking income from the SIPP almost immediately. It noted that she has taken 
several large one off withdrawals from the SIPP. Mrs W had taken around £400,000 
from the SIPP over 5 years. As a result the value of the SIPP has fallen from 
£585,000 to around £223,000.
Mrs W has received  significantly more from the SIPP than she would have received 
from the OPS.
The portfolio  selected was meeting the required growth rates.  
It was Mrs Ws difficult financial position  that caused the problems and the advice 
from BWP was appropriate in the circumstances.
It was only Mrs Ws high level of withdrawals from the SIPP  that has caused  the 
problems that have arisen.
It noted that the high level of withdrawals continued after it was replaced as Mrs Ws 
financial adviser.
Even if it had told Mrs W not to transfer she would  have  gone  ahead anyway 
irrespective of the advice from BWP.
Any loss that was determined would need  to take into account the high level of 
withdrawals and should allow for significant contributory negligence.
As agreement was not reached the complaint  was referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where it was looked at by an adjudicator.
The adjudicator noted that Mrs W had sold her property in December 2016  for £295,000 
which was more than sufficient to pay off her secured loans totalling £270,000. The 
adjudicator also noted that Mrs Ws husband had used an inheritance of about  £70,000  to 
pay for the boat that they had bought.
BWPs representatives have argued that even after it was replaced  as her adviser Mrs W 
withdrew over £200,000  in the period up to November 2016. BWP noted  that the average 
rate of withdrawal over the five year period was over £80,000 p.a. This was significantly 
Ref: DRN73539683more than the level of income  of benefits that Mrs W would have been able to take from the 
deferred pension  benefits she held with her former employers.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint and set out a method of determining  redress. Mrs W 
accepted the adjudicators findings  but the business did not arguing that even if it had told 
Mrs W not to transfer she would have still done  so as an insistent customer.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point to note is that the regulator had issued guidance in its handbook (COBS  
19.1.6) that stated:
When advising  a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer  or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests
I have then considered  whether the transfer could be considered to be in Mrs Ws best 
interest.
I note that in July 2011 Mrs W had been recorded  by BWP as having a relatively  cautious  
attitude to risk. This would mean that Mrs W was unwilling to accept any significant  degree 
of risk with her pension  benefits.
I also note that before  the transfer  took place the pension provider carried  out a calculation 
to determine the critical yield. This is the rate of investment return  that would have to be 
achieved after transfer to ensure that the personal pension policy had the same  value at 
retirement as the benefits that would  have been provided by the OPS.  In this case the critical  
yield was 13.0% which would mean that the transfer  value on offer was low compared to the 
value of the benefits that she had accrued in the OPS using the regulators valuation 
assumptions.
It is important  to realise that at that time pension providers were  required by the regulator to 
issue illustrations on assumed future growth  rates of 5%, 7% and 9%. Therefore the critical 
yield of 13.0% just to match  the benefits being  given up would have been considered very 
high. 
I do not consider  that the level of debts that Mrs W had was so high that she would have 
ignored professional  advice that she received not to transfer and transferred anyway on an 
insistent customer basis. Her mortgage  was on a property  that she rented out and the 
mortgage was paid off in full when the property  was sold. There was no urgent  need to 
reduce the mortgage and her loans  using the tax-free lump sums from her pension  
arrangements.
In a letter dated 1 June  2011 the business noted  that Mrs Ws attitude  to risk had come out 
as 1 after completing a risk assessment  questionnaire (this was the lowest  rating).  Despite 
this outcome, the business stated as the investments  in the SIPP  would be held for a long 
term it felt that a slightly higher degree  of risk was appropriate over the medium term.       
Ref: DRN73539684Mrs Ws funds  were then invested in a range of cautious funds that, in my opinion, would not 
be expected to produce the high returns required to ensure  that she was better off on 
retirement after transferring out of the OPS. 
If Mrs W had been  told not to transfer  and she had ignored that advice then this should have 
been clearly documented and the sale recorded as an insistent client transaction. I have 
seen no such evidence  of this on the file.
For the reasons  given  above, the advice to transfer  was unsuitable. The recommendation 
represented a greater risk than Mrs W said she was willing to take. Mrs W should  have  been  
advised to leave her deferred pension benefits where they were  and not to transfer.  I dont 
think her debts were so high that she would have ignored advice  not to transfer.  Had she 
been given that advice,  I think  its more  likely  she would have followed it, since  she did not 
have a pressing  need for the tax-free  cash. I therefore conclude  that this complaint should 
be upheld.
Whilst Mrs W has withdrawn significantly more from the drawdown plan than she would have 
received from the OPS  this will be allowed for when determining the level of any redress.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint against  Brighton Williams & Partners  and that a 
fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs W, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice to transfer  out of the OPS of 
employer A.
Brighton Williams & Partners must  undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision and should use the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ws acceptance of the decision.
It will be necessary  when  carrying out the required redress calculation to allow  appropriately 
for the fact there have  been several transfers  into the SIPP.
Brighton Williams & Partners may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mrs Ws contribution history  to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mrs Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mrs W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 
75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed 
Ref: DRN73539685to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award : 
I require Brighton  Williams & Partners  to pay Mrs W compensation as set out above, up to a 
maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to      
Mrs W within 90 days of the date Brighton Williams & Partners receives  notification  of her 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Brighton Williams & Partners to pay Mrs W 
this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.   
recommendation:
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Brighton Williams & Partners  pays Mrs W the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  
of 90 days, that it takes Brighton  Williams & Partners to pay Mrs W from the date it receives  
notification of her acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs W accepts my determination,  the money award is binding on Brighton Williams & 
Partners. My recommendation is not binding on Brighton Williams & Partners. 
Further, its unlikely that Mrs W can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to her after the money award has been  paid.  Mrs W may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7353968