K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained Capital One (Europe)  Plc acted irresponsibly when approving  two 
credit card applications. 
background
Ms P had two credit card applications  approved  by Capital  One,  one in July 2017 and the 
other in April 2018. The first credit  card had a credit limit of £400  and the second a limit of 
£200.
In July 2018, Ms P started missing her minimum monthly payments on the second  card.  She 
started to miss the payments on the first card shortly after. In October 2018, Capital One 
was contacted by a third party on Ms Ps behalf,  explaining she was in financial  difficulty. 
Because of this, they allowed Ms P some time to look at her finances, complete an income 
and expenditure  form and propose a payment plan.
Capital One didnt receive a proposal or payments on either  card until July 2019. In the 
meantime they had defaulted  Ms Ps account  and updated her credit file.
Ms P felt Capital One shouldnt have approved either application.  She said Capital One 
failed to consider  her previous credit  history or her financial situation meaning she was given 
credit she could never have repaid. This caused her to face additional charges and also 
negatively impacted her credit file. She wanted  Capital One to refund  all interest  and 
charges as well as remove the markers  from her credit file.
Capital One responded saying they thought  their decisions to approve both applications 
were appropriate.  They  said theyd be unable to refund  any of the interest and charges as 
they were applied in line with the credit agreement. They also explained  they wouldnt 
amend Ms Ps credit  file. Ms P was unhappy with this response so referred her complaint to 
us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. They  said Capital One 
completed sufficient checks before approving  each  application and then acted reasonably  
when being made  aware of Ms Ps financial difficulties. So, they didnt think Capital  One 
needed to take any further action.
Ms P disagreed. She didnt think Capital One should  have  approved the second application 
when she couldnt  pay the balance of the first card in full. She thought this made Capital One 
aware of her difficult financial situation. As Ms P disagreed, the complaint has been  passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
When considering  Capital Ones decision to approve both applications, Ive looked at 
whether they were  reasonable in assessing that Ms P could afford to repay the credit and 
whether there were any other  reasons why the credit shouldnt have been approved.
Ref: DRN74618682Ive reviewed both applications and the information Capital One considered. For the first 
application, Capital  One considered Ms Ps income as well as her recent credit history. 
Although there was a default  recorded  on her credit  file, it was recorded  a number of years  
beforehand. I think the rest of the file showed  Ms P had been  managing  her outstanding 
credit effectively as the majority of the accounts were settled or being paid suitably. So, I 
dont think there were any obvious reasons  why the credit shouldnt have been approved.
Ms P said her annual  income was £31,000. Capital One approved  her application  with a limit 
of £400. I think the credit  limit was very modest  and is proportionate when considering Ms 
Ps income  and the outstanding levels of her debt. As the level of credit being offered was 
relatively small, I wouldnt expect Capital  One to have requested  an income and expenditure 
form on this occasion.   So, I dont think Capital One have  acted  irresponsibly  when  
approving the first credit card application.  The checks undertaken were sufficient and based 
on the information available it was reasonable to assume the credit was affordable.
For the second application, Capital  One reviewed the same information  but also had first-
hand experience of how Ms P managed  her first credit card with them. I think  Ms Ps credit 
file continued  to show she was managing the outstanding  credit  effectively, with the level of 
her debt decreasing  by over £1500.00 in the period between the two applications.
Ive also seen the monthly statements  which show she consistently paid more than the 
required minimum payment. Although she went over her limit on two occasions, she made 
the necessary  payments to address  this. Because of this, I again dont think there  were  any 
obvious reasons  why the credit shouldnt  have been  approved.
On this application, Ms P said her annual income  had decreased to £23,000. Capital One 
say they offered a smaller  credit limit of £200   to reflect  this. Again, I think  this is modest  and 
proportionate when considering Ms Ps change in income and reduction in her overall debt. 
And again, due to the size of the limit, I wouldnt  expect an income  and expenditure form to 
be completed.
Im aware at this time, Ms P had begun  to struggle financially. However, I dont think  any of 
the information provided to Capital One made  them aware of this so they were reasonable in 
approving the second application.
Not long after the second application, Ms P began to miss payments on both cards.  Capital 
One were contacted by a third party on Ms Ps behalf in October 2018. Within  this letter, they 
made Capital One aware Ms P was in financial difficulty. I think this is the first time Capital 
One were aware  of this. 
Ive seen Capital  One provided the information the third party requested  not long after. They  
chased the third party  for an income  and expenditure form in November  2018  to allow them  
to consider a payment plan for Ms P. This wasnt sent by the third party  until July 2019.
Ms P feels Capital One had a responsibility  to freeze the interest and charges the accounts 
were generating when  they became aware  of her situation. I would expect  Capital One to 
take sympathetic  and positive steps  to help Ms Ps situation. Ive seen from October 2018 up 
until each account  was defaulted, Capital  One waived any late payment and default  charges 
so only the interest  on the outstanding balances were charged.  
Ref: DRN74618683I wouldnt expect Capital  One to halt interest without an agreed payment plan. Ive seen the 
call notes that show Capital One made several  attempts to contact  Ms P and none  of these 
were successful or returned.
Ive seen no evidence  that shows Ms P contacting Capital One to discuss  her situation until 
March 2019. By this point, Capital One had defaulted her second credit card account and 
revoked the use of her first credit  card account.  No payment plan was proposed by Ms P 
until July 2019  through  the third party acting on her behalf and by this point her first credit 
card account  had also been  defaulted. Ive seen the credit agreements  Ms P signed for both 
accounts which explains Capital One would look to default the account  if payments  were 
missed so I think theyve acted in line with the agreements.
I dont think theres any doubt that Ms P was in a difficult financial situation  at the time and 
that her accounts being defaulted  wasnt the outcome she was hoping for. But, I think  Capital 
One have acted positively and sympathetically  by allowing over six months between Ms P 
stopping payments and the default  of her accounts.  This is a longer time period than Capital 
One needed to allow and I think this shows their attempts to give Ms P time to assess her 
situation. Also, during this time, they froze the late payment and default charges to help limit 
the arrears that the accounts were  accruing.
Capital One eventually defaulted the accounts after not receiving information that would 
allow them to consider a payment plan. This halted  any further interest  on the accounts 
which I think positively affected Ms Ps immediate financial situation.  
So, while I empathise  with the difficult situation Ms P found herself in, I dont think  Capital 
One have been unreasonable when defaulting the accounts and dont think  they need to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about Capital One (Europe) 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7461868