K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
Miss H applied for a mortgage with Lloyds in 2000 and bought  the PPI at the same time. The 
policy wouldve covered  her mortgage  repayments  for up to 12 months for each successful 
unemployment, accident or sickness  claim  she made. Initially it cost her around £11.50 a 
month.
Miss H says she had good employee benefits  and so didnt  need  the cover. And she says 
shed have declined  it if Lloyds had given her a choice.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Hs complaint didnt uphold  it. Miss H disagrees  and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear Miss H had a choice  about PPI and get her agreement  to it. I 
think its likely it did this. Miss H doesnt  remember much about  the sale but Lloyds has given 
us some of the mortgage paperwork from the time. On Miss Hs mortgage application, 
theres a section about PPI. Although I can see some questions  about Miss Hs eligibility for 
the cover  have been ticked, I cant see if she ticked to say yes to PPI  the copy  I have of 
this part of the application is illegible. But Ive been sent two mortgage offers that Lloyds 
made to Miss H, it seems  on consecutive days. The first doesnt include  a cost for PPI; the 
second does.  
From this, I think  its likely  Lloyds  was discussing Miss Hs insurance requirements with her 
at the same  time as it was discussing her mortgage requirements. And, from the documents 
Ive seen, I think its likely PPI was added to Miss Hs account at the time because she 
wanted it.
Lloyds has assumed it sold Miss H the PPI at a meeting at a branch  and recommended  it to 
her. So it had to make  sure it was right for her. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to do 
this. But from how Miss H describes her circumstances at the time and from the policy 
details Lloyds has given  us, I think it was. I say this because:
Miss H was eligible  for the cover. And it doesnt  look like shed have been affected  by 
any of the main things  the policy wouldnt have covered, like known health issues  or 
unusual employment  terms.  So I dont think there  was anything to stop her claiming  
the policys full benefits if shed needed  to.
I think the cover couldve been of use to Miss H. She says she got very good  sick pay 
 six months full pay, then six months half pay. And she says she was unlikely to be 
made redundant. But the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than Miss Hs full sick pay 
Ref: DRN70125812lasted (up to 12 months for each successful  accident and sickness claim) and in 
addition to it. It would also have covered Miss H in the same way if shed lost her job. 
I know she says this was unlikely, but it couldnt be guaranteed. And, in saying this, 
Ive also taken into account that Miss Hs mortgage  was a significant and long-term 
financial commitment and her home  was at risk if she couldnt  keep up with her 
mortgage repayments because of accident  or sickness or if she lost her job. So I 
think it gave her useful added protection over and above her employee  benefits.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Miss H couldnt afford the cover. And, 
being a monthly  premium,  she could cancel it without penalty if she no longer wanted  
it  which  I understand she did in 2003.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss H, Lloyds  also had to give her enough 
clear information about it for her to decide if it was right for her. I dont know what steps 
Lloyds took to do this. And its possible Lloyds didnt make  some things as clear  as it 
shouldve. But, as Ive said, I think its likely  Miss H agreed to the PPI knowing she didnt 
have to, and it was right for her. So I think clearer information, if it had been  needed,  would 
only have confirmed this to her and wouldnt  have  changed her decision to go ahead  with it.
I dont think Miss H has lost out because  of anything Lloyds may have done wrong so theres 
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.  
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7012581