K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is unhappy about both her declined yacht claims and the sale of her marine policy. 
The marine  policy  was provided by Society  of Lloyds.  I will refer to the boat as R 
throughout the decision.
background
R suffered storm damage while based in the Caribbean. Unfortunately,  the strength of the 
storm also forced R on to the slipway at the marina. Further  damage was caused removing it 
as it was blocking access. R was then looted, and Mrs Ds personal possessions were  
stolen. Mrs D made a claim for the storm damage  and this was declined  under the policy  
terms and conditions. Lloyds said cover excludes  damage caused by named windstorms. It 
also didnt pay for the damage caused  moving R as Lloyds said it was all related to the 
storm. Further, Mrs D was unhappy  that Lloyds had continued to collect premiums  from her. 
However, Lloyds did pay for the items  stolen during the looting.  Mrs D brought  her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the sale details were clear  and the 
certificate explained what wasnt covered. Our investigator said the wording was clear  in 
relation to windstorms and the subsequent  damage was only caused as the storm had 
forced R on to the slipway which needed to be kept clear. She accepted  the storm had 
caused this and Lloyds had acted  reasonably  when  it declined the second claim too. 
Regarding the premium  our investigator  said it would be down to Mrs D to decide  if she 
didnt want to continue  with cover and she would  need to cancel the policy. She said Lloyds 
had acted reasonably by maintaining the policy.
Mrs D asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that the initial claim was caused by the named storms. This is highlighted 
by Mrs Ds attempt to extend cover to include  such damage when she knew the named 
storm was heading  to where R was kept.  I think at this point  Mrs D was worried  that damage 
to R was quite  likely. Unfortunately,  not only did the named storm damage the boat but Mrs 
D wasnt able to extend her policy to get extra cover to insure the boat against such an 
incident.
Ive reviewed the policy documentation starting  with the claim.
Claim
I think the wording is clear. The policy exclusion refers to any loss/damage  caused by or 
arising out of named windstorms . As mentioned above I think this clearly was a named 
storm and Lloyds reasonably applied the exclusion.
The second  claim  was in relation to the further  damage caused to R while it was being 
moved from the marina slipway. Mrs D said this was covered by the policy  as it was 
criminal. I understand the point Mrs D is making.  In the same situation I think most people 
Ref: DRN78140052would make the same point. But its accepted  that R was only on the slipway  as it had been 
forced there  by the storm. But for the storm R would still have been sitting  in the water,  there 
wouldnt have been any need to move  R, meaning further damage wouldnt have happened. 
I think Lloyds acted  reasonably when it declined  the second claim as being linked to the 
named storm.
Sale
I think Mrs D has referred  back to the sale as shes understandably upset about the claims 
being declined.  I have reviewed the paperwork and I think the details about the exclusion are 
prominent. I know Mrs D doesnt  agree but the fact that she found them and contacted 
Lloyds to try and add cover just prior to the storm suggests to me that the details were 
straight forward to find. The quote details were two pages and the exclusion is clearly noted 
under additional conditions. When the policy was bought the same  details were provided to 
Mrs D again. So I dont  think Lloyds  mis-sold  the policy.
Premium
I can understand the point Mrs D is making  about  Lloyds  continuing  to take premiums  after 
the claims.  But it isnt for Lloyds to decide  to stop cover in the event of a claim. It is up to 
Mrs D to decide if she wishes  to maintain cover,  cancel it, or move  to another insurer. I think  
Lloyds acted reasonably maintaining the cover as Mrs D hadnt asked it to cancel  the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019. 
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7814005