K822xcomplaint
Miss G acquired household furniture in March 2015, by means of a 42-month fixed sum loan 
agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays  Partner Finance 
(BPF). She says that the furniture was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, and 
that her complaint  to BPF about this matter  was not handled correctly. 
Miss G wants compensation  of £300 from BPF, for both mis-handling her complaint and the 
poor service she experienced.
  
background 
In June 2015, Miss G took delivery of the furniture  the price of which  was a little under 
£2,600. 
In September  2017, Miss G reported a fault to the supplier.  A technician examined and 
repaired the furniture.  The technician reported that there were  no manufacturing defects.  
In May 2018, Miss G reported two faults to the supplier. A technician  examined the furniture 
and repaired  one of the faults,  which was described as accidental  damage.  The technician 
reported the other fault as a manufacturing defect.
In September  2018, Miss G complained to BPF. She offered the technicians  report  as 
evidence of the furniture having  an inherent  defect. But BPF wanted to commission  an 
independent inspection, which took place in January 2019. 
The inspector reported that there  were  no manufacturing defects. Based on this report, BPF 
wrote to Miss G in March  2019, saying that it was unable to uphold  her complaint. But BPF 
accepted that it had provided poor customer service to Miss G, in compensation for which  it 
offered her £50.
Miss G referred her complaint to us in March 2019.  She told us that, in her view:
There was an unacceptable  delay of over 10 weeks, before BPF commissioned the 
inspection
The inspection was not undertaken correctly  a thorough check was not made of the 
furniture
Miss G also told us that she raised a complaint in January 2019 with The Furniture 
Ombudsman (TFO) against the supplier.  This complaint was about  the quality of goods 
supplied. It was concluded in May 2019   the supplier offered Miss G compensation of 
£1,500.
BPF told us it acknowledged  that its customer service in this matter could have been better, 
and it offered Miss G an additional £100.  In response, Miss G said that the additional 
compensation was insufficient.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service and TFO are both alternative dispute  resolution entities. 
Because Miss G had already  referred her complaint about the quality of goods to TFO, we 
were unable to consider  this matter. But we were  possibly able to consider whether  BPF had 
investigated Miss Gs complaint properly, and whether it had treated its customer fairly.
Ref: DRN79090492Our investigator thought that BPF had conducted  a proper investigation:
She noted Miss Gs concerns about the inspection
But she noted as well that we rely extensively  on independent expert  opinions  in 
circumstances like this complaint 
And she had no reason to doubt  the independent  experts  conclusions
Our investigator also noted that Miss G had received poor customer services from BPF, 
which it had acknowledged. As a result, Miss G had experienced distress  and 
inconvenience. Our investigator  felt the combined offers of £50 and an additional £100 
represented fair compensation. and she recommended them to Miss G.
Miss G disagreed with our investigator. So, this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
 
BPF has a responsibility to ensure that goods  of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances.  But there 
are limits to BPFs responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present or developing at the 
point of supply.
We are aware that the quality of goods supplied has been the subject of a complaint to TFO, 
which has been completed. But I think we can consider whether BPF investigated Miss Gs 
complaint fairly, although the available  information  is contradictory.
On the one hand, Miss G refers to the May 2018 technicians report. She also argues that 
the BPF commissioned inspection was not undertaken correctly.
On the other hand, the September 2017  technicians report  and the BPF commissioned 
inspection report both indicate that the furniture did not have manufacturing  defects. 
Given the length of time between delivery to Miss G and the dates of all these report, the 
onus would be on Miss G to demonstrate that the furniture had manufacturing faults  (which  
would be within the bounds of BPFs responsibilities), as opposed to faults  that occurred 
after the point  of supply (for which BPF would not have any responsibilities). 
In these circumstances, it is more likely than not I would have been unable  to conclude  that 
the furniture had manufacturing  defects.  This would imply that the BPF commissioned report  
had not been undertaken  incorrectly.  And so, on balance, I am unable to find that BPF 
unfairly investigated Miss Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN79090493There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that total compensation of £150  in this instance (as offered by BPF and recommended 
by our investigator) is appropriate, given  the circumstances of Miss Gs complaint.  It is 
consistent with our approach to awarding compensation, and with those case descriptions 
and awards.
This means  that I have come to the same  conclusions  as our investigator,  for similar 
reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance) should  pay compensation in total of £150 to Miss G. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October  2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7909049