K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) gave them incorrect 
information about the amount theyd  receive in pounds from euros  when transferring funds.
background 
Mr and Mrs S say they went to a branch of Nationwide around the end of May 2018. They 
were due to sell a property abroad and wanted  to know how much money theyd likely get if 
they transferred  the proceeds from the sale to their Nationwide account. Theyve said they 
were told by the branch manager  theyd  get around £402,000 after the transfer  but once the 
transfer took place,  they received around  £6,000 less than this. 
Mr and Mrs S have  explained they were shown the amount theyd likely receive on the 
computer screen by the manager  and they understood at the time this might be subject to 
some changes as the exchange rate can change daily.  But they accepted the quote  and 
arranged for the transfer to take place on 12 June 2018 once the property was sold.  
As the amount Mr and Mrs S received in pounds  was less than they expected,  theyve said 
they contacted  the manager.  Theyve said initially, the manager was also confused by the 
discrepancy and thought  it mustve been  because  of an error. But theyve confirmed no error 
was made  on their side. So they think Nationwide gave  them  incorrect information. 
Nationwide has said its not given Mr and Mrs S the wrong information. It thinks when 
Mr and Mrs S visited the branch at the end of May 2018, they were  told Nationwide  couldnt  
give them  details about the rate theyd receive if they transferred funds from euros  to pounds 
(which is what  they were doing) as this information is set by the sending  bank. But instead,  
the manager wouldve given them details of the pounds to euros rate. It thinks Mr and Mrs S 
used this information to work out what they thought the amount  theyd get would be. Its said 
the branch manager they spoke to is very experienced  and knows  what  information he can 
and cannot give to customers and so it didnt  agree  itd given them the wrong information.
Nationwide also explained as the information was given verbally, it doesnt have details of 
the screen Mr and Mrs S wouldve been shown or records of the conversation. But its given 
us a statement  from the manager explaining  he remembers the conversation and he didnt 
give the information Mr and Mrs S say he did. Its now told us the manager  has said the 
conversation about the transfer  took place over the phone. Its also given us a copy  of an 
internal email from the manager to another  department when Mr and Mrs S first queried the 
payment  and details  of other  transfers Mr and Mrs S had done previously to show  they 
wouldve known the rates and charges Nationwide applies.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs S complained to our service.  Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought the manager probably gave the 
pound to euro rate to give Mr and Mrs S an idea of what the exchange rate might look like. 
And even  if Nationwide had given the correct information and Mr and Mrs S went elsewhere, 
he didnt think theyd  be £6,000 better off. As they didnt agree with our adjudicators  
assessment, the complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN74024102Before reaching a decision on this case, I discussed  it with both sides.  Following our 
discussions, Nationwide offered Mr and Mrs S £250  to settle  the complaint. Mr and Mrs S 
didnt accept this offer as they didnt  think it fairly  compensated  them. They  reiterated  they 
received around  £6,000 less than they were originally quoted by Nationwide.  And had they 
not transferred  the funds through Nationwide, they wouldve made the transfer  through  
another business  C  recommended by their lawyer. Theyve said they received a verbal  
quote from C which was £1,934.64 more  than the amount  they received from Nationwide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2019. I explained I thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  in part, in summary because:
I wasnt satisfied Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs S correct information   or that it 
clearly explained  the information they were  given couldnt be relied on. 
I thought if Mr and Mrs S had been uncertain  of the amount theyd be receiving, they 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer  to their Nationwide account. 
I thought Mr and Mrs Ss testimony  had been very consistent in this case and their 
actions supported what theyd said happened. But I wasnt persuaded by Nationwides  
managers version of events as I didnt think  his statements had been consistent.  And 
taking into account an internal  email  hed sent another  department  of Nationwide, I 
thought it was more likely hed expected Mr and Mrs S to receive  a higher amount from 
the transfer than they did. 
I didnt think it would  be fair to ask Nationwide to cover the difference  in what  
Mr and Mrs S expected to receive from the transfer  and what they actually received 
because the amount  had been  set by the sending bank. So Nationwide  wasnt  in control 
of how much Mr and Mrs S received. And I didnt  think it was likely theyd have received 
that amount  if theyd  gone elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs S said they were given a better  quote by C. But I hadnt seen enough to 
make me think it was more likely they wouldve got the amount they said they would or 
that C was their second choice.  So I didnt think Nationwide should cover  the difference.
I understood seeing such a big difference in the amount Mr and Mrs S received from what  
they thought theyd receive wouldve been  upsetting for them. So I thought Nationwide  
should pay Mr and Mrs S £250  in compensation. But for the reasons above,  I didnt think  it 
was fair for Nationwide to cover the shortfall  Mr and Mrs S thought  theyd receive from the 
transfer or, the amount  theyve said they wouldve got if they made the transfer through C.
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
Nationwide said it had no further comments to make but agreed to pay £250 in 
compensation to Mr and Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept my provisional decision. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs S said:
The quote from C was for £399,063.09.  As Nationwide quoted  a higher amount, they 
proceeded with Nationwide.  
The amount  they received from Nationwide was less than what  was quoted by C. So 
theyd lost out due to Nationwides  actions. 
Ref: DRN74024103If Nationwide gave  them clear  information,  they wouldve made the transfer  through C. 
Mr and Mrs S also sent me an email  dated 30 May 2019 from C confirming itd provided a 
quote in May 2018 at, a rate of 1 1527  This email explained they wouldve received  
£399,063.09 if they transferred 460,000 euros.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And whilst  I understand its not what 
Mr and Mrs S want, I still think this complaint should  be upheld in part, Ill explain why. 
Ive looked carefully  at all of the information Mr and Mrs S have  given me, together with the 
details of the transaction that took place at the time. And I can see they transferred 457,500  
euros to pounds. The quote provided  by C is for a transfer of 460,000 euros   so more than 
they ultimately went ahead with via Nationwide. Had Mr and Mrs S transferred the same  
amount of funds via C (457,500 euros), based on my calculations,  I dont think  they wouldve 
been better off than they were by carrying out the transaction through  Nationwide. 
Nationwides given  us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss statement  which shows  the rate of the 
transfer was 1.1524. The rate quoted by C was 1.1527. I can see Mr and Mrs S have used 
Nationwide to transfer funds in the past  and theyve said theyve held their account for a 
number of years. So I think its likely they wouldve preferred to use Nationwide  to transfer  
the funds than another business they might not have used before. Ive thought about this 
together with the difference in the two rates offered  and therefore  the difference  in amount 
Mr and Mrs S couldve received from each business.  And Im not persuaded if Nationwide 
had been clearer,  they wouldve gone  with C, or been better  off. 
Considering the distress  I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve experienced in seeing the amount of 
money theyd received  was much less than the amount  they expected to receive, I think 
Nationwides offer of £250 in compensation is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  pay Mr and Mrs S £250  in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7402410