K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
(CEN) trading as QuickQuid and Pounds  to Pocket. Mr P says he couldnt  afford  these 
loans and that CEN didnt take appropriate steps to check  whether he could afford them  
when he took them out. 
background
CEN agreed  11 short-term loans  for Mr P between October 2015  and April 2018. Each loan 
was repayable over a period of three  months,  with the exception of loan 1. Loan 1 was taken 
out with Pounds to Pocket. This was an instalment loan for £1,150, and was repayable over 
12 equal monthly instalments of around £178.  
Ive set out a summary of the lending below. And Ive referred  to the loans taken out with 
QuickQuid under the business entity section  as QQ,  and those taken with 
Pounds to Pocket as P2P.
loan 
no.business  
entityapplicationprincipal  
amount (£)no. of 
instalments duehighest monthly  
repayment  due 
(£)
1 P2P 07/10/2015 1,150 12 178
2 QQ 28/06/2016 400 3 506
3 QQ 23/02/2017 300 3 367
4 QQ 16/03/2017 250 3 306
5 QQ 19/05/2017 650 3 796
6 QQ 25/07/2017 1,350 3 1,663
7 QQ 18/10/2017 1,300 3 1,601
8 QQ 21/11/2017 1,350 3 1,706
9 QQ 21/02/2018 1,350 3 1,652
10 QQ 15/03/2018 1,350 3 1,652
11 QQ 12/04/2018 1,350 3 1,717
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ps complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks CEN carried out on loans 1  4 were 
proportionate. But he thought the checks carried out from loan 5 onwards werent. He thought 
that had CEN carried out proportionate checks  on loans 5 - 11, it wouldve concluded that 
they wouldve  been unaffordable for Mr P, and would not have agreed to them.
CEN disagreed with the adjudicators findings and raised generic arguments  that its 
provided to this service  on many  prior occasions.  
Mr P initially  provided no response  to the findings,  but upon  being made aware  that CEN had 
objected, he re raised his original argument  that he still thought  loans 1  4 should  be 
upheld. He provided no new arguments  or evidence however, as to why, other than those 
already considered by the adjudicator. So as no agreements been  reached at this stage, the 
case has come to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79174172The adjudicator, in his view, set out why he thought CENs checks  werent proportionate for 
loans 5 onwards.  And he explained  that he thought proportionate checks  wouldve shown 
CEN that the loans wouldve been unaffordable  for Mr P.
CEN responded to the view saying that it carried out proportionate affordability  assessments 
for all of Mr Ps loan applications. It said We started implementing changes to affordability  
assessment in June  2014 and all the changes were  completed by 28 February 2015. 
Starting 01 March 2015, before Mr P borrowed these loans, CEN had implemented 
affordability review that is consistent with the FCA Handbook and that was in place at the 
time we received  authorisation  by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was conducted  
properly and individually for each loan.  
CEN raised  this above generic argument, both in response to the adjudicators assessment, 
and in its initial file submissions. 
But this service has addressed this specific  point by CEN in several previous decisions, so 
Im not going  to expand on it any further  here. As by now, CEN should  be aware that my role 
is to look not only into the rules  and regulations set by the regulator at the time of borrowing, 
but also the law, good  industry practice and all the available evidence  and arguments, to 
help decide whether I think what  the business  has done is right or not. And in this case I 
dont think CEN was right to provide  Mr P with loans 5 -11. 
Mr P also disputed the adjudicators findings  regarding loans 1 - 4, but raised no new 
arguments. His initial argument was that he felt CEN shouldve  carried out some basic 
checks before lending to him, which he thought shouldve  included looking into his existing 
short-term credit and reviewing his bank  statements.
However, I can see that the adjudicator  has addressed these points in his view.  He explained  
that the checks carried out by CEN,  when  assessing the affordability of the loans for Mr P 
needed to be proportionate. He said before agreeing to lend to Mr P, CEN had to make sure 
each time he could afford to repay the loans. Affordability checks  should be proportionate.  
What is proportionate depends  on things  like  but not limited to  the size of the loan, the 
repayments, what you knew about Mr P, and the things he told you about his circumstances.
He then went onto set out what  checks CEN had carried out for loans 1  4, which 
predominantly included  gathering information about  his regular monthly  income and regular 
financial commitments, and then explained how he thought these checks were  proportionate 
at the time, and based on them it was not unreasonable for CEN to have though  he could 
afford these  loans. So Im comfortable that the adjudicator has addressed  the element of 
Mr Ps complaint.
Looking at CENs decision to lend - CEN needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mr P could  repay  his loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ps income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN79174173But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ps complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did CEN,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mr P would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mr P would  have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ps indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did CEN  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did CEN, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself 
that Mr P would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Mr P would  have been  able to do so?
loans 1  4
Loans 1  4 were taken out over a period of around  eighteen months. And there had been  a 
gap in the chain of lending of around  five and a half months between  Mr P repaying  loan 2 
and taking out loan 3.
Looking at the amounts Mr P was due to repay across loans 1  2, Im satisfied that CENs 
decision to record details  of Mr Ps regular monthly  income and regular monthly outgoings, 
was sufficient in the circumstances.   
And given  that there seemed to be a gap of almost six months between loan 2 being  repaid, 
and loan 3 being taken  out, I dont think there was anything to suggest  to CEN that Mr P may 
have been dependant  on short-term lending at the time he took out loan 3. And given that 
loans 3 and 4 were  for less than the original amounts Mr P borrowed, Ive also seen nothing 
that suggests to me that CENs checks shouldve gone further at this stage either.  So I think 
the level of checks  carried out for loans 3  4 were proportionate in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN79174174Based on the results  of these checks,  they appear  to have shown that Mr P had a monthly  
disposable income of around £1,000 at the point  he applied  for each of loans 1  4. And the 
highest monthly repayment across these four loans was just over £500. So I think it was 
reasonable for CEN  to have concluded  that the loans wouldve been affordable for Mr P at 
the time he applied. So subsequently  I dont think CEN was wrong  to have  approved these 
loans for Mr P, and I make no award  in respect  of them. 
loans 5 - 11
Ive looked at the affordability checks carried out by the adjudicator,  along  with the 
underlying data used to calculate the disposable  income that he thought  CEN wouldve 
seen, had it carried out proportionate checks. And Im satisfied that these figures 
demonstrate that loans  5  11 wouldve appeared unaffordable for Mr P, had CEN carried 
out such checks at the time. 
However, I havent set out individual, proportionate  affordability checks  for these  loans, 
because I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why.
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ps indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending. Ive looked to see if there was a point at which 
CEN should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so CEN should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  
lending. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case,  I think that this point was 
reached around the time Mr P applied for loan 5. I say this because:
while there had been  a gap between loans 2 and 3, Mr P had now been borrowing 
from CEN for around 18 months in total, at the time he applied for loan 5. And he 
wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed CEN at this point. And was in 
effect paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended  period
the amount  Mr P was borrowing had steadily been increasing, and CEN ought  to 
have realised it was likely his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
I think that Mr P lost out because CEN continued  to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ps 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint about  loans 5 - 11 because the overall pattern of lending  
increased his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and he lost 
out as a result.
Ref: DRN79174175Did CEN  act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything that 
leads me to conclude  CEN acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way.  
what CEN  should do to put things  right
I think CEN was wrong to have approved loan 5 - 11. So it needs to refund all of the interest 
and charges Mr P paid towards these loans.
Specifically, it should:
-refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 5 to 10; 
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
-remove any negative information  about loans 5 to 10 from Mr Ps credit file;
-the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5 to 10 should be removed from 
Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CEN to take off tax from this interest. CEN must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
CEN should also:
remove all the interest and charges  added  to loan 11 from the outset. And then treat any 
payments already made to this loan as payments towards the capital. I understand this 
will leave  an outstanding balance, so CEN  can deduct this balance  from what  it now 
needs to pay Mr P above, if it still owns the debt.
If, after all of the above has been actioned, a balance remains  outstanding, a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan should  be arranged. If however,  the redress  due from loans  5 - 10 
is sufficient to clear the outstanding balance remaining on loan 11, then all entries about 
loan 11 should  also be removed from Mr Ps credit  file. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ps complaint  in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7917417