K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (previously Scottish 
Amicable) mis-sold them an endowment policy for repaying their mortgage. They say they 
were led to believe the policy would reach the target mount  and pay an additional sum. They 
also complain they were sold Payment Protection Insurance as part of the endowment  
policy, which they didnt  need and on which commission was paid. 
background
Mr and Mrs S were  sold a Scottish Amicable endowment policy  in 1987 by J & A Insurance 
and Investment Services. The policy was set up to achieve £14,000. 
In 2003 Mr and Mrs S complained about the sale of the policy to Prudential. Prudential  
explained it wasnt responsible for investigating the complaint as it had been sold by an 
independent financial  adviser  J & A.  
Mr and Mrs S repaid their mortgage in 2005  and their policy  matured with a shortfall in 2012. 
They complained to Prudential again in 2018 about the sale of the policy,  PPI and 
commission. Prudential didnt uphold their complaint as it didnt sell the policy.  It also 
explained PPI wasnt sold alongside endowment policies  but if they could provide evidence it 
would consider this further. 
Mr and Mrs S asked  us to look into this matter.  Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint 
as Prudential didnt  sell the policy. He also explained we wouldnt be able to look at a 
complaint about  J & A as the policy was sold before  the industry was regulated. He also 
found there was no evidence  of PPI being sold.  
Mr and Mrs S have  asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs S are unhappy  about  the sale of their endowment  policy.  But as 
was explained  to them in 2003,  the policy was sold by an independent  adviser J & A. The 
application completed at the time shows this. Although Prudential is responsible for policies 
it or its appointed representatives sold, it isnt responsible for those sold by independent  
advisers. So there is little I can add to the investigators findings. If Mr and Mrs S remain 
unhappy with the sale, they will need to pursue their complaint with J & A.
Mr and Mrs S say their complaint to us was against  both Prudential  and J & A. But we cant  
look at complaints about events that happened before regulation on 28 April 1988 unless a 
business joins our voluntary  jurisdiction. J & A hasnt agreed  to that, so I cant investigate  
their complaint against that business  (even  if we had evidence that Mr and Mrs S had 
already tried complaining to it, which we dont). 
Mr and Mrs S also complain they were sold PPI with the endowment  policy and about 
commission that was paid for that. Prudential explained PPI wasnt  sold alongside the 
Ref: DRN79201652mortgage. I havent seen and nor has Mr and Mrs S provided, any evidence  to show  it was. 
But in the event, that would also be a matter for J & A.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7920165