K820x#14Complaint
Mr T has complained that Amigo Loans Ltd (Amigo) acted irresponsibly by accepting  his 
loan application  because he couldnt afford the repayments.
Background
Amigo provided Mr T with a loan for £4,000 in April 2014. It was repayable  over 24 months. 
The monthly repayments were £247 and the loans Annual Percentage Rate  (APR) was 
49.9%  which, when  applied  to the amount borrowed over the 24-month term, amounted  to 
£1,943 in total. As a result, the total amount payable was £5,934. The loan was secured by 
way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement.
Mr T paid his Amigo loan every month on time before paying a lump sum to clear  the 
outstanding balance on the loan in April 2015.  However, with concerns about Amigos  
decisions to lend, Mr T complained to them  in 2018. In his complaint letter,  he wrote:
I did pay the loan off early in July 2015  as I was struggling to afford  the monthly 
payments due to my other  debt payments  I had before borrowing, I had to borrow 
again for smaller amount  a month  from another company to pay off this loan.
The repayments took so much of my wages, for this period my income  averaged 
about £1100  a month.
My living expenses were roughly: rent/mortgage  £200. Utilities and bills £150. 
Transport costs £100. Clothes £50. Food,  toiletries,  Other debt repayments £500.
This shows that there was no way I could afford this loan, I did say the loan was for a 
car at the time so it would also increase  the amount of my debt to what  I already 
had
In response, Amigo explained that it had carried  out an affordability assessment  looking at 
his credit file along with an income and expenditure assessment that it verified  using 
statistical information that it got from a credit reference agency and the Office of National 
Statistics (ONS). It added Amigo  had no reason to believe that the information Mr T had 
provided was incorrect,  and so it paid out the loan. It observed Mr T kept up with all his 
payments perfectly,  paying each direct debit on time, before settling the loan in full in 
April 2015. It had no indication that Mr T may be struggling to keep up with the loan 
repayments and no contact from him about it. On that basis, Amigo  rejected Mr Ts 
complaint.
Unhappy with Amigos response to the complaint, Mr T then referred it to us. To support his 
complaint, Mr T gave us some bank statements from two current  accounts and a copy of his 
credit file from 2018, covering the previous six years.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and shared  her initial  assessment with both 
parties on 8 November 2019. When  coming to her view, she said that there  were  three key 
questions to determining  a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint:
1.Did Amigo  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay the loan in question in a sustainable way?
Ref: DRN71426202a.If it did, did it come to a fair lending decision? or
b.If it didnt,  would such checks have  shown that Mr T would have been able to repay 
the loans in question in a sustainable way?
2.Was there a point when Amigo ought  reasonably to have  realised it was increasing 
Mr Ts indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful   such that it 
shouldnt have  lent him any more money?
3.Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
With the first question in mind, our adjudicator argued that Amigos checks  before it decided 
to lend in April 2014 werent reasonable and proportionate given the loan term and the cost 
of the borrowing because they werent thorough enough.
As a result, the adjudicator went on to consider what more  thorough  checks  would have 
shown. And having  done  that, she suggested that, had Amigo  carried out such  checks by 
verifying Mr Ts income  and expenditure, for example, using some of his bank statements, it 
would have discovered that he was persistently in his overdraft. She thought this showed 
that Mr T didnt have any disposable  income to meet his current  credit commitments. As 
Mr T was still overdrawn after he received his salary, she found that he was paying his 
priority bills using  his overdraft. And with that being  the case, the adjudicator  concluded that 
more thorough checks should and probably would have led Amigo to the conclusion that the 
lending was likely to have  been unsustainable and therefore unaffordable. So, the 
adjudicator upheld the complaint in full.
Amigo responded in February 2020 disagreeing with the adjudicators assessment and 
asking for an ombudsman to determine  the complaint.  Amigo  said it wouldn't  decline a 
customer for a loan because of them  having  outstanding credit.  It disagreed that this would 
be fair. It considered Mr T was managing his existing creditors very well, with no late or 
missed payments recorded  on his credit file. It didn't  agree  that it would be correct to advise 
a customer on how to manage their credit  and noted  that a customer  may be choosing to 
make minimal payments to a creditor for a number of reasons. For example, they could be 
making the most of a 0% APR offer.
Amigo also said it ensured that it was more than affordable for Mr T to manage his other 
credit commitments  and this loan repayment, and still have a disposable income of at least 
£100 each month.  It argued that it wouldn't  have expected Mr T to have  applied  and 
confirmed that this loan was affordable if he felt that it would over extend himself or be 
unaffordable for him.
In August  2020  Amigo provided us with more detailed submissions on why it disagreed  with 
the outcome we had reached  so far and our reasons for it. There  were two parts  to its 
submissions.
In summary,  section 1 of the response entitled  The affordability assessment undertaken by 
Amigo can be summarised  as saying:
In order to ensure  the affordability  of the Loan,  Amigo obtained a detailed  statement of 
Mr Ts income  and non-discretionary expenditure. He provided  this information to Amigo,  
in detail, during  a 30-minute telephone conversation.  In addition,  Mr Ts income was 
independently validated by comparing it against national averages for his specified 
employment.
Ref: DRN71426203Based  on this assessment and validation, it was clear to Amigo that the loan was 
affordable, given he had a disposable income of £685 per month.
There was no reason for Amigo to doubt anything Mr T said and no reason to check the 
accuracy of the information provided  by obtaining  further verification or validation  from 
him. Indeed, Amigo was entitled to rely upon the information provided in assessing  
whether the loan was affordable, as was expressly recognised in the operable  regulatory  
rules at the relevant time:
CONC 5.3.1 G (11) (which had effect from 1 April 2014) explains that: Where a 
firm requests information from a customer for its creditworthiness  assessment  or 
its assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) and the information provided  by the 
customer is false and the firm has no reason to know this is the case, the firm 
should not contravene CONC 5.2.1 R or CONC 5.2.2  R.
OFT Guidance (in effect before CONC 5.3.1 G): We do not consider that the 
creditor could be held culpable  under  circumstances  in which  it made a 
reasonable request for information  from the borrower, in order  to inform  its 
assessment of affordability, and the information provided by the borrower was 
substantively incorrect/untrue and the creditor (acting reasonably) was not aware 
of this.
In his adjudication, the adjudicator  said that based on the term, and the cost of the loan 
 reasonable and proportionate checks  wouldve  involved you obtaining a thorough 
knowledge of Mr Ts financial circumstances, such as evidence  of his income  and 
outgoings. Amigo disagrees.
The adjudication does not identify what additional steps should have been undertaken by 
Amigo to obtain further information as to Mr Ts financial circumstances. Amigo does not 
accept that there was any reason  to obtain additional information over and above that 
obtained.
The term of the loan was two years. In the context of Amigos  loan book, that was a 
relatively short loan. In any event, the possibility or likelihood of future  changes  to Mr Ts 
income and expenditure  were discussed at length during the 30-minute telephone call. 
No further information  was necessary to give additional  clarity as to the sustainability  of 
his disposable  income over the 2-year term. While Amigo acknowledges that there may 
be situations where there are reasons to believe that there  may be a future change  in 
income or expenditure  (e.g. a loan which runs into retirement),  this was not the case 
here.
As regards the cost of the loan,  the monthly  payments represent the total cost payable. If 
the disposable income is clearly sufficient to cover the monthly instalment (as it was 
here), the cost of the loan is not a reason  for seeking further information.
The loan was taken  in 2014.  By market standards operating at the time, it would not 
have been considered  proportionate to obtain  bank  statements from a customer as a 
means of confirming the accuracy  of information provided by them.  If it would assist with 
the Ombudsmans review  of the adjudication, Amigo can provide expert  evidence  to 
support its position in this regard.
Ref: DRN71426204Having now considered Mr Ts bank statements which the adjudicator  has relied upon in 
coming to their conclusion, Amigo notes  that the statements suggest that the income and 
expenditure given to Amigo was broadly correct.
Section 2 of the response, entitled  Relevance of overdrawn bank account(s) can be 
summarised as saying:
The adjudicator  fails to have any regard  to the fact that Mr T discussed his overdraft 
position with Amigo,  and he said (consistent with the adjudication) that he had access to 
overdraft facilities of up to about  £1,600. That was information known to Amigo at the 
time of lending and, as the Adjudication confirms,  based  on the information Amigo had 
gathered, the lending  appeared  affordable.
Mr Ts credit file recorded that he was overdrawn on one specific account. He was 
expressly asked about fees and expenses associated with that overdraft and Amigo 
budgeted accordingly.  He was also asked whether there were  any other credit items and 
he expressly said no, thats all. Amigo  had no reason to doubt that statement. However,  
for reasons  unclear  to Amigo, the credit file did not contain details of his second current  
account. Had Amigo been aware  of the second  account, Amigo would have taken this 
into account when  assessing affordability, but it wouldnt have impacted its determination 
that the loan was affordable.
The adjudication states that because of Mr Ts overdraft position he didnt actually  have 
any disposable income to meet the credit commitments.  This is non-sensical.  An 
overdraft is simply  an uncommitted loan and is no different from any other form of credit.  
An overdraft will be used  by many consumers  as a means of managing short-term cash  
flow issues. It may also reflect historic financial difficulties. It does not mean the 
customer has no disposable  income. That would be tantamount to suggesting that 
someone who has other debt commitments, such as a credit card of even a mortgage, 
has no disposable income.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. I explained that weve 
set out our general  approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible  lending on 
our website. And having taken this into account along with the relevant rules, guidance, good 
industry practice and law, I wasnt inclined to uphold this complaint. I found  that there were 
shortcomings in the checks Amigo carried out to satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to 
repay the loan in question  in a sustainable  way. I found that in Mr Ts circumstances, 
reasonable and proportionate checks nevertheless would have shown that Mr T could repay 
the loan in a sustainable  way. So, I didnt intend to make any award.
Before I set out a summary of my provisional findings, it is important to highlight  the legal 
and regulatory  framework applicable to this case. 
The Legal and Regulatory Framework
Amigo lent to Mr T while it was authorised  and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Amigo  had initially obtained  interim permission to provide consumer credit before it 
went on to successfully apply for authorisation as a consumer credit provider.
Amigos interim  permission to provide consumer credit and its eventual  authorisation to do 
so meant  that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
Ref: DRN71426205the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to guarantor loan providers like Amigo  
when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability.
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
Ref: DRN71426206[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated  credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.8G provides an example of the above and says:
Ref: DRN71426207An example  of where a firm ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful may be that the information supplied by the customer concerning income  or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other  available  information.
What I Provisionally  Found
Under the legal  and regulatory framework set out above, Amigo was obliged  to lend 
responsibly. This meant  that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr T could afford  to meet  
the repayments in a sustainable way over the term of the loan agreement in question.
The FCA didnt specify what level of detail such  an assessment  might  require  nor did it set 
out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in practice.  Instead,  it said that the 
necessary level of detail  when  carrying out a requisite  assessment  would  depend on the risk 
to the borrower  relative to the borrowers  financial situation  though it wouldnt necessarily 
be limited to that.
But the guidance in CONC did define sustainably repaying debt as being able to meet  the 
repayments of a credit agreement without undue difficulty. And that includes being  able to 
make repayments on time and without taking on additional borrowing to do so while  also 
meeting other reasonable commitments.
In short,  Amigos assessment of Mr Ts circumstances  before his loan application  had to be 
borrower-focused  which means that, while it wasnt prevented from assessing its own risk 
as a lender, it had to assess the risk to Mr T of the borrowing.
As a result, I thought  there were  three  overarching questions I needed to consider when 
deciding a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
The questions were:
1.Did Amigo  carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks  to satisfy  itself that Mr T would 
be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
i. If Amigo carried out such  checks, did it lend responsibly using the information  it 
had?
Or
ii. If Amigo didnt carry out such checks,  would the requisite checks have shown  it 
that Mr T was likely to have been able to borrow in a sustainable way?
2.Was there a point when Amigo ought  reasonably to have  realised that it was increasing
Mr Ts indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful   such that it 
shouldnt have lent him any more money?
3.Did Amigo  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
Mr Ts loan application
Mr T started  his application  online and returned  an electronically signed  credit agreement.  
Later the same day, Mr T phoned  Amigo to discuss his application and complete the 
process. The call lasted  for almost half an hour and he spoke with a member of Amigos  
Ref: DRN71426208underwriting team. Amigo told Mr T that it had received his application  and needed to run 
through some checks. It went on to take some more information about his income and 
outgoings. Before  doing so, Mr T confirmed that he had lived at the same  address since  
birth, was single with no dependants.
Mr T confirmed he was employed full-time and that he received a basic  salary plus 
commission. Amigo asked for his basic monthly  take-home pay  Mr T said his basic  annual 
salary was £14,000, which he thought worked out at £1,100 a month after deductions but 
was uncertain because he would get commission on top. He also confirmed that his 
commission wasnt guaranteed and that he didnt have another  form of income.
The conversation moved  on to discuss  Mr Ts outgoings. Mr T explains that where  he lives 
with his parents,  he didnt  pay rent, council  tax, home insurance or contribute towards 
utilities. He told Amigo that he did pay £12 per month towards the TV licence  and Amigos  
representative asked  whether Mr T thought  the cost would go up over the next two years  
he didnt. He told Amigo that he paid £20 per month  towards internet and television services, 
which he expected  could increase to £25 over the next two years. Amigo  also asked whether 
Mr T thought his living arrangements were likely to change in that time and again, he didnt.
Amigo moved on to ask about  Mr Ts mobile phone expenses. Mr T said he paid £35 a 
month for his phone which  could go up by two pounds in the next two years. Amigos 
representative checked this answer against  credit  file information, which he said showed 
accounts with two mobile phone providers. Amigos representative clarified he could  see one 
balance of £105 and another balance of £41. Mr T explained he had two phones with one 
provider, one of which was for his work.  He added the other account with the £41 balance  
was due to end the following month, which was for a phone  that had broken.  Mr T confirmed 
the balance of £105 was for both his personal and work mobile phones but that he had 
cleared that balance. Mr T confirmed that £35 would cover his personal phone and £45 for 
his work  phone, so £80 a month in total over the next two years.
Amigo next asked  about Mr Ts food costs which he answered as £50 per month and 
confirmed would be enough to cover him for the next two years. Amigos representative 
confirmed the purpose  of the loan was to buy a car and asked  whether  Mr T would be taking 
insurance and what  it would cost. Mr T expected to pay £300 a year for insurance and to pay 
for it annually. He also expected to pay £180  a year for road tax. Mr T explained  he got a 
mileage allowance  at work that would cover most of his petrol  cost,  with him only needing to 
contribute £10 a month for his personal use. Mr T agreed his total monthly  travel  expenses 
would come to £60. Lastly, Mr T confirmed he had no childcare costs  and spent  £300  a year 
on clothing.
Amigos representative next looked  at the active credit accounts  showing on Mr Ts credit 
file, starting with his three credit cards  which were showing as all up to date. Mr T owed 
£1,903 on the first. He said he paid £43 and when  asked  how much would cover  his 
payments every month  going  forward, he answered  £45. But Amigos system didnt accept 
that figure,  suggesting  it was below the minimum payment. Mr T maintained  he paid a 
minimum payment of £43 but agreed  to £60 a month would  cover  his payments. He owed 
£320 on his second credit card,  with £30 a month covering his payments. He owed  £890  on 
his third credit card, with £50 a month  covering those payments.
Mr T owed  £923 on his overdraft, which he was charged £18 a month to use. Amigo  asked  
whether he floated in and out of his overdraft or whether  he was trying  to decrease it. Mr T 
explained his limit was £1,600, he didnt go over the limit and wanted to reduce it as and 
Ref: DRN71426209when he had money to do so. He agreed that £18 a month would  cover  his monthly charges 
over the next two years. Finally, Amigo checked whether Mr T had any other  expenses  and 
whether Mr T was aware  of anything that might change his level of income and outgoings.  
He said he didnt have  other expenses and was unaware of any changes.
Based on everything  Mr T had provided  during the application, Amigo calculated  that he 
would have £430 spare every month  after the new loan payment.  It thought  this left Mr T with 
enough spare income and so it agreed  to lend to Mr T.
The credit file Amigo relied on in its assessment showed that Mr T was using 51% of his 
revolving credit limit and owed £3,113 in total.  He had eight active credit  accounts, one of 
which was taken out in the previous six months,  and 23 settled accounts. It showed that on 
one credit card (with £1,903 outstanding), he had missed a payment  and brought  the 
account up to date two months later. This had been resolved 19 months  prior to his Amigo  
loan application  and there had been  no further  problems.  At around that same time on 
another credit card (with £890 outstanding), he had missed two payments and then brought 
the account up to date the following month  again resolved 19 months prior to his Amigo 
loan application  and there had been  no further  problems.
His credit  file showed Mr T had fallen  behind on one of his mobile  phone  accounts. It 
showed, except  for the six months prior to his Amigo loan application (which showed him 
paying on time), that over the previous three  years  the account  had run with one missed 
payment most months.
The credit file also showed Mr T had relied on advances against income (colloquially known 
as payday loans)  across  2011 and 2012 with the final one settled  in February 2013, after 
coming to an arrangement to repay  over 11 months. It also showed  had defaulted on a 
current account and that the account  was settled  in June 2009.
The copy  of Mr Ts credit  file from 2018 that he gave us showed  broadly the same  data as 
the credit  file used  by Amigo but gave some  extra detail  and spanned  beyond  the 2014  
application. The statements he gave for one of his current accounts (number ending  651) 
showed on both his and Amigos copy of the credit file  with his copy  showing a credit limit 
of £1,600 as he had said during the phone call. The March 2014 statement showed a salary 
credit of £977 and a closing balance of £923 overdrawn. The April 2014 statement showed  a 
salary credit  of £1,133,  his guarantor crediting the £4,000 Amigo loan funds and a closing 
balance of £654 overdrawn.
The other current account (number  ending 793) that he gave statements for didnt show 
on either his or Amigos copy of the credit  file. He gave statements covering 13 February  
until 12 May 2014. The March statement showed  the opening balance  in February was 
£1,399 overdrawn  and that month and at the end of that? month, the balance was still 
£1,399 overdrawn  with monies crediting the account (£201) covering amounts debited. It 
showed a £22 interest charge and two £6 charges for overdraft usage  one for arranged 
and one for unarranged  usage.  The April statement showed a closing balance £1,256 and 
the May statement showed  a closing balance £1,330. The statements showed transfers back 
and forth between both of Mr Ts current accounts.
Ref: DRN714262010Had Amigo carried out reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr T could 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
In addition to being borrower-focused, Amigos checks had to be proportionate to the specific  
circumstances of this loan application.
What constituted proportionate checks will depend on several  factors. For that reason, 
determining what this ought to have included  wasnt  an exact science. I noted Amigos offer 
to provide expert evidence of what checks looked like in the wider  marketplace at the time. 
But I didnt think Amigos view  even if it had consulted an expert   of typical practice  at the 
time was relevant  to my assessment of this complaint  which may have been why Amigo  
had chosen not to provide  it proactively in its business file. Insofar as industry practice was 
relevant to my findings, the DISP rules required me to reach  a fair and reasonable 
conclusion based,  amongst other things, on what I considered to be good industry practice.
However, many of the factors  relevant  to determining  what such  checks  would look like 
related to Mr Ts financial  circumstances  which included, though werent  necessarily 
limited to, his financial  history and outlook  along with his situation as it was, including  signs  
of financial difficulty.
There were,  of course, other factors that could have  been relevant when determining how 
detailed proportionate checks should  have been.  And while much would depend on the 
individual circumstances  in question,  the more obvious factors  included   though werent  
necessarily limited to  the type of credit  Mr T was applying for along  with the size, length  
and cost of the borrowing.
In general terms, therefore, I thought a fair starting  point  was that reasonable and 
proportionate checks ought to have  been  more thorough  when:
the customers income was lower   reflecting the possibility that it could  have been  more 
difficult to have  made the repayments  as a result;
the amount  repayable was higher  reflecting  the possibility that it could have  been  more 
difficult to have  met a higher repayment,  especially from a lower level of income;
the loan term was longer  reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  would likely 
to have been greater, thus prolonging the time over which repayments had to be made; 
and
there was repeated  borrowing,  especially  if it was frequent  and/or increased the duration 
which a customer was indebted   all of which reflected the risk that repeated refinancing 
might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
And as a result, I thought it followed that the circumstances in which it was reasonable to 
conclude that a less detailed affordability  assessment was reasonable and proportionate 
were more likely to be limited to applicants whose financial situation was stable and 
borrowing was relatively insignificant.
Mr T started  his application  for the loan online and then phoned Amigo shortly  afterwards  to 
discuss the application and complete an income  and expenditure assessment. I noted that 
Mr T had returned an electronically  signed  loan agreement before calling Amigo   the 
agreement said:
Ref: DRN714262011How and when credit will be provided: When we've signed this Agreement we'll open  a loan 
account in your name and will pay the money  into your Guarantor's bank  account  in line with 
the Terms & Conditions  of the Agreement
I also noted that Amigo signed  the agreement the day after its phone  call with Mr T  and so 
on balance, I thought that it hadnt  agreed  to lend until after it had checked Mr T could afford  
the loan repayments.
Amigos Checks:
Amigo said that it verified the information  provided  by an applicant in two ways using 
automated checks:
1.It used industry data  like information from a credit reference agency called Call Credit  
to compare and assess what  was disclosed as monthly income;  and
2.It used data from the ONS to compare and assess  declared  expenditure.
Amigo would  have  been aware  that CONC 5.3.1G (4)(b) says that it is not generally 
sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers  income and 
expenditure, on a statement of those  matters made by the customer.
With all the above  in mind, I carefully  listened to phone  call between Mr T and Amigo,  when 
it went through the income and expenditure assessment.  I was satisfied it was at this stage 
of Mr Ts application and using the information  gathered during this call that Amigo made its 
decision to lend.
The first point Amigo looked to find out was the source  of Mr Ts income over the duration of 
the loan and after learning what he did for a living, it asked for his monthly basic take home 
pay  ie without  any commission and after tax. Mr T sounded confident that his gross annual  
basic salary was £14,000. I couldnt  say he sounded as certain about what  this broke down 
to monthly after tax, having to do a rough calculation on the spot. And after several prompts  
from Amigo for the figure after tax, Mr T answers probably about £1,100 after tax.
Amigo had relied  heavily on its detailed statement of Mr Ts income and non-discretionary 
expenditure. I thought this meant Amigo placed  a lot of weight  on what Mr T told it via the 
online form and during the phone  call, rather than it having reviewed financial or bank 
statements. Given its dependence on Mr Ts verbal answers, it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable to ask Mr T to refer to (and possibly provide) documentation,  such as a 
payslip, for a more  reliable declaration  of take-home pay. I found it lacking that it was unable 
to calculate Mr Ts income using  his gross annual basic salary   the figure  he was confident 
of  and instead relied  on a rough estimate.
My own research showed numerous net salary calculators were available  online free of 
charge  again it wouldnt have been unreasonable to signpost Mr T to such  a tool or use 
one itself to get a more accurate answer. My research  showed that in the tax year 2014/15, 
a single person  under  65 earning a £14,000  gross  annual salary could expect to take home 
£1,040 a month.
Amigo said it verified Mr Ts income using a service provided by Transunion  (formerly Call 
Credit) and this service  used a number of data points to assess whether the income  
provided was reasonable and realistic for his living situation. But Amigo hadnt  provided  us 
with a breakdown  of the data it got in April 2014 nor an explanation of what  it shows  and why 
Ref: DRN714262012it enabled Amigo to rely on Mr Ts declarations. It wasnt clear  for example  how close  to 
the industry and national  averages Mr Ts declared  income and expenditure were,  and what  
level of confidence  Amigo was able to attach  to Mr Ts declarations, based on the data it 
saw. So, I didnt feel able to place much weight  on Amigos checks and could not conclude 
that its checks were sufficient.
However, when I looked at what proportionate checks wouldve shown, I could see from 
Mr Ts March and April 2014 bank statements that there  were  salary credits of £977 and 
£1,133 respectively  an average of £1,055  and broadly in line the £1,100 he declared. So, 
in this case and in Mr Ts circumstances, I didnt  find the shortcomings on Amigos part in 
establishing his income was material to its decision to lend.
Amigo said that it used  national averages  to verify  Mr Ts expenditure. But national averages 
were based  on the finances of the average  individual. Mr T lived with his parents, he didnt 
pay rent, council tax, home insurance  or contribute towards utilities, yet he was also seeking 
access to a sub-prime credit product. So, his circumstances significantly depart from those 
of the average  individual. And as the monthly  loan repayment of £247 would commit a 
significant amount  of Mr Ts take home pay, I thought it needed to do more than just validate 
his spending against that of an average  individual.  I said this because an average  individual  
on a similar  income may have found  committing such  an amount unaffordable  given their 
other outgoings. So, I thought Amigo would have been better to distinguish  Mr Ts 
expenditure from that of an average individual  and satisfy itself he had sufficient capacity to 
sustain this level of repayment over the term of the loan.
Again, Amigo made much  of the detailed nature of its income  and expenditure assessment 
and I agreed it had a fairly lengthy conversation with Mr T. But I disagreed  probing  Mr T 
several times on whether he thought his £12 a month TV licence payment would increase 
over the following two years added  as much value as Amigo sought to rely on. Considerable 
scrutiny of this item of expenditure could be contrasted with Amigos ready acceptance that 
Mr T would spend only £50 a month  less than £2 a day  on food over next two years. The 
absence of salient  explanation on the data that sits behind Amigos checks made it difficult to 
assess the validity of its results and, in turn, determine how meaningful its verification was at 
the time of agreeing this loan.
I didnt think it was unreasonable  of Amigo to expect applicants   including  Mr T  to be 
honest about their financial circumstances when  applying for a loan. But to go further than 
this and rely heavily  on an applicants declaration in the way Amigo  appeared to have done 
on this occasion  did run the risk of it overlooking its responsibility to properly scrutinise the 
information provided. With all of that being the case,  I referred to Mr Ts bank statements to 
see how close his actual  spending was to that he declared  and in turn to determine  
whether any shortcomings in Amigos  approach to verification were material  to the decision 
to lend.
Having done so, I didnt find any discrepancies that would materially affect Amigos  decision  
to lend. I said this because after accounting for Mr Ts non-discretionary spending  
including repayments  to his open-ended credit accounts (greater  than that used by Amigo) 
that would  enable him to repay  those  debts within a reasonable period of time  he was still 
left with enough funds to support the proposed loan commitment.  For example, his March 
statement showed Mr T spending £99 at petrol stations and on train tickets  significantly 
more than the £60 personal travel expenses he declared (and I couldnt  see whether his 
employer reimbursed him). But with £430 spare after the proposed loan repayment  and 
Ref: DRN714262013non-discretionary spending, I was satisfied that more thorough  checks  would most likely 
have told Amigo that he could still afford  the loan.
His statements also showed four payments a month to mobile phone providers, but he only 
declared (and his credit  file only showed) three  such commitments.  I was unclear as to why 
the fourth  didnt show, there could be many reasons, for example the supply contract 
couldve been in another persons  name.  And of course, not all mobile  phone  services are 
supplied via a credit agreement. Amigo did ask Mr T whether he had other commitments it 
needed to include  in its assessment, and he said he didnt. But still, despite  potentially 
understating the amount  he spent  on mobile  phones each month,  in Mr Ts case, the level of 
disposable income meant I was still persuaded he could afford the loan.
What did Mr Ts credit  file show?
Amigo completed its income and expenditure assessment  alongside a review of Mr Ts credit 
file. Mr Ts credit  file showed he had historical problems repaying his credit  commitments 
and had also relied on high cost, short-term  credit in the past.  For example, he had fallen 
behind with payments  on two of his credit card accounts in the two years preceding his loan 
application. But these  were quickly brought up-to-date, and Mr T had maintained them 
without further  problems in the 18 months leading up to his loan application. It also showed 
he had defaulted  on a current account and that the account was settled in June 2009  
some five years earlier. So, although there was evidence that Mr T had had financial 
difficulties in the past, I didnt think they indicated a material impact  on Mr Ts current 
position that wouldve suggested it was irresponsible to lend.
From the credit  file I could  see that Mr T had relied  on advances against  income  across  2011 
and 2012 with the final one settled in February  2013, after an arrangement to repay over 
11 months. It also showed Mr T had fallen  behind on one of his mobile  phone  accounts, with 
one missed payment  most months over the previous  three years. Again, this had been 
brought up-to-date and the account had run without further problems in the 6 months leading 
up to his loan application. While these did suggest Mr T had more recent problems 
managing his finances  and this may have been a further reason why it wouldve been 
proportionate to seek evidence of Mr Ts income and expenditure  on balance, I didnt think 
they indicated  that, by the time he sought this loan from Amigo,  Mr T would have found 
himself unable to repay the Amigo loan he had applied for. So, I was persuaded it was 
reasonable for Amigo to lend.
Mr T gave  us a copy of his credit  file from 2018,  covering the previous six years. Although  
I didnt place any weight  on the data from after Mr Ts application  because  it was 
immaterial to Amigos decision  to lend  I did take comfort  from seeing his financial position 
continue to improve without further repayment problems after his loan started. I also took 
comfort seeing  that he could  repay his Amigo loan by refinancing  to a more mainstream (and 
not guarantor  loan)  lender at a much lower cost.
What Mr Ts credit  file didnt show?
Mr T had another current account (number ending 793) that wasnt showing on either his 
or Amigos copy of the credit file. I listened  to what Amigo  said about had it been  aware  of 
the second account, it would have taken it into account when assessing affordability and still 
considered the loan affordable. That might  have been a fair conclusion  to reach. However, 
against the backdrop of the data it could see on Mr Ts credit file, together  with what  it would  
Ref: DRN714262014have seen had it conducted more detailed  checks on his income  and expenditure, I didnt 
think reviewing this account was material to the lending decision in this case.
Responses to My Provisional  Decision
Amigo acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but it didnt have anything to add.
Mr T disagreed with my provisional decision.  In summary, he maintains that had Amigo  
asked for copies of his bank statements, it wouldnt have  lent to him. He said that the checks 
Amigo ran on his credit history failed to show the true level of his indebtedness, something a 
bank statement would  have shown. He believes he didnt need  to answer Amigos  questions  
accurately during the telephone assessment, given it didnt check his answers against bank 
statements. Mr T reminded me of his substantial credit card and overdraft balances,  adding 
that the Amigo loan worsened his financial position.
My Findings
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence and arguments,  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible  and unaffordable 
lending on our website.  Having taken this into account along with everything else I need  to 
consider, including the responses to my provisional decision, my decision remains 
unchanged and I do not uphold this complaint.
 
I realise Mr T might be disappointed.  But I hope my explanation helps him to understand 
how Ive arrived at my conclusion.
Under the legal  and regulatory framework Ive set out above,  Amigo had to lend responsibly. 
This meant that it had to reasonably assess whether Mr T could afford to meet the loan 
repayments in a sustainable way over the terms of the loan agreements  in question.
As Ive said before, the FCA didnt specify what level of detail such an assessment might
require  nor did it set out how such an assessment needed to be carried out in practice.
Instead, it said that the necessary level of detail when carrying  out a requisite assessment
would depend  on the risk to the borrower  relative  to the borrowers financial situation 
though it wouldnt  necessarily be limited to that.
Mr T feels strongly  that Amigo should have requested his bank statements before agreeing 
to lend to him. As part of our assessment  of Mr Ts complaint, we asked  for his bank 
statements to help understand  his financial position at the time he applied for the loan, which 
had happened  several years  earlier.  They could  give valuable information to this aim, given 
the time that had passed. So, I can appreciate why Mr T feels  Amigo should  have  done  the 
same at the time. But there isnt a specific requirement on Amigo  to obtain bank statements 
before agreeing to lend. 
This being so, Amigo would have been  aware that CONC 5.3.1G (4)(b) says that it is not 
generally sufficient  for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers  income and 
expenditure, on a statement of those  matters made by the customer. I set out my reasons 
as to why it wouldve been proportionate  to seek evidence of Mr Ts income  and expenditure 
in my provisional decision.  As neither Amigo nor Mr T dispute  my provisional  findings, I see 
no need to repeat them here or to depart from the conclusions I reached.  
Ref: DRN714262015I note Mr T now believes he didnt need  to answer  Amigos questions  accurately  
I disagree. I still think it was reasonable of Amigo to expect applicants   including  Mr T  to 
be honest about their financial  circumstances when  applying  for a loan. I also still think that 
Amigo needed to have done more  to assess the validity of the answers given.
I carefully thought  about what Mr T has said about his credit  card and overdraft balances, 
and how the Amigo  loan worsened his financial position. The copy of his credit  file Mr T gave 
us doesnt show  a worsening of his financial position  in fact it shows the opposite. And as 
I said in my provisional decision, I take comfort from seeing his financial position continued 
to improve without further repayment problems  after his loan had started. I also take comfort 
seeing that he could repay his Amigo loan by refinancing to a more mainstream (and not 
guarantor loan)  lender  at a much lower  cost.
For reasons Ive already explained,  while I think Amigo could have done more  at the time 
of the application  to satisfy itself Mr T was able to sustainably repay this loan, reviewing all 
the information we have  about Mr Ts circumstances from that time shows if proportionate 
checks had been  carried out by Amigo, it would  still have  been reasonable to lend to Mr T at 
that time.  
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  given  above, Ive decided I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint and make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142620