K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that NewDay  Ltd incorrectly told him that he was eligible for a 0% balance  
transfer rate on his credit card.
background
Mr R holds a credit card account with NewDay. In April 2019, he emailed it to check  whether 
any balance transfer  offers  were available. It emailed him back that he was eligible for 0% 
interest on a balance transfer  for six months.  He phoned in to take up this offer (so that he 
could transfer  money  over from another card)  but was then told that it wasnt in fact 
available. He says NewDay  agreed to call him back about this, but never did. So he raised  a 
complaint.
In response, NewDay said Mr R wasnt entitled  to the 0% balance transfer rate. It admitted 
that its email had mis-informed him about this, and credited £10 to his account to apologise.  
Unhappy with this, Mr R referred the matter to us. He wanted £50 to cover  his call costs, 
stress, and the interest incurred on his other card due to not getting  the 0% rate. 
When our investigator reviewed this complaint, she explained to Mr R that he hadnt lost out 
on the balance  transfer offer as it wasnt available to him in the first place. And she 
considered the £10 offer was fair compensation for what had happened.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators  view. He said NewDays  email  about the balance 
transfer offer showed it had made a mistake. And when he phoned in, it kept him on hold 
and then didnt  call him back as promised. He reiterated that £10 didnt cover his interest,  
time or call costs. So his case  has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Mr R would be entitled to a remedy from NewDay if, for example, there were evidence  of 
loss as a result of its breach of contract and/or negligence. 
Breach of contract
However, I cant see there was ever a valid contractual  agreement  for NewDay  to provide 
Mr R with a 0% balance transfer facility.  In law, a valid contract only exists where there is a 
meeting of minds  and consideration from both parties. Importantly, a trader who advertises 
goods or services  on certain terms and conditions is not usually in fact making  an offer but 
merely an invitation  to treat. In other words, its the customer who makes the offer by 
responding to the invitation  by indicating a willingness to purchase goods or services at the 
advertised price or terms. There is only a binding contract once the trader accepts the 
customers offer and theres  a genuine meeting of minds and mutual consideration, e.g. in 
return for paying X the trader  agrees to supply  Y. Its a common  misapprehension that a 
seller is bound by the advertised price even if its only an honest  error. Whilst many retailers 
may honour  mispriced goods for commercial  reasons and goodwill, there  is in fact no legal 
or equitable obligation to do so. 
Ref: DRN76575062Applying these fundamental principles about the formation of contracts to the circumstances 
of this case, it seems  to me that NewDay isnt bound by what  now appears to have been  just 
an erroneous invitation to treat. The offer actually came from Mr R when he phoned to take 
up the invitation. But there was no subsequent  meeting of minds  (or binding contract for this 
service) because NewDay realised its mistake in timeand, accordingly, declined the offer 
to contract  on those terms. It therefore  didnt act in breach  of any contract, so isnt liable for 
any actual or perceived consequences of Mr R not having the 0% facility.  
Mr R says he paid more  interest on another credit card because  he couldnt make  use of the 
0% balance transfer rate. But the 0% rate wasnt actually  available  at the time of his enquiry. 
NewDay has provided internal records to show  that this rate was a promotion which expired 
in February 2019.  I appreciate that NewDays email said it was available  until June 2019,  but 
the internal records  show this was clearly a mistake. I therefore dont consider it fair or 
reasonable to instruct  NewDay to honour this rate. 
Negligence and causation
Even if theres no contract  (or breach of contract), a party can still be liable for the 
reasonably foreseeable consequences of their negligence  when  they owe a duty of care to 
someone (as a credit-card provider owes to its customers or potential customers).  And that 
can include  any economic  loss suffered as a result  of negligent misstatements, such as a 
misleading promotion or email response. 
NewDay does accept  that it accidentally mis-informed Mr R about the rate. And in principle I 
accept that this was negligent, as such firms do have a statutory duty to provide  information 
that is clear,  fair and not misleading. But even if it hadnt made  this errori.e. if it had told 
Mr R from the start that no promotional  rates were available he  wouldve still needed to pay 
any interest contractually due on his other  card or seek alternative 0% arrangements  through 
other providers. I dont consider this to be an economic  loss caused by any error on 
NewDays part. Fundamental to any successful claim  in negligence is evidence of loss or 
damage. If the damages claimed werent reasonably foreseeable at the point of breach, 
were too remote from the breach, or were more directly caused by some  other  circumstance 
(such as an intervening  or pre-existing act), then the negligent party  isnt legally  responsible 
despite his breach of duty, so cant fairly  be ordered  to provide a remedy. The law on 
causation limits the liability of wrongdoers to only those consequences which wouldnt have 
happened but for their negligence, breach  of statutory duty, etc.
Distress and inconvenience  
I have to take account of the law but am not bound by itbecause our enabling  statute and 
rules say we ultimately decide cases on the basis of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So, although theres no legal right to compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience with regard to a contract thats neither for pleasure nor peace of mind,  our 
rules do allow such awards  where  were  satisfied a complainant has been put to trouble and 
upset by a firms wrongful  acts or omissions.   
  
Mr R has told us that NewDays  error caused him stress. And that he spent time and money 
calling to try and claim the offer. So Ive considered the impact  this situation had on Mr R  
to decide whether more compensation is due.
It seems  that Mr Rs call with NewDay lasted around 30 minutes. Thats what  he told it when 
he complained:  
Ref: DRN76575063I was kept on the phone  for about 25-30 mins  only to be told this offer was not 
available. This wasted my time 
Its also what he told us when we first took on the case:
[I] was kept on the phone for 30 mins, only to be told this offer was not available.
Mr R hasnt been able to provide any information about how much this call cost him. He says 
he wouldve been  able to do so if wed asked him earlier. But its not our responsibility to 
substantiate Mr Rs case; thats down to him. Ultimately, I cant  quantify his call costs. So 
I cant reasonably conclude that the £10 offered is unfair.
I appreciate that it was upsetting for Mr R to find out that the rate he wanted  wasnt  available. 
Its also unclear what happened  with the follow-up call he says he was promised. But the 
quotations Ive set out above suggest that Mr R left the call understanding  that the 0% rate 
wasnt available. That limits the impact of the error. Once it was clear that the rate wasnt  
available, Mr R couldve pursued  balance  transfer  options with other credit card companies.  
Ultimately, even when  a business makes  a mistake, Id only award compensation if the 
impact on its customer went beyond minor trouble or upset. For the reasons set out above,  
I do consider the impact  to have been limited in this instance.  So, taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied that the £10 NewDay has already  paid is sufficient to address any 
distress, inconvenience  and call costs Mr R incurred because of its error  and is in line with 
awards weve previously made  in similar cases.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7657506