K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 2 loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr T between June 2014 and 
September 2014. A summary of Mr Ts borrowing history is set out below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 04/06/2014 08/08/2014 1 £300.00 £352.50
2 16/09/2014 07/08/2015 6 £750.00 £350.00
The table above shows Mr T took out a mix of a payday loan (loan 1) which was repayable 
within 9 days and an instalment loan (loan  2) payable over 6 months.
Mr T said that he had other  payday lending and he was struggling with his priority bills. He 
says he got stuck in a cycle of payday  loans. He has told us Mr Lender didnt do proper 
affordability checks, lending him over £700.00  when his wages were only just over 
£1,000.00. Hes also told us that he was getting  charged for unpaid direct  debits and had to 
borrow money from friends and family for food most months and to pay back  his debts.  He 
says he was eventually  evicted from his home.
In its final response to Mr T, Mr Lender  said it carried  out credit  checks  as well as income 
and expenditure  checks  before lending to him. It said Mr T had no accounts in default  three  
years before the applications and there was no evidence of bankruptcy  on the credit file. The 
credit check  also showed  Mr T had no other outstanding short-term  loans. It said the checks  
carried out were proportionate to the loan amounts and the result  of the checks  showed  no 
evidence of financial difficulty. It also said Mr T made payments for the first two instalments 
on time for loan 2 before he failed to meet his repayment obligation when he came  to repay 
the third instalment. Mr Lender referred  to the agreed repayment plan with interest  frozen 
showing it supported  Mr T when he needed  it. Mr T made repayments  before settling the full 
amount on 7 August 2015.  So, Mr Lender  said it did not believe it acted irresponsibly. It did 
not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Our adjudicator said she hadnt seen enough to uphold  loan 1 but she said she thought loan 
2 represented  a significant proportion  of Mr Ts income and there  was a significant risk that 
Mr T wouldnt have  been  able to meet his commitments without having to borrow again. She 
said this loan shouldnt  have been  given.  Later  she clarified that although the loan 
repayments were lower for the second loan the commitment was greater as it was to be 
repaid over a longer period. 
Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint was passed to me. It said the repayments on loan 2 
were of a decreasing amount,  dropping  to £160.00  for Mr Ts final repayment. And it said 
that although the adjudicator had found there was a significant risk, it said this was a 
subjective statement  and should rather be based on facts not assumptions.
Mr T did not agree  he said he had various  other short-term loans at the time and that he 
was in a cycle of borrowing so that he had to borrow from friends and family to survive.  As 
the parties are not in agreement the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN70412842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Having done so Ive decided  to uphold 
Mr Ts complaint about loan 2.
When Mr Lender  gave  loan 1 it would have more  likely appeared that the loan was 
affordable for Mr T. Mr Lender says it carried out a number of checks  but at this point, I think  
it was entitled  to rely on what Mr T had told them. I dont think it needed to take steps to 
Ref: DRN70412843verify Mr Ts information, given that it was early  on in the lending relationship. Mr T says he 
was in a cycle of debt but I dont think its likely Mr Lenders checks would have highlighted 
this and it wouldnt have  likely known  about  Mr Ts financial problems at this point.  So, I cant 
say Mr Lender did anything wrong when it provided loan 1 to Mr T. 
But when Mr Lender gave  Mr T loan 2, the requested amount was for much larger borrowing 
of £750.00. The first repayment of £350.00 was the first and largest  repayment  Mr T was 
required to make under the agreement. Ive had a look at how loan was structured and 
thinking about this, although  the loan tapered and the repayments  became lower, the first 
repayment should have been  the amount Mr Lender  considered in order to assess whether 
the loan was affordable and whether it should lend.  In my view at the outset the amount due 
to repay  the loan represented a significant proportion  of Mr Ts income as did the agreed 
repayments for the next two instalments. By this time, I think  Mr Lender ought  to have 
realised the loan repayments werent  sustainable.  I dont think Mr T could repay this loan in a 
sustainable manner.  So, I uphold Mr Ts complaint about loan 2.
In addition, I would point out, although it doesnt  form part of my decision, that Ive thought 
about the fact that Mr T had already been  struggling to repay the first loan within the timeline  
set out in the loan agreement. He took two months to repay loan 1, when he should have 
repaid it in 9 days. 
Ive also explained  above that even if a loan may appear affordable on a pounds and pence 
basis it doesnt necessarily mean  that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings.
On balance I think there was likely a significant risk that Mr T wouldnt have been able to 
meet his commitments  under the terms of the credit agreement for loan 2 because  the 
agreed repayments represented  a significant proportion of Mr Ts income. As it transpired, 
Mr T was unable  to meet  his third instalment repayment for loan 2. So, I think  Mr Lender  
ought to have realised that it was unlikely Mr T would have been unable to sustainably meet 
his monthly repayments  for this loan.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 2 and Mr Lender should  put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Mr T loan 2. I understand  this loan has now been repaid. To 
put things right Mr Lender should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN70412844remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Mr Ts credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Ts complaint.  PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7041284