K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim she made 
on her buildings  insurance policy following an escape of water  at her home.
background
In November 2017 Miss O discovered  a leak under her kitchen sink. She had this fixed, but a 
few months later when  she lifted the tiles she noticed there had been damage caused  to the 
kitchen floor. 
By the time this was discovered Miss O was no longer insured by Admiral.  So she made  a 
claim to her current  insurer  at the time, but it declined it. It said the extent of the damage  
showed it had happened over a considerable period of time, and before her insurance with it 
had started in early  November 2017.  It advised  she raise  a claim with Admiral,  as the leak 
must have  started  when  she had a policy with it. 
Admiral declined the claim on the basis that she had cover  with another  insurer  when the 
cause of the damage was discovered. So it said that insurer  should be responsible for the 
damage. So Miss O brought  her complaint to our service.
Ive already issued  a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I said:
I dont accept Admirals argument  that because the damage was discovered after its 
policy ended,  it shouldnt be responsible for any repairs needed. Miss Os policy 
covers her for damage that has occurred  when the policy  is in force  due to an insured 
event. So I consider that Admiral is responsible for any damage that occurred before 
the policy ended in early November 2017.
The damage was assessed by Miss Os new insurer in January 2018. The assessor 
thought the damage had been  happening over a long period of time. He said the floor 
boards were  rotten and the floor joist was crumbling  and also rotten. The assessor  
didnt say how long he thought the damage had been occurring for, but said it was 
likely the damage  had started  before  November  2017 - when Admiral was Miss Os 
insurer.
That seems  reasonable  to me. Miss O knew there  was some damage in late 
November 2017  when the leak was discovered. She said part of the floor was flaking 
near where  the leak had happened. So it seems both her and the assessor agree  
there was already some rot in at the end of November, which suggests the leak had 
been ongoing for some time.
So it follows  that some  of the damage  must have happened when Admiral provided 
cover to Miss O. And Miss Os new insurer isnt responsible for repairing this 
damage. The key date here isnt when  the damage was discovered, as our 
investigator said, but when the damage  occurred.  
The difficulty  also comes in assessing  how much Admiral should pay in settlement of 
the claim.  As Ive said above,  Admiral is responsible for the cost of repairing any 
damage that occurred  under its policy. If it can distinguish and separate  that damage  
from the damage that occurred after it stopped  insuring  the property, and if that 
Ref: DRN78211472damage can be repaired without need  to repair the previous damage, then it can limit 
its liability to the cost of those repairs.  
But if it cant distinguish and separate the damage its liable for from the damage the 
new insurer  is liable for. Or if it cant repair its damage without also repairing the 
subsequent damage, then our longstanding  position  is that the fair and reasonable 
outcome is for it to pay the cost of repairing all of the damage.  It can then seek a 
contribution from Miss Os new insurer if it wishes. 
At this stage Im going to work on the assumption  that Admiral  wont  be able to 
separate the insured  damage from the non-insured damage and/or wouldnt have 
been able to repair the insured damage without repairing the non-insured damage. 
So Im currently minded to direct  Admiral to settle Miss Os claim in full, subject to the 
terms of the policy.
The parties should however note that Im also currently considering a similar 
complaint that Miss O brought against  her new insurer.  If I reach  a similar 
conclusion in relation to that complaint, I wont ask both insurers  to settle  Miss Os 
claims in full. So I might end up asking each insurer to pay a proportion of the claim 
(so that ultimately  Miss O will receive full settlement of her claim).
I understand in response to our investigators  view, Miss O has said she suffered loss 
of rent from a lodger  due to the repairs. Admiral  hasnt had a chance  to look into this 
before, but at the moment Im not minded to award any compensation for this. I cant  
see that Miss O has shown she suffered a loss because of Admiral not dealing with 
the claim.  
Miss O accepted the provisional decision.  She said she no longer wanted to pursue the loss 
of rent element as it would  be difficult for her to show  her loss.
Admiral said Miss Os new insurer isnt able to confirm when the damage  was actually 
caused  so it cant confirm it definitely did happen  before November.  It also said Miss O had 
reported water coming in from a drain,  and this wouldnt be covered under the policy. It also 
said Miss O had a previous claim for damage to a bathroom caused by an escape of water.  
It said the quote she provided also mentioned rotten timbers needed to be replaced in her 
kitchen. So it wanted confirmation that Miss O had these works completed  as it thought she 
could be claiming  again for the same  damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Miss Os new insurer  cant prove  that any damage happened  before November 
2017. But Ive already  outlined in my provisional decision why I think its more likely  than not 
that some  damage did occur before this time,  and so should be covered by Miss Os 
previous policy  with Admiral. Admiral  hasnt provided me with anything  which  has made me 
doubt this, so I see no reason to alter my finding on this point.
When the damage to Miss Os kitchen was reported, it was found that there  had been a 
number of leaks which had affected  the kitchen  including one possibly from a drain from 
the kitchen. Even if I accept Admirals point that this wouldnt  be covered by the policy, Im 
Ref: DRN78211473satisfied from the reports  Ive seen that Miss Os kitchen suffered another  leak that caused 
damage which is covered  by the policy. So I dont think Admiral  can decline the claim for 
this. 
Ive looked at the information Admiral has provided in relation  to the previous claim. The 
claim was for a downstairs bathroom that adjoins the kitchen in Miss Os property. The 
majority of the quote is for the works that needed to be done to repair  the bathroom. But the 
quote does also include repairs to damaged floor joists in the kitchen. Having considered  
everything, I dont think its likely Miss O is claiming  for the same  damage twice. Admiral  has 
said she should provide evidence she had those original repairs done.  But I dont think    
Miss O needs to provide anything further.  
Ive seen photos of her bathroom from when she made her claim, they show the floorboards  
being lifted, and theres  another photo  showing rotten wood in the garden that had been 
thrown away. So Im satisfied on balance that Miss O did have the work carried out to her 
bathroom. And I think its likely that any kitchen  joist that were damaged and repaired during 
this claim are not the same as the damage that happened later in the kitchen. I say this 
because Miss O has also provided an invoice for the repairs she had to her kitchen. So Im 
satisfied that she has paid for repairs to be done  and the damage happened  separately to 
the previous claim.
Based on the above, I still think Admiral is responsible for covering some  of the damage,  as 
well as the new insurer. Neither insurer can determine how much damage was caused under 
each policy. And to assess this would likely  take some time,  which  would delay things further 
for Miss O. So I think the fair and reasonable way to resolve the claim is for Admiral to pay 
50% of the invoice  Miss O has provided, with Miss Os new insurer paying  the other 50%. 
The invoice is for £2,589.06. So in order to settle  the claim Admiral needs  to pay £1,294.53.  
It should also add 8% interest  on to this figure from the date of the invoice (11 Feb 2018) 
until the date of settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Miss O £1,294.53 
to settle her claim. It should also add interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the 
invoice, until the date of settlement.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited  to take off tax from 
this interest. Admiral Insurance Company Limited  must give Miss O a certificate  showing 
how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN7821147