K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that they were given incorrect advice when looking to move to a new 
home and as a result  had to pay an early repayment  charge (ERC)  that theyd been told 
theyd be able to avoid. The advice was provided  by Meridian (Leicester) Limited  which is an 
appointed representative of Mortgage  Advice  Bureau Limited  (MAB).  For clarity Ill just refer 
to MAB in my decision.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage that they took out a mortgage in March 2017. This mortgage 
had a fixed interest rate for five years which meant that if they repaid their mortgage within 
those five years, theyd  have to pay an ERC. Their mortgage did allow them  to request to 
port the mortgage to a new property,  subject to lending criteria.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B began looking for a new property and in April 2018 signed a 
reservation form with a developer to purchase a new build property  which gave an 
expected completion  date of December 2018.  MAB gave them advice about their mortgage  
needs in relation to this new property.
Initially MAB recommended  that Mr and Mrs B port their existing mortgage, which had an 
outstanding balance of approximately £89,500, to the new property as doing so would mean  
they were not required to pay the ERC, while extending the overall  term to 30 years. And it 
recommended that the additional borrowing they needed to complete the purchase, 
approximately £28,500, also be taken over 30 years, with the same lender.
Mr and Mrs B proceeded with the application, and instructed solicitors  while also agreeing  
the sale of their existing  property. The sale was to happen first with Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage being repaid. Theyd  then be moving  into their new home  at a later date  with a 
new mortgage being put in place, a portion of which would be on the same terms as their 
existing mortgage  deal.
In June 2018, shortly  before the sale of their property was due to complete, their solicitors 
got in touch to say that the amount  the lender was requesting to repay the existing mortgage 
was more than first thought. This was because an ERC was being charged. It came to light 
at that point that, because the new property wasnt  being bought at the same time as the first 
property was being sold, the ERC would have to be paid and a refund claimed later.  Mr and 
Mrs B raised concerns with MAB as theyd been  told they wouldnt have to pay an ERC. 
They then also became aware around that time that they actually would not qualify for a 
refund of the ERC.  
MAB then recommended  an alternative  mortgage   including  borrowing  additional  money to 
cover the ERC. This no longer involved porting their old mortgage deal. It recommended  that 
all of the borrowing  now be on the same fixed rate of interest for five years,  with the 
mortgage term overall still 30 years. MAB recommended staying with the same lender.
Mr and Mrs B complained to MAB that they were given incorrect  information about the ERC 
by the adviser,  as they were initially  told no ERC would be payable.  They  were  also 
unhappy, after this came to light; the adviser  just recommended staying with the same  
lender for convenience even though that wasnt the best available deal.
MAB acknowledged that its adviser made an error.  It said the adviser  shouldve  been aware 
the ERC  would be payable.  It apologised for this and offered £300 for providing misleading 
Ref: DRN70529672information. However it said, due to how the transaction was being carried  out, the ERC 
would always have  been payable. So while incorrect information was given, as the charge 
could not be avoided MAB did not think it should pay it. Regarding the mortgage 
recommended after this problem came to light, MAB  said it had made Mr and Mrs B aware 
that there  were marginally cheaper  alternatives available with other  lenders. But as a new 
application, through another  lender,  could  take time Mr and Mrs B had decided to stay with 
the existing lender. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Mrs B asked our service to look into the complaint. An 
adjudicator considered what  had happened. She agreed MAB had given Mr and Mrs B 
incorrect information. But she felt that it was likely the ERC and associated  costs wouldve 
always been incurred.  So she thought the offer of £300 for the misleading information  given, 
was fair. She also thought the information  provided  showed that Mr and Mrs B had been 
made aware  that there  were cheaper  options  available with other lenders but that theyd 
chosen to proceed  with the existing lender. 
Mr and Mrs B did not agree with the adjudicators view. They  said the adviser  had clearly  
said they wouldnt have  to pay the ERC, which was wrong, so they thought  this should be 
refunded They also said if theyd known theyd have  to pay an ERC, and that MAB would 
just recommend a mortgage with their existing  lender, they couldve applied for this directly. 
They say they only used the adviser  because the developer recommended  them.  And they 
mentioned they felt the adviser having  allowed them to complete the sale of their house  
without the new mortgage offer being in place was evidence of the poor level of advice. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion  the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that MABs adviser,  made  an error regarding the ERC. MAB  accepts  they 
failed to understand the lenders criteria for where this would be avoided  that the 
transaction needed to be completed  within three months. And I can see that they gave Mr 
and Mrs B incorrect information about  this, which led them to think  they wouldnt have to pay 
an ERC. What is left for me to decide  is what the fair way to address that mistake  is.
Where a business has made an error  we aim to put consumers back in, or as close  as 
possible, to the position  theyd have been  in had the error not occurred. Here  that would  be 
the position theyd be in if they werent given incorrect information. Mr and Mrs B say they 
should be refunded the ERC  as they were told they wouldnt have to pay it. But Im not sure 
thats the position they wouldve been in. Had they been correctly told the ERC  would  be 
payable, they wouldnt have been  left disappointed when it did need  to be paid.  But they 
may still have needed to pay it. 
The lenders  criteria regarding porting  mortgages,  which applied  to the existing mortgage  Mr 
and Mrs B had, are clear. They say if a new mortgage is entered into within three  months of 
the date the lender discharges  the old mortgage, it may refund the ERC. So in order for Mr 
and Mrs B to avoid paying the ERC the purchase of their new house  wouldve had to 
complete within  at most three months  of their old house. Ive thought about what  they 
wouldve done if MAB had correctly explained  this to them.
Ref: DRN70529673Their old house  sold in June 2018 and I understand the purchase of the new property finally  
completed in January  2019. So the lender  declined  to refund the ERC charged after the 
previous mortgage  was discharged when  their old house sold.  
In order for the ERC not to be payable at all, the sales wouldve needed to complete at the 
same time. Their new house  was a new build property, so they couldnt complete the 
purchase until it was ready,  so couldnt  bring the date forward.  So theyd have needed  to 
delay the sale of their old property  until the new property was ready. And that wouldve come  
with significant  risks. The buyer couldve  pulled out due to a delay. And Mr and Mrs B may 
not have been able to find another buyer,  either at all or willing to pay the same  amount, 
before they had to complete on their new home. And any such delay was also likely to have 
resulted in additional costs.
Alternatively for the ERC to still be paid but be refunded, the sale of the old property and 
purchase of the new wouldve needed  to happen within  three months. Again the completion 
date on the new build  property couldnt  have been moved forward as it was dependent  on 
the property being finished - and was also subject  to potential delay. The date of completion 
given in the reservation agreement is described as provisional and subject to change.  And 
the agreement  acknowledges that the developer will not be responsible for any costs arising 
from a delay. So even  if Mr and Mrs B had delayed the sale to within  three months of the 
provisional completion date, there wouldve still been the possibility the purchase wouldve 
been delayed  (as seems  to have happened) and the ERC still wouldve been  non-
refundable. And again, delaying the sale of their house at all wouldve presented the same  
potential risks and costs Ive already mentioned.
I appreciate the ERC was a lot of money  to have to pay unexpectedly. But I think  if Mr and 
Mrs B had been told the ERC would have  to be paid unless they took one of the potentially  
risky options  Ive mentioned, that could  also have led to them incurring  additional costs,  
theyd have gone ahead with the transaction as it unfolded and agreed to pay the charge.
Ive also thought about whether they may have  pulled out of the purchase altogether  and 
tried to find an alternative property. But this wouldve  meant  missing  out on a property they 
were keen on. And again this couldve resulted in additional costs - breaking the reservation 
with the developer, further application  / valuation fees, increased  legal costs etc. So again I 
think its more likely  that theyd have still gone ahead with the purchase  and incurred the 
ERC, if theyd been given  correct information. It just wouldnt have been unexpected.
So with that in mind, on balance  I think the position Mr and Mrs B wouldve been in had they 
been given correct information about the ERC is that they wouldve  paid it. So I dont think  I 
can reasonably  ask MAB to refund it. They would however not have been  put to the trouble 
of having to change their mortgage plans or had the upset  of finding out about this charge 
late in the process.  And I agree MAB  should  pay compensate them  for this. But I think  the 
offer of £300 MAB  has made is a fair way to address this.
Turning to the advice provided to Mr and Mrs B after it came  to light that the ERC would 
need to be paid, I dont think MAB has done  anything wrong.
When it became apparent  that the ERC  would  have to be paid  so porting was no longer 
required  Id have  expected MAB to consider the options now available and make a suitable  
recommendation to Mr and Mrs B. MAB  has provided evidence of research it did into the 
options available to Mr and Mrs B. It recommended that they take a five year fixed rate on 
Ref: DRN70529674their new mortgage with a mortgage term of thirty years. This was similar to the previous 
recommendation as it met Mr and Mrs Bs objectives of having  certainty  over repayments 
and keeping the total monthly repayment within  a set budget. So the recommendation 
appears suitable.
There were similar mortgages available with other  lenders that were  marginally  cheaper over 
the five year terms. So Id have expected  these  to have been discussed  with Mr and Mrs B. 
And from what Ive seen they were. 
MAB has provided evidence that the process  of getting the initial  lending  approved  with Mr 
and Mrs Bs existing lender had taken some time due to the nature of Mr Bs employment 
and the lender wanting payslips in a particular format. Its also provided  notes of discussions, 
when the new recommendation was made, which indicate it discussed the potentially 
cheaper options with other lenders. The notes indicate MAB  went  on to explain that while  
these mortgages  may be cheaper,  a new application with a different lender might incur  
similar delays  in approval to those already experienced  as a new lender may also require 
additional information and explanation around  payslips. So while  I agree the convenience of 
the application staying with the same lender was a factor, this wasnt just for MABs benefit. 
The notes indicate  that based  on this, Mr and Mrs B decided that the marginal saving wasnt 
worth the potential extra inconvenience  of starting  an application from scratch.
So based  on everything Ive seen I think the recommendation made by MAB was suitable. 
Ive taken on board what Mr and Mrs B have said about why they used MAB  and the overall 
situation they found themselves in. And I know they feel strongly about this. But based on 
what Ive seen, while incorrect information was given regarding  the ERC to begin with, apart  
from that I dont think MAB  has done a great deal wrong.
I understand MAB may not yet have paid the £300 it offered to Mr and Mrs B. If Mr and 
Mrs B now decide they want to accept that offer, they should contact MAB directly  to arrange 
payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think Mortgage  Advice Bureau  Limited  did make some  errors, 
but I think its offer is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint so I dont think it 
needs to do anything more and dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7052967