K820x#14complaint
The trustees of P, a trust,  complain about  HSBC UK Bank Plcs safeguarding process which  
led to the closure  of its account. Mr T has brought this complaint on behalf  of the trustees.
background
HSBC wrote to the trustees of P in November 2017  to say it needed information to complete 
a safeguarding process. In December 2017,  after speaking  with Mr T, HSBC  wrote to P with 
a list of information it required.  
HSBC says it received  a mandate  form and trust deed from Mr T in January 2018. But HSBC 
needed additional information so wrote to Mr T again and asked him to get in touch. Mr T 
spoke with HSBC  in February  and details of the information required were given. 
HSBC also wrote to P to give 60 days notice of its intention to close  the account. Mr T made  
a complaint: he was upset  by the tone of HSBCs letters and thought that some of the 
information it requested  was unnecessary.  
The account  was closed by HSBC on 24 April 2018  and the balance sent to P. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said while HSBC 
had made  errors this didnt change the outcome.  HSBC had made  it clear  that the 
information it requested  was required  and the account would be closed  if it wasnt received. 
As Mr T didnt provide the information,  HSBC closed Ps account. HSBC  had given  notice 
and told Mr T the account would be closed. 
Mr T responded on behalf of the trustees to say they didnt agree. He said HSBC  hadnt 
explained why it asked for details of a former employee who wasnt a signatory. He said 
HSBC didnt explain why it couldnt locate a letter  and other  information  hed sent it in 
February 2018. Mr T said HSBC should  have taken this into account before  closing  the 
account.
Mr T also said HSBC  refused to make  the cheque for the balance payable to him or a 
beneficiary. It made the cheque payable to P, despite P not having an account into which  it 
could be paid. He said it was wrong  for HSBC to treat P as a business when its a trust.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
HSBC asked Ps trustees for information.  This was part of its safeguard review, intended to 
protect customers from fraud and financial crime. 
The terms and conditions  of Ps account  say HSBC can close the account by giving notice. 
HSBC gave notice  to Ps trustees. While  HSBC  didnt have to give a reason, it said it was 
closing the account because it hadnt  received all the information it requested  for its 
safeguard review. 
Ref: DRN78458452Mr T says he provided some information and HSBC made an error when it said this wasnt 
received. HSBC doesnt agree that it mislaid any information. Nonetheless,  theres no 
dispute that Mr T didnt  provide all of the information requested by HSBC. Mr T says some of 
the information HSBC asked for was unnecessary. He said he was unable  to provide all of 
the information.
HSBC provided a copy of an email  it sent to Mr T in February 2018.  In the email, it asks for 
details of an ex-employee  if that employee is to be an account signatory. So I think  HSBC 
did explain  why it asked  for information.  And Mr T had the opportunity to respond to confirm 
that the person wasnt to be a signatory (if that was the case). 
HSBC also asked for information about  the directors  of one of the trustees, which is a listed  
company. HSBC says while some  of this information  is publically available  its policy requires 
the customer to provide  the information.  I appreciate  Mr Ts frustration, but I dont think I can 
reasonably find that it was wrong for HSBC to ask for the information. Nor do I think  it would  
be reasonably  to find that HSBC should  have kept Ps account despite  not receiving the 
information it requested.  As HSBC gave the required notice, I dont think  it made an error 
when it closed Ps account.
I understand Mr Ts frustration that HSBC issued a cheque for the closing balance payable  
to P (which  didnt at that time have a bank  account).  However, P was the account  holder and 
so the funds did belong to P. I dont think this was an error. 
Mr T says its wrong for HSBC to refer to providing  P with business banking  services when 
its a trust. I think its for HSBC to decide how to offer services to customers  such  as trusts or 
other unincorporated bodies.  I dont  think it was unfair for HSBC to offer business banking  
services to P. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7845845