K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly  gave  her 
loans she couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mrs C 3 loans between May and December 2013. Loan  1 was repaid in full 
and on time,  loan 2 was deferred 6 times and loan 3 was deferred 3 times. 
Mrs C says that proportionate checks werent carried  out before the loans were provided.  
She says if these had taken place Mr Lender  would have realised she was reliant on short 
term loans and that the loans werent affordable for her.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mrs Cs employment  and says based on the information  it gathered  
the lending was affordable.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loan 1 shouldnt have been 
provided. However, at the point of loan 2 Mrs Cs borrowing and repayment pattern should  
have alerted the business that Mrs C was having problems managing  her money and it 
shouldnt have given  her any further loans.  
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view but it offered to refund  all interest  and 
charges on the last three deferrals on loan 2 and a £25 voucher. Mrs C didnt accept the 
offer so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN73159642refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loan one should not have 
been provided. I have  looked at the information gathered, including  income information from 
the time,  and I agree that there  isnt enough  to say Mr Lender should not have provided this 
loan to Mrs C. It was early in the lending relationship and there  was no reason to doubt what 
Mrs C was saying about her finances.
Looking at Mrs Cs borrowing pattern I can see that she asked to take out loan 2 just 1 week  
after loan 1 was repaid  and she asked for an increased amount.  The repayment for loan 2 
was £390. This was a significant proportion of Mrs Cs declared income of £900. The short 
gap between borrowing  and asking for an increased amount would suggest that Mrs C was 
having problems  managing her money and couldnt afford to pay back  what she had 
borrowed without borrowing again.  I think  that given these factors Mr Lender  should not have 
continued to lend to Mrs C without a more  thorough  check  of her circumstances. I think at 
this point Mr Lender should  have taken  steps to verify what  Mrs C was saying about her 
financial circumstances and in particular ask about  her expenses to check she could afford  
such a significant  repayment. If Mr Lender had carried  out more  robust  checking  of Mrs Cs 
circumstances it would  have seen that Mrs C wasnt responsibly managing  her money  and 
had other  payday  loans,  so further lending was unsustainable. The fact that Mrs C asked to 
defer the repayment  on this loan on 6 occasions  further suggests  that the loan was 
unaffordable and she couldnt afford to repay  it.
Mrs C repaid loan 2 on 20 December 2013 and 10 days later asked for a further loan of 
£400. The repayment on this loan was £520  which was over half of Mrs Cs declared 
income. Mr Lender didnt ask about Mrs Cs expenses or verify that this was affordable for 
Mrs C. the fact that she had deferred the previous loan on 6 occasions should have alerted 
Mr Lender that by this stage Mrs C was persistently  reliant on this credit.   
Ref: DRN73159643Mr Lender has said that Mrs C didnt show any difficulty repaying her loans but I think that 
the amount of times  she deferred loans 2 and 3 is an indicator of difficulty and Mrs C was 
taking expensive short term credit  over a prolonged period of time.
So Im upholding  Mrs Cs complaint about  loans  2 and 3.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs C towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans, not including  anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mrs C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all adverse entries  from Mrs Cs credit  file for loan 2. The overall length of 
time and pattern of borrowing for loan 3 means  any information is adverse  and this 
loan should be completely removed  from Mrs Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should  put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7315964