K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that they were mis-sold a regular  premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide).
background
In 1991 Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage. At the same time they took out a PPI policy in 
Mr Hs sole name to protect their repayments  if Mr H lost his job or was unable to work due 
to accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as she didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree.  They say they werent  given sufficient information on the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say the policy was sold inside a branch of Nationwide.  Nationwide cant  
confirm this is the case but think its likely  it was sold in a branch. But regardless of how the 
policy was sold Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional  and that Mr and Mrs H 
chose to take it. Mr and Mrs H say this wasnt done  but havent  given us much detail about 
why they think  this. And Nationwide havent  been  able to give us any of the sales 
documentation from the time.  But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold over 25 
years ago. So Ive relied  more on what  we know about the type of PPI products that were  
sold at the time and what I think is most  likely to have happened.
Only Mr H was covered by the policy but both Mr and Mrs H were working and jointly  
responsible for the mortgage. If PPI wasnt optional I wouldve expected both parties  to the 
mortgage would have to be covered. So I think it is likely Mr and Mrs H understood they had 
a choice in taking the policy and chose to cover just Mr H despite  both being  eligible for 
cover.
From what  we know of Nationwide PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis.  
And I havent seen  anything from this sale to make me think  it was any different here. What  
this means is that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs H, it just gave them 
information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed  choice  about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed  since the sale, I dont know if Nationwide  did give 
all the information  as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference  because I 
think Mr and Mrs H wouldve  still taken the policy if they were given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sale:
Ref: DRN74756222 
Mr H was eligible for the policy.
And it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught  by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
Mr H says he was entitled to some sick pay and had a critical illness policy they could 
use to make their mortgage repayments if he wasnt able to work.  But the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of this and covered them for different things and for 
potentially longer for up to 24 months per claim if Mr H couldnt work due to accident  
or sickness or became unemployed.    
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs H in their 
circumstances especially considering Mr and Mrs H were taking on a significant and 
long term financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were  unable to meet 
their repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting  them. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs H and if they 
no longer wanted the policy they were  able to cancel  it. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
H.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7475622