K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 online. Mrs R says Canada Square Operations Limited  (trading as Egg)  mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Egg had to make Mrs R aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding 
it to her card. Mrs R applied  for her PPI policy through an online application  at the same time 
as she applied for a credit  card. Egg hasnt been  able to show  us Mrs Rs completed  online 
application, so Ive considered what we know more widely  about  how it sold PPI online 
around this time. 
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar  to what Mrs R saw at the time of sale, and 
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So I think its likely Egg gave Mrs R the 
option to either accept  or decline the cover before continuing with her credit card application. 
Egg has also given  us a copy of the data that was captured  from Mrs Rs application, I can 
see that the yes box has been selected  to confirm she wanted the PPI.
So I think Egg made it clear that the PPI was optional and that Mrs R chose to take the 
policy. Considering  how long ago the sale took place I think its understandable she cant  
remember doing so now.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. Mrs R has told us she was entitled  to good sick pay when  she took the policy and 
would have received redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Rs 
sick pay and for longer  than she would have received full pay. The PPI would also have paid 
out in circumstances other than redundancy. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Rs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mrs R about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mrs R, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN77631522To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7763152