K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that Erudio Student Loans Limited failed to process her application for 
deferment of repayments.  She further  complains  that it recorded a default on her credit file 
and is chasing  her for the debt. She wants her application processed and the default  
removed.
background
Ms A tells us that Erudio  has mismanaged her student loan account over several years. She 
says that in 2018 it failed  to process  her application for deferment of repayments even 
though shed received an acknowledgement  that her application  had been  received. She 
states that Erudio  later recorded a default  on her credit file in respect of arrears. And that this 
has severely affected her credit rating.  She also complains that Erudio erroneously allocated 
payments made by another  customer to her account. She accepts that these errors were  
later corrected. Ms A says shes now been contacted  by solicitors acting for Erudio who are 
chasing the debt. She says that shes still on benefits and unable to pay.
Erudio told us that the last deferment on Ms As account had ended on 9 September 2018.  It 
said it hadnt received  a deferment application  for beyond this date from Ms A despite 
sending further  reminder notices.  Erudio  acknowledged that errors had been made in 
mistakenly allocating  payments  to Ms As account. It said it hadnt  fully explained to Ms A 
how arrears - which led to the issue of a default  notice and a notice of sums in arrears  - had 
arisen. It said it had arranged to pay her £100 to acknowledge this failing.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 June  2020.  Both parties have 
acknowledged receipt of the decision but neither has since  provided any new information.  In 
the absence of further information, I see no reason to change my provisional decision which 
is largely repeated  in my final decision set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A took out student loans some twenty  or more  years  ago. Ownership  of those loans was 
subsequently acquired by Erudio.
Unlike many  other types of loan the liability to make repayments of student loans may - 
subject to certain conditions - be deferred. This is largely dependent upon  income  and an 
annual application  for deferment  being made.
Ms A has previously  been  entitled to have her loan repayments deferred and she says that 
she submitted a further application in July 2018.  Ive seen an email  from Erudio dated  9 July 
2018 which acknowledges  receipt  of Ms As deferment application.
It seems  that Erudio could  find no other details on its system of Ms As deferment  
application. As a result  of this Erudio sent a number of follow  up reminder letters.  This was 
in addition to an entry on the acknowledgement email which had requested  that Ms A 
contacted Erudio if she hadnt  heard back after 28 days. Ms A accepts she didnt follow  this 
request or submit any other  application.
Ref: DRN78750262Erudio sent a default notice dated  14 May 2019.  And when the terms of this default  letter  
werent met it sent a notice of termination  on 12 June 2019.  This required Ms A to clear  the 
balance of £5,778.82 within seven days. Nor surprisingly shes been  unable to do this. Ms A 
has since been contacted by solicitors  acting for Erudio  chasing the debt and warning of 
potential court action.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
From this brief summary, its apparent  how the situation quickly escalated  and reached the 
present position.  I feel bound to conclude that Ms A has contributed to her own difficulties. 
By her own admission she didnt follow up and submit  a further deferment application when it 
became apparent the original application couldnt  be found. I suspect she allowed  her 
frustration at what she saw as Erudios previous mishandling of her account  to overcome her 
better judgment.
But I go back to the very start. And I find, on a balance of probabilities, that the original 
failure is that of Erudio.  Ive not received a satisfactory explanation to explain  how an 
application can be acknowledged yet not be accessible elsewhere on its systems. Ms A has 
supplied information  which  shows  its highly probable that if her application had been 
processed it would have enabled her to defer payments.
I did ask Erudio if it would - even at this stage - agree to an informal resolution of this 
complaint which  would involve retrospectively  processing Ms As application. It declined to 
do so.
In deciding what is a fair and reasonable determination  of this complaint Ive taken into 
consideration the effects of the loss and non-processing of Ms As original application for 
deferment for which I find Erudio was responsible.  Ive concluded that the effect of the 
resultant termination  of the agreement and the recording  of a default  on her credit  file is 
likely to have a serious adverse impact on Ms As financial  position  going forward.  And that 
this outweighs the inconvenience of Erudio being  required  to retrospectively assess her 
application. Particularly so when its probable her income wouldve entitled  her to defer 
payments.
I want to make it clear that Im not offering Ms A an open-ended chance to submit  or 
resubmit any applications that cover the period from September 2018 to the present day. Its 
essential that these are submitted with the minimum of further  delay. And its up to Ms A to 
attend to the administrative  requirements  that are placed upon her to achieve this.
Ref: DRN78750263To avoid  any doubt as to whats required I propose  she should submit the necessary 
information - along with any proof  of income that Erudio  may require - within  one month of 
the final date for accepting or rejecting my decision. How this is done I will leave to the 
parties. But I assume it will follow the standard process. If its still possible for Ms A to submit 
her application  online she should do so. If not, Id expect Erudio to supply the necessary 
forms to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I now require Erudio  Student  Loans Limited  to take the following action  in full and final 
settlement of this complaint:
1. Upon receipt of further application(s) for deferment from Ms A in respect of any periods 
after September 2018 and up to the present date,  it should process such  applications as if 
they had been received by the due date; Such applications need  to be submitted  so as to be 
received by Erudio  Students Loan Limited no later than 30 September 2020.
2. If the deferment  applications referred to above  are successful Erudio should take such 
action as is necessary,  including if required the reinstatement of the agreement  backdated  to 
the appropriate date. It should  also arrange  to remove  from Ms As credit  file any adverse 
details its had recorded which relate  to the period from July 2018 up to the termination of the 
agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7875026