K822xcomplaint
Miss W says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Sunny provided  to Miss W between  
December 2017  and May 2018. A summary of Miss Ws borrowing history is below:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Max Repayment
1 08/12/2017 outstanding 7 £1,200.00 £248.28
2 05/03/2018 30/04/2018 7 £200.00 £302.62
3 12/05/2018 outstanding 28 £400.00 £376.83
 
The balance on two of the loans remain outstanding at the time of writing  this decision. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought that none of the loans should 
have been given to Miss W as the repayment cost for loan 1 was a significant portion of her 
income. Sunny disagreed but it made  an offer to settle the complaint which  wasnt  in line 
with our general approach. The offer was put to Miss W, but she didnt respond.  
As an informal resolution couldnt  be reached, the case has been  passed to me for a final 
decision. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These  factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN75008212the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.  Having done this, Im upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Sunny says it carried out adequate checks on Miss W when she applied for her first loan. 
This included verifying her employment and income.  It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal  anything of concern. This was Miss Ws first loan with Sunny, and I can 
see that the checks detailed above were carried out. However,  I think  if Sunny had properly 
considered the information it had about Miss Ws financial situation  and the lending,  I think 
it would  have seen  that   Miss  W was not able to take on this borrowing. 
I say this because  Miss W was borrowing £1,200, which was due to be repaid in seven 
monthly instalments  plus interest. This meant  that Miss W would be repaying  around £250 
from her monthly declared income of £900.  The repayment represented a significant 
proportion of Miss Ws income and I think Sunny ought to have realised this and the 
potential for Miss W to struggle to make  the repayment. Given  Miss Ws income and 
borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance  of Miss W having to borrow again  to 
meet her commitment not just under this loan but for all her loans. 
 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back  if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Miss W towards interest,  
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Sunny has already refunded.
Ref: DRN75008213B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Miss W which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss W as though they had been  
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Miss W having  made  
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Miss W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss W. Sunny shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation 
to loans 1 to 3. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ws complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
I understand Miss W is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Miss W should 
bear in mind  her obligations to her Insolvency  Practitioner (IP) in respect  of any redress  she 
receives. A copy of this decision will be sent to her IP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7500821