K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express)  mis-
sold his credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint. I invited American  Express and Mr S to send in any further comments  or evidence  
they wanted me to consider by 19 April 2019, before I reached a final decision. Neither 
American Express nor Mr S sent in a response.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither American Express nor Mr S 
provided further evidence or arguments for consideration, Ive no reason to change  the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78617082COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complained that American Express  Services Europe Limited (American Express) mis-sold  his 
credit card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr S took out the PPI policy when he applied for a credit card in March 2003.  American  Express said 
that the application  was made  by post and it didnt  advise Mr S to take out the PPI. Mr S said that the 
PPI was added without his consent.
The policy cost 72p for each £100 Mr S owed  on his credit card.  If hed successfully claimed on the 
policy for accident,  sickness or unemployment, each month  it would have paid out 5% of what he 
owed on the card when he stopped working. This would  have carried  on for up to 24 months  per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence  to say that American Express  mis-sold  the 
policy, so didnt uphold the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. 
Im not currently proposing  to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
American Express sent us a copy of Mr Ss credit card application. From  what  I can see on the form,  
Im satisfied that this was a postal application. The form shows that Mr S had to tick a box to say that 
he wanted the insurance, although  he didnt have to sign separately for it. I think Mr S couldve 
chosen not to tick the box. So I think he was aware of the PPI at the time - and chose to take it.
American Express didnt advise Mr S to take out the policy, so it didnt need to make sure that the PPI 
was suitable for him. But it shouldve given  him enough information for him to decide whether the 
policy was right for him.
The credit  card application  doesnt  show  the cost of the policy, although  it refers  to a separate  leaflet.  
I have a copy  of the PPI policy, but I cant know whether  this was provided to Mr S along  with the 
application. So I dont  know  what  information Mr S wouldve had available  to him at the point of sale.  
Weve been given inconsistent information about Mr Ss circumstances.  When he brought  his 
complaint to us (and indeed when  he originally  complained to American Express), he said he didnt 
have any health problems at the time of the sale. Later on, he said hed had a number of medical 
conditions when he took out the credit card and PPI. 
When we asked him about  this inconsistency,  he didnt  provide any information  about  when the 
conditions had actually  started and how they had affected him. And from the limited information  I 
have, the severity of the health problems he mentioned  doesnt  seem to be consistent with him being  
able to carry out the type of work he said he was doing at the time of the sale (as shown on the 
application form). Ill look at any more  evidence  Mr S can send  in about his state of health in 2003,  but 
at this stage  I dont have enough evidence to say that he had health problems when he took out the 
PPI that would have affected his ability to claim on the policy. 
Ref: DRN78617083Weve also had inconsistent information about Mr Ss sick pay. He initially said that he wouldve had 
good sick pay from his employer, but later said that he wouldnt have been entitled to sick pay at all. 
And he said he wouldnt have had any other ways of covering  the card repayments. From this I think 
he couldve found it difficult to meet the monthly payments quite  quickly if he couldnt work. So I think  
the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit.
Overall, although I dont  think American Express fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mr S 
would have acted differently   and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection for him if he couldnt work.  This means I dont currently  think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr S paid on his PPI  and whether  American Express  treated 
him unfairly. 
American Express has told us that the commission for Mr Ss PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how American  Express has been working  this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ss commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont  think  American 
Express treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr S back any of the commission he 
paid for the PPI.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not proposing  to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. 
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861708