K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains IGO4  Limited didnt provide clear information about her motor insurance 
policy.  
Miss T had a representative during  the sale of her policy and her complaint  about it. For 
simplicity Ive referred to his actions  as being  those  of Miss T. 
background 
In March 2016 Miss T took out a branded car insurance policy through  IGO4.  She used a 
price comparison  website.  The sale was completed during a phone  call with IGO4.  The 
policy required Miss T to have a telematics  box fitted to her car to monitor  her driving. This 
recorded four aspects  of her driving behaviour, including the time of day the car was being  
used and its speed. The data for each was used to produce an overall driving  score  out of 
100. The policy terms said if her overall  score dropped  below 40 Miss T could be sent a 
warning letter and her cover might be cancelled.  
After a month or so Miss Ts overall  score  fell to a little below 100. This was for speed and 
driving at night on a couple of occasions. She says, when buying the policy,  she was told 
she wouldnt  be penalised  for driving at night occasionally. Shes also unhappy  she wasnt  
provided with more detailed information  about the scoring system  and how it had been 
applied. She says this caused her to stop using the car at night. So she wants IGO4  to 
compensate her for having  to use other  transport. 
In response to Miss Ts complaint IGO4 didnt offer to provide any compensation or do 
anything differently.   
Our investigator said Miss T had been  give clear enough information  about how driving at 
night would impact  her score. He felt she could have monitored her scores to understand the 
impact. But he said the service provided  to Miss T could have been better. After  that IGO4  
offered £50 to recognise that. The investigator thought that was reasonable. Miss T didnt 
accept those findings, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T says she was told if she used her car at night only occasionally she wouldnt be 
penalised. She says she was told that driving  once every so often would be acceptable.  But 
she found when  the car was used at night a couple  of times that it had a negative  impact on 
her time of day and overall scores.
Ive listened to the sales call. Miss T asked about  driving at night. IGO4  said it realised 
policyholders would need to drive at night  sometimes. IGO4s  sales information says similar. 
During the call it suggested  Miss T monitor her score to decide on driving at night. This 
implied driving at night  would have some impact  on the score. Miss T seems to feel she was 
told driving at night occasionally would have  no impact  at all  including  on her scores. I 
dont agree she was told that during the sales call.  
Ref: DRN76202152As far as Ive seen the car was used  on occasion at night  and she didnt lose out as a 
result. She wasnt penalised  other than her scores  reducing a little. And she wasnt issued 
with a warning of policy cancellation.  As far as I can see her score  was always around 90 out 
of 100. Thats significantly above the 40 threshold  for a possible a warning  or cancellation.   
Miss T wasnt  provided with information she wanted regarding her speed score.  But I cant  
see she lost out as a result of that. Again her speed and overall scores were always  around 
90. Her score wasnt near the 40 mark that might result in a warning or cancellation from the 
insurer.    
Miss Ts unhappy she wasnt provided  with the information she requested  about how the 
scoring system worked  and how it had been applied to her. The lack of understanding  meant 
she was scared to use her car at night   she didnt know  if her policy  would be cancelled as 
a result.  Ive considered that. But I think she could have reasonably continued  using her car 
in the way she had been. 
She knew which driving behaviours were being  monitored. Shed been told during one of the 
phone calls that any driving at night would  have impact on her score.  She was told the score 
for time of day was based  on the proportion of driving taking place  at night  not on a flat 
rate per incident.  So shed been given some  additional information to explain how it worked.  
Miss T looked at her scores. Shed have known it was at around 90 out of 100  despite the 
car being driven at night on a couple  of occasions during a month  or so. She was still some 
way off the 40 point  level that might have resulted in a warning or possible cancellation. So it 
would have been reasonable for her to continue driving as she had been  whilst  monitoring 
its impact on her score. So Im not going to make IGO4 cover the cost of any alternative  
transport.     
IGO4 has offered Miss T £50 compensation for the inconvenience of poor customer  service  
she received. That seems reasonable to me. So I wont be making  IGO4  pay any extra.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, IGO4 Limited will need to pay Miss T £50 compensation. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7620215