K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc didnt pay interest on the funds in his current  account 
between November 2017 and September 2018. 
background
Mr G has a Classic  Plus current account that pays interest on the basis  the account holder  
will: 
-Pay in £500  a month
-Register for online banking
-Register for and maintain paperless correspondence
-Register for and maintain paperless statements 
Mr G stopped receiving interest in November 2017.  TSB has explained that it stopped  
paying interest because Mr G hadnt  been  monitoring his account correspondence  which  
had gone unread for over 12 months. 
Mr G noticed that interest wasnt being paid in April 2018 and complained.  TSB told Mr G 
why it had stopped paying interest and that to receive it again he needed to log in to his 
online account and check the messages in his inbox. TSB also told Mr G that he needed to 
switch his communication choice back to paperless. 
Mr G didnt start receiving interest again  until September 2018.  Hes asked why it took so 
long for interest  payments  to start again  after he first complained in April 2018. 
Mr G referred  his complaint to our service and an investigator looked  at what  had happened.  
She said that TSB had dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly so didnt  ask it to take any further 
action. Mr G remains unhappy and asked to appeal the investigators view so his complaints 
been passed to me to make a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen there are two key issues in this case. Whether the payment of interest 
was correctly stopped in November 2017 and why it wasnt paid again until September  2018, 
despite Mr Gs complaint in April 2018. Ill start with TSBs  initial decision to stop paying 
interest. 
Ive looked at the product  terms and have set them out above. The terms say that as well as 
ensuring at least £500  a month is paid into the account customers have to use their online 
banking service to maintain their correspondence and statements. What that effectively 
means is that to receive interest customers have to log in online and check  messages and 
statements theyre sent by TSB. If messages, correspondence or statements arent  checked  
for 12 months interest  payments stop. 
In this case, TSB isnt able to provide all the systems evidence  due to a migration. But it has 
provided evidence  to show it contacted Mr G about his online account  use before it stopped 
paying interest. TSBs also sent us a copy of a letter dated 1 April 2018 that explained  Mr G 
Ref: DRN77699822was no longer receiving  interest. Ive looked carefully at the available evidence  and whilst Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr G I havent found  he was checking his online correspondence or 
statements which meant TSB was right to stop paying  interest.  
TSBs provided contact  notes that show what was discussed with Mr G when  he called to 
complain in April 2018. The contact notes show that to restart interest payments Mr G was 
told to log into his account online to check his messages and statements. He also had to 
request his communication preference be switched  back to paperless. 
I wanted to get a better understanding of why it took until September 2018  for the interest  
payments to resume so I asked TSB for some systems evidence to show  Mr Gs use of his 
online banking. Because of system changes TSBs only been able to go back as far as 
May 2018 but its sent in evidence of the times Mr G accessed his account  online.  It shows 
Mr G logged in on the following  occasions: 
-30 May 2018 for less than one minute
-31 May 2018 for less than one minute
-21 June 2018  for 3 minutes 41 seconds
-26 June 2018  for 2 minutes and 36 seconds
-7 September  2018 for 55 seconds
-7 September  2018 for 7 minutes  and thirty  two seconds
-7 September  2018 for 6 minutes  35 seconds
In order to reactivate  the interest payments  Mr G had to do more  than simply log into his 
online banking. He had to read the different messages hed been sent by TSB and review 
statements. Mr G also had to switch his communication  preference back  to paperless. Given  
the number of messages and statements Mr G wouldve had at this stage, I think  it wouldve 
taken a reasonable amount of time to check. Looking at the log-in dates and durations, I 
think the first time Mr G had logged in for long enough to do everything he had to do was 
most likely 7 September 2018. TSB started  to pay interest again from September 2018 
which also shows thats the point where  Mr G started to meet the required terms again. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but I havent  found any evidence of an error by TSB in this case. 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the initial decision  to stop interest  payments was 
reasonable because Mr G wasnt checking his online statements or correspondence.  And 
Ive seen contact  notes from April 2018  that show Mr G was told what steps  to follow  to 
restart the interest  payments. Ive thought  carefully  about the dates  and durations  of Mr Gs 
online banking use and I think  its more  likely  than not that it wasnt until 7 September 2018 
that he took the necessary steps  to qualify for interest payments again. As I havent found  
TSB has made  a mistake Im not telling it to do anything else to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7769982