K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that TSB Bank plc recorded  incorrect information  on her credit  reference 
file after she had settled  a debt.
background
Mrs R entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) in 2011, which included her TSB 
credit card. She maintained her agreed  repayments for the duration of that scheme and her 
debt to TSB was settled  in October  2017. Mrs R complains that her credit reference files 
(CRF) continued to record adverse information  about her TSB account for the months 
following that settlement  date stating that the account remained in default, had outstanding 
balances and that she was 6 months late with her payments. She therefore complained to 
TSB.
At that time TSB was struggling with a very large  number of customer complaints resulting 
from changes to its computer system.  As it knew it would be unable to respond to Mrs Rs 
complaint in a reasonable timescale  it told her she could act as if it had done  so and refer 
her complaint directly  to us, which she did.
Our investigators produced a number of different views on the complaint in the light of 
additional information provided  by both Mrs R and TSB. But the investigators final view was 
that TSB had incorrectly recorded information on Mrs Rs CRF beyond the settlement date. 
He said that TSB should amend that incorrect information.
TSB disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary it said that having 
referred the matter  to its data disputes  team it was confident that the information  it had 
reported on Mrs Rs CRFs was correct.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is perhaps helpful if I first give a brief description  of a DAS as it was at the time that Mrs R 
agreed hers. It was a scheme set up under legislation  by the Scottish  government  that was 
available to Scottish residents. It allowed individuals (debtors) struggling to repay their debts 
to repay  these by affordable monthly  repayments over an extended  period  of time. Debtors 
made a single monthly payment into the DAS, which the scheme  manager  then distributed  to 
creditors.
During the DAS all interest,  fees and charges on the debt were  frozen, and ultimately they 
were waived on satisfactory completion  of the scheme.  Debtors repaid their debts  in full 
albeit over an extended period of time. But because the legislation  stated that DAS 
administrators could charge fees of up to 22%, to be deducted  from the amount paid into the 
DAS by debtors,  creditors might  actually receive  only 78% of the amount initially  owed. 
Nevertheless the rules  of the scheme stated that creditors should  treat the debt as settled at 
the end of the DAS, and debtors could no longer be held liable by creditors. 
Mrs Rs TSB credit  card was included in a DAS set up in 2011. TSB has accepted  that as 
fact although it says it cannot find records from that date as the credit  card was with Lloyds 
TSB at that time.
Ref: DRN76996422From the documents I have seen I am satisfied that under the DAS Mrs Rs debt to TSB was 
settled in October 2017, and her CRF reflects  this. And so under the terms of the DAS Mrs R 
was no longer in debt to TSB after October 2017,  and any subsequent report to the credit  
reference agencies  should have been consistent  with that fact. But I can see from Mrs Rs 
Experian CRF generated in November 2019  that for many months after October 2017 TSB 
continued to report  an outstanding balance  on her account and that she was 6 months  late 
with her payments.  That information is incorrect.
TSB has provided us with many different and inconsistent explanations  about why it has 
reported that information. These include I can confirm that the default  would be placed at 
the end of the DAS and As Mrs R only paid 90% of her debt then the account is only 
partially settled. With respect  to the former TSB had indeed recorded Mrs Rs account as 
being in default in October 2017 at the end of the DAS. But following our involvement the 
bank has now removed  that incorrect information.  
And with respect  to TSBs  second  point about  the debt being  only partially settled I consider 
the bank to be wrong. Mrs R successfully  completed her DAS,  which  means that she is 
considered to have  repaid her debt in full. But because the DAS administrator was entitled  to 
charge fees for managing the scheme, and to deduct that sum from the amount paid to TSB, 
the bank will not have received 100% of the sum owed. But that does not alter the position  
that under  DAS rules, TSB must  treat Mrs Rs debt as settled and not partially settled.
TSB must therefore amend the information  it has reported to credit reference agencies.
my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank plc must amend the information it has reported about Mrs R to 
credit reference agencies to reflect the fact that she settled her debt in October  2017.  
Beyond that date her file should therefore  not show either an outstanding balance or that 
she is late with payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7699642