K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr L says National  Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Nat West disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint was passed  to me.
In November 2018 I issued my provisional  findings  on Mr Ls complaint and invited both 
parties to comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think  about.       
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Mr Ls complaint, my main 
reasons were:
I thought it most likely Mr L applied for the credit  card by post, and opted to add PPI knowing 
it was optional. I didnt  think Nat West advised him to take out the PPI so it didnt have to 
check it was right for him. And even  if Nat West had given Mr L the clear information  about 
the policy that it should have, I still think hed have gone ahead and bought it.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Nat West nor Mr L have replied  with any new evidence or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
November 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint 
and I dont make any award  against  National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2001. Mr 
L says National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Ref: DRN72315642Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Nat West  disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not intending to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Where there is limited information, I make my decision based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account  the evidence available,  what  both parties have told me and what we 
know about these types of sale.
In this case there is very little information available about how the credit card and PPI were sold to Mr 
L. Thats understandable given the account was opened in 2001 and was closed many years ago. Mr 
L told us in the complaint questionnaire  he completed that the PPI was sold to him over the 
telephone. 
Nat West has now told us it believes the credit  card and the PPI were  taken out using a postal 
application form.
Nat West told us it spoke to Mr L when  it initially  investigated the complaint. Its given  us notes it took 
during the conversation with Mr L. Although Mr L said he didnt have a strong recollection of how the 
policy was sold to him, he did say he thought  he applied for the card using a postal application form.
I can see from Nat Wests internal systems that the credit card and the PPI policy  were set up on the 
same day. If Mr L had taken out the card and the PPI using a postal application then this is what  Id 
expect to see. Whereas if Mr L had taken out the credit  card and then been sold the PPI during a 
telephone conversation, Id expect to see the PPI set up after the credit card account.
So taking everything into account I think it is most likely Mr L applied for the credit  card and the PPI 
policy using a postal.
Although Nat West hasnt been able to show us the actual postal application form for Mr Ls credit 
card, from experience I know that postal applications in use at that time wouldve contained a section 
on PPI. And Mr L wouldve  needed to tick a box in order to add the PPI his account.
I also note that the PPI was active on Mr Ls account until at least 2007. And the premiums for the PPI 
wouldve appeared on his monthly statements as purchases.  If Mr L hadnt opted  to add the PPI to his 
account, or didnt want it, Id expect him to have  questioned it at an early  stage. But I havent seen  
any evidence that he did so.
So overall I think  Nat West most likely  made it clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this after so many  years.
Because I think Mr L applied for the credit  card and was sold the PPI by post, I dont  think  Nat West  
recommended the PPI to him. So it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. But it did have to 
make sure Mr L got the information he needed so he could decide  for himself  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Nat West gave  Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went 
Ref: DRN72315643wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the policy. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including  what  he told us about  his employers sick pay 
scheme. Mr L has said his employer wouldve  paid him full pay for six months and then half pay for 
another six months if he became too unwell  to work. But I think Mr L was still interested in having the 
extra cover. And the PPI policy would have paid a monthly  benefit in addition to Mr Ls sick pay and 
for up to 12 months.  Itd also have  paid a monthly benefit  if he lost his job. So I still think Mr L would  
have found the policy useful if he couldnt work. 
In summary I think  its most likely Mr L applied for the credit card by post, and opted  to add PPI 
knowing it was optional. I dont think Nat West advised him to take out the PPI so it didnt have to 
check it was right for him. And even if Nat West had given Mr L the clear information about the policy 
that it should  have, I still think hed have gone ahead and bought it.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint and I dont intend to make any award  against National 
Westminster Bank  Plc. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7231564