K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Nationwide  Building Society  did not credit her savings account  with 
£1,900 she deposited during a branch visit.
background
Mrs O says that she visited  a Nationwide branch to deposit £2,000 in £10 notes into her 
savings account.  She says the cashier  put the notes through a counting machine and said 
the total was only £1,900. Mrs O says she didnt realise the money hadnt then been credited 
to her account until she checked her mini-statement some two months later.
Mrs O complained to Nationwide saying initially that she had made  the deposit on the first 
banking day after the Easter holiday, which  was in April. Having checked its branch CCTV 
Nationwide said that Mrs O had visited the branch a few days  after the Easter break.  
She had deposited £500  and the cashier who served her hadnt used the counting  machine.
After further reflection Mrs O then said that she was almost certain that the date of her visit 
had been 8 May. Nationwide investigated again. It looked at the CCTV recording, took 
statements from branch  staff and checked  for possible discrepancies  in branch records for 
that date. Having done so, it could find no evidence that Mrs O had been in the branch when 
she said she had. It therefore  concluded  that as it hadnt made any errors it couldnt uphold  
Mrs Os complaint. 
Mrs O was dissatisfied with this response and so she brought her complaint to us.
In summary,  our adjudicator said she couldnt find any evidence that Mrs O had been  in the 
branch on 8 May. She had checked the banks internal notes, which  included  discrepancy 
sheets, till balancing  sheets and overall branch  balance  sheets, and hadnt  found anything to 
suggest that Mrs O had deposited  £1,900 that hadnt then been credited to her account. 
Our adjudicator had requested the CCTV recording,  but unfortunately it was no longer 
available as Nationwide overwrites recordings after 90 days. 
In conclusion, her view was that Nationwide had dealt  with Mrs Os complaint fairly and she 
wouldnt be asking it to do any more.  She did however note that on Mrs Os handwritten 
complaint form to us she had mentioned  depositing  the money at a different bank. Our 
adjudicator therefore  suggested that Mrs O might wish to check where else shed  been  on 8 
May.
Mrs O was very unhappy with this outcome  and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
She said she was certain she had deposited the money at Nationwide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In complaining that Nationwide staff failed to credit her account  with a £1,900 cash deposit 
Mrs O is essentially  saying either  that staff made an error that day or that they were 
dishonest. For me to make a finding, even on the balance of probabilities, that one or other 
of these is true Im afraid I would  need  some persuasive evidence.
Ref: DRN76594012Mrs O was initially uncertain about the date of her branch  visit, but she is now fairly confident 
that it was on 8 May. 
When Mrs O first complained to Nationwide the branch CCTV footage was available and 
Nationwide has said it showed  that Mrs O wasnt there on 8 May. Unfortunately,  but in line 
with Nationwides  usual  practice, that recording has been deleted and so I cannot know  for 
certain whether  Mrs O was or wasnt there.
Nationwide has provided us with various  branch balances and receipts from that day and 
there is nothing to suggest  that Mrs Os cash was actually received, but then erroneously not 
credited to her account.
In the case of dishonesty I wouldnt necessarily expect that to be apparent  from examining  
Nationwides records. But this would be an extremely serious finding for me to make and Im 
afraid that I cannot  reasonably do so here on the sole basis of Mrs Os statement that she 
deposited £1,900 on 8 May.
Having looked  at Mrs Os account statement I note that she made  three deposits during the 
period covered by her initial and then revised complaint: two in early April and the third in 
early May. These totalled £2,000. In June she made four further deposits totalling £4,500 
and transferred £2,000 from another account.  And it was in mid-July, when she eventually  
checked her statement,  that she realised that a payment of £1,900 was missing.  
Mrs O doesnt seem  to have any documentary evidence in support of her branch visits, such  
as cashier receipts;  or statements of withdrawals from other accounts showing the money 
she then deposited  with Nationwide. And so whilst I do not doubt  that Mrs O sincerely 
believes that she deposited £1,900 when she said she did, Im afraid that on the evidence  
available to me I cannot reasonably conclude  that she did.
I know that this will come as a very significant disappointment to Mrs O, but unfortunately 
Im unable to uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659401