K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms E have complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold  them  a packaged bank 
account which it called the Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
background
Mr and Ms E took out an URCA in July 2009.  The fee was £10 a month. 
The URCA benefits included mobile phone insurance, worldwide  family  travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover, interest  and fee free overdrafts  of up to £300 and 
better rates for higher overdrafts; and a range of discounts and vouchers.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Ms Es complaint and didnt think  the URCA was mis-sold.  
Mr and Ms E disagree so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Ms Es complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Es complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mr and Ms E were aware the URCA  was optional and 
whether they were  given a clear choice  in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that they were. I say this because  theyve  said they had 
previously had a fee free bank account  for many years. So, although they feel they were 
pressured into taking  the URCA,  I think its more likely than not that they were just being  
advised to take it and they knew they could have an account without a fee. And Mr and Ms E 
have signed the application  form for the account. So I think Mr and Ms E were  aware  they 
had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Mr and Ms E to take it, 
but Mr and Ms E says it did. Ive decided to look at this complaint  as an advised  sale as it is 
to Mr and Ms Es advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. So, 
Bank of Scotland needed to provide Mr and Ms E with sufficient  information  about the URCA 
to make an informed choice. And in recommending the URCA,  it also needed to take 
adequate steps to ensure  that the URCA was a reasonable fit for Mr and Ms Es 
circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the URCA was suitable for 
Mr and Ms E and they had clearly been  told about  the account. I say this because  
Mr and Ms E have told us they had cars and mobile  phones, a home,  and they travelled up 
to three  times a year.  And Bank of Scotland has provided evidence  that they registered a 
mobile phone for the insurance  cover; used  the car breakdown service  and contacted the 
home emergency service.  
Mr and Ms E say that when they took out the URCA they had other providers for some of 
these services. Even so, all of these  other  providers could have been cancelled  by 
Ref: DRN74874872Mr and Ms E and the cover provided  by the URCA. And as Mr and Ms E knew the account 
was optional, they could have closed  the account whenever they wished to, but didnt for 
several years. 
Mr and Ms E complain  that the vouchers they were initially  offered were later withdrawn. But 
again, if this was the main reason they had the URCA, they couldve closed the account 
when the vouchers were no longer available.
So in my view Mr and Ms E knew they had a choice about the URCA and decided to take it, 
and the URCA was suitable for them so they have not lost out as result  of anything 
Bank of Scotland may have done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7487487