K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001 by post.  Mrs M says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mrs M aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her card.  Capital One has sent us a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI which gave Mrs M the choice to accept  or decline 
the policy. The option to take the policy has been selected and the form has been signed in 
agreement with the selections that have been  made  on it. With this in mind I think 
Capital One made it clear  that Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she may not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
of making her repayments which included sick pay, savings, shares, private medical  
insurance, death in service cover and redundancy cover. But the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Ms sick pay and for longer than she would have received full pay. The policy  
would also have protected Mrs Ms savings and shares, and it covered circumstance that her 
other cover wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Ref: DRN70440622Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7044062