K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Post Office Ltd (Post Office) didnt give her the advertised exchange 
rate when she bought foreign currency.
background
Ms R went  into a Post Office branch on 31 August  2018 to buy Euros. She says shed 
looked at rates from several providers online beforehand - including Post Office, and was 
expecting to get a certain amount of currency. But Ms R felt that when she went into the  
Post Office  branch, she was given the wrong rate and was charged a commission  and that 
the assistant was trying to negotiate  with her. She was given a rate of 1.0200  euros to the 
pound, so she received €200 at a cost of £196.08.
Ms R complained to Post Office about her experience. It didnt uphold her complaint  
because it says she was given the correct  rate according to its records.  Ms R disagreed so 
came to our service  for an independent  view. An adjudicator considered the complaint but 
didnt uphold  it and Ms R asked for an ombudsman to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R was expecting a better exchange  rate than she got because  shed  looked  at websites 
 including  Post Offices  own website - before she went into the Post Office branch. Because 
of that, I can see why she was unhappy to get less currency than shed expected. I can also 
see that she wasnt happy with the customer service the Post Office assistant gave her. But 
unfortunately, all the evidence  thats been  shared with us leads me to decide that Post Office 
gave Ms R the right rate so I wont be upholding her complaint.
Post Office  has confirmed  (and has provided evidence to support this) that the rate available 
in its branches on 31 August, and thats  the rate Ms R was given. I have no reason to doubt  
thats correct because Post Office says it sets the same exchange rates for all its branches 
and says that its staff cant change  the rate themselves. So Im satisfied that even  if the 
assistant made it sound like they were negotiating with Ms R, or guessing the rate, they gave 
her the right rate for her transaction. And Ive checked the calculation and am satisfied that 
Ms R wasnt  charged any commission, as advertised.
Post Office  offers a better rate if customers buy their currency online  with a minimum order  
of £400 - and shows this rate when  people use its online currency  converter. Post Office has 
provided its records that show on 31 August the online rate was 1.0900  euros to the pound, 
so Ms Rs purchase wouldve cost her approximately £183 if shed bought  it that way - which 
is close to the amount  she expected.  Post Offices  website  explains that the rate shown is for 
online orders, so I dont  think  Ms R shouldve received this instead of the branch rate. Ms Rs 
says the Post Office assistant said the websites were wrong when she asked  about  the 
difference but theres nothing from the evidence to suggest that was the case.
Ref: DRN77304162Ms R says she also saw better  rates offered online by other foreign currency  providers. 
Currency providers are free to set their own rates and customers are free to choose which 
provider to use, so although Ms R paid more  for her travel money than she expected, I dont 
think its fair to say that Post Office should  offer her the same rate as these other providers.  
I understand it wasnt convenient  for her to go somewhere else because  she was going  
away the next morning, but she had the option to refuse the rate she was offered by the   
Post Office  assistant and go to another provider. 
Im satisfied that Ms R was given the correct rate for the currency purchase she made, even 
though I think  the Post Office assistant  couldve explained it better. I understand why she 
wasnt happy with her experience here,  but my decision  is that Im not going to award her 
compensation because I dont  think she suffered a financial  loss or material inconvenience 
as a result  of anything  Post Office  did wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7730416