K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that OSL Financial Consultancy  Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably  
when advising her about her mortgage application. She wants matters put right.
background
Miss O wanted to buy a second property. OSL were her broker  as she needed a mortgage to 
achieve her goal. Miss O got the deposit by re-mortgaging her first property without OSLs  
involvement and turning  it into a buy-to-let property. She then applied  for a mortgage  over 
the new residential property through OSL. Miss O complained that she didnt borrow  enough 
in total to buy the property, so she had to borrow  from friends and family to complete. Miss O 
said that this was OSLs fault.  
Miss O complained to OSL. It said Miss O said she needed to borrow a particular sum and 
told it the purchase price. OSL went to on say that it told Miss O about the fees shed need 
to pay in writing (including its fees), and everything  was set out in the mortgage offer, which  
she accepted.  The loan to cover the deposit  was done by Miss O herself. OSL mentioned 
that Miss O had issues with her credit records, which complicated matters.
Miss O complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that a brokers role was only to advise 
on whether the mortgage product it recommends  is suitable and affordable,  which she said 
OSL had done  in this case. The shortfall  was due to Miss O not ensuring that she had 
enough money to complete, but this wasnt OSLs fault according to the adjudicator.
Miss O disagreed. She said OSL shouldve told her that she needed  more  money. The 
adjudicator pointed out that it was Miss Os responsibility to ensure that she had enough 
money to buy a property,  and shed sorted  out the money  she borrowed for the deposit 
without OSLs advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am aware that there are other 
complaints not before  me. Im only dealing with the complaint about the shortfall.
A brokers role is simply to advise whether a mortgage product is suitable and affordable. 
They dont give general financial advice. 
In Miss Os case, OSL didnt advise  her about her overall position. Miss O chose to convert 
her first propertys mortgage  into a buy-to-let mortgage and use the money released as a 
result as a deposit  for her second property. She did this without  the involvement of OSL.  
This service isnt investigating  any complaint  in relation to the buy-to-let transaction.
Miss Os position is that OSL shouldve advised her about the whole transaction,  including  
the amount she needed to borrow to pay for the new property. That isnt correct. OSL had no 
obligation to give such advice  it is a mortgage broker. The consumer is responsible for 
ensuring that they have enough  to buy a property, particularly when they have chosen to 
borrow money from elsewhere without the involvement of the broker.
Ref: DRN76898202my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 
7 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7689820