K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains that she transferred funds  to Stephen David  Yates (SDY)  to deal with 
some debts for her but he hasnt provided her with any information  about the debts  and as a 
result, she has outstanding creditors.
background 
Mrs D instructed SDY to negotiate and make payments  on her behalf  towards  her debts, 
using funds she had transferred to him, and account to her for those funds. She complained 
that he had failed to clear  her debts or account  to her for the funds. 
SDY questioned our jurisdiction to consider the complaint but did not provide details of his 
reasons for this, or his comments  on the merits of the complaint. 
Our investigator thought it was something  we could look into. She said in the absence  of 
detailed comments from SDY she had to make a judgment based on the information  she 
had. And based  on this she didnt think he had completed the role he was instructed to do. 
She recommended that he repay  to Mrs D any money that had not been paid to the 
outstanding creditors,  and provide Mrs D with evidence of any debts that had been  paid. She 
also recommended  that he pay compensation of £800 for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused. 
SDY didnt accept  these recommendations. So the matter was passed to me. I contacted  
both parties explaining that in general  terms I agreed with the investigators 
recommendations, but thought the details of how the funds  had been  used should be 
confirmed by an accountant, and a time limit set for this to be done.
SDY disagreed and again  said we did not have  jurisdiction to investigate  the complaint. After 
considering his comments I explained  to both parties why I thought  we could  investigate  the 
complaint. In brief, I said Mrs D was an eligible complainant because,  at the time the events 
took place, SDY was carrying out a regulated activity, she was his customer and she had 
complained within the relevant time limits.
SDY still disagreed and said this wasnt a complaint we could investigate. He said Mrs D did 
not complain at the time, and only brought  her complaint in 2019, which  was outside the time 
limits for complaining   and after his firm had been  dissolved and all its business transferred 
to another firm.
As no agreement was reached, I issued a provisional decision to address the various  points 
that had been raised.  I set out in detail why I thought the complaint was one we could 
investigate, referring  to the Rules that govern our service (the DISP Rules). In summary,  
my view was the complaint concerned  a regulated activity that was being carried  out by SDY 
and Mrs D was his customer; she was an eligible complainant; and it was brought within  the 
relevant time limits. Although SDY said all assets  and liabilities were transferred to a 
different firm in 2014, and so it no longer has any liability in respect of this matter, he didnt 
provide any evidence of this. This all meant  we could look into the complaint.
Having set out why the complaint was in our jurisdiction, I went on to consider the merits. My 
findings on this were as follows:
As this is something we can look at, Ive gone on to consider the substance  of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN71106192We have very little information  about the funds that were transferred and how these were 
used. Where we have limited information I have to make a judgment about  what I think  is 
more likely to have  happened,  based  on what I know. SDY hasnt said the funds  were  not 
transferred to his firm to be used  in settling Mrs Ds debts. On the limited information  we 
have received, I have  no reason to doubt that the funds were  transferred and were to be 
used in this way.
In these circumstances, Mrs D would  have expected his firm to negotiate  and make  
payments on her behalf, and account  to her for those funds, but this hasnt happened  she 
says she has received no information  at all and no money has been  refunded  to her. On that 
basis, I agree that the fair way to resolve  the complaint is for SDY to provide a breakdown  to 
Mrs D showing  how the funds have  been used, and to refund to her any money that has not 
been used to pay debts on her behalf. And to reassure Mrs D that the information is 
accurate, it should be certified by a qualified  accountant.
If SDY had dealt  with this in the manner Mrs D expected, this would have reduced  the time 
she had to spend dealing with it. Instead, shes had to spend time chasing  for information 
which she has never received. This has caused  her unnecessary trouble and upset; it would 
have been distressing for her not knowing what was happening, and she would have been 
worried that her debts were not being paid.  I think its fair to compensate  her for this and I 
agree a payment of £800 is reasonable, taking into account how long this has been going  on 
and the distress this has caused to her over that period.
In addition if the funds were  not used to negotiate  and pay the debts,  its likely  these will 
have increased, with additional  interest or charges  possibly being added. Without knowing 
what has happened, its not possible for me to calculate what  any additional loss might be. 
But Mrs D has potentially been  denied the chance of negotiating and using the funds to pay 
these debts herself. In the circumstances, I think a fair way to compensate her for this is to 
award interest on any funds that are refunded to her.
For these reasons I intend to uphold the complaint  and require the following steps to be 
taken to put things  right:
provide a breakdown to Mrs D within two months  of the date of the final decision - 
certified by a qualified  accountant - of all funds received and how these have been 
used;
refund  to Mrs D any balance from the £50,000  that has not been  used to repay debts, 
together with simple  interest at 8% a year from the date Stephen  David Yates 
received those funds  until the date they are repaid to Mrs D;
pay £800 to Mrs D as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
her. This compensation will need to be paid within 28 days of the final decision and if 
paid later than this, simple interest  is to be added at the rate of 8% per year.
developments and findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
Mrs D has not provided any further  comments in reply  to the provisional decision. SDY 
indicated that he would  be providing  a response, but needed further  time to obtain records  
Ref: DRN71106193and prepare this., However, despite  the further time period passing,  no further comments  
have been received.
Given that SDY hasnt responded, there isnt anything to determine  in relation to jurisdiction 
 I have explained why the complaint is one we can consider and havent anything  in 
response. Im satisfied  the complaint is one we can look at.
Ive reviewed the merits of the complaint. And since neither  party has provided any further 
comments there is no reason to change my conclusions. So it remains my view that the 
complaint should  be upheld  and I require the following steps to be taken to put things right:
provide a breakdown to Mrs D within two months  of the date of the final decision - 
certified by a qualified  accountant - of all funds received and how these have been 
used;
refund  to Mrs D any balance from the £50,000  that has not been  used to repay debts, 
together with simple  interest at 8% a year from the date Stephen  David Yates 
received those funds  until the date they are repaid to Mrs D;
pay £800 to Mrs D as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
her. This compensation will need to be paid within 28 days of the final decision and if 
paid later than this, simple interest  is to be added at the rate of 8% per year 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Stephen  David Yates  to take the 
actions set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7110619