K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Mrs K complain  that after the offer on the mortgage product they wanted had 
expired their application  was cancelled by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
background 
In its final response letter  HSBC explained that Mr H and Mrs Ks application was cancelled 
because their property  was subject to a unilateral notice (UN)  and the beneficiary of the UN 
failed to respond to it by the date the product Mr H and Mrs K wanted ceased to be available 
to them.  
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought it was reasonable 
for HSBC to want the UN cancelled. HSBC made reasonable  attempts to contact the 
beneficiary of the UN and it kept Mr H and Mrs K informed. 
Mr H and Mrs K didnt  agree. They didnt  understand why the interest rate on their mortgage 
was able to be changed in March  2018. They feel that the case was too complex for the 
team handling it and that HSBC may have engineered the delays for its benefit.
The investigator explained the rate changed  in March 2018  followed their application for a 
rate switch  which is different from a product switch. The autumn 2018 application for a 
product switch was successful because by then the UN had been cancelled.  He didnt feel 
Mr H and Mrs Ks comments changed  his view.
Mr H and Mrs K continued not to agree.  They felt HSBC  has mishandled the case and as a 
result they have paid additional interest  and had their time wasted. They  thought the fact that 
they were able to enter into a new product later in the year proves their case  was 
mishandled.
my provisional findings
I thought it was reasonable for the bank to require the UN be removed before the new 
product was entered into. 
I noted that HM Land Registrys practice guide  states that the registered proprietor may 
apply to cancel  a UN at any time without giving reasons  for doing so. And when an 
application to cancel a unilateral  notice is received, the registrar  will service  notice of the 
application on the beneficiary  who then has a set period of 15 working days  in which to 
object to the application and show an arguable  case for the validity of the interest claimed. If 
the beneficiary does  not object to the application  within that period, or any extension  to it, or, 
having objected  fails to show an arguable case, the notice is cancelled.
Given Mr H was expressing concern  about delays I thought the bank should have told him 
he could apply directly  for the UN to be cancelled rather  than requiring him to agree to it 
approaching the beneficiary of the UN. I made  it clear that I was not saying the bank had a 
duty to provide Mr H and Mrs K with legal advice.  But having said it would write to the 
beneficiary I thought  it did need  to provide Mr H and Mrs K with the full picture and say there 
was another way which might be more successful.
Ref: DRN70807462I noted that Mr H and Mrs K had the benefit of legal advice during this period. This being the 
case it wasnt clear  to me what they would have done had they been told by the bank about 
the alternative way to cancel the UN and whether  they would have been able to obtain  the 
rate whilst it was still available. As such I thought  it was fair to compensate  them for the 
distress and inconvenience for not providing  as much information  as it reasonably should 
have done. But I didnt think it should  be required to put them in the position they would have  
been in if they had been able to go ahead  with the mortgage product they wanted.
I noted Mr H and Mrs K now have a new mortgage product and they thought  this proved 
HSBCs error. I didnt  agree. I thought this was possible because the UN was cancelled  in 
April 2018. 
responses to my provisional  decision
HSBC didnt agree with all of my provisional  decision but didnt set out which bits or why 
because it decided it would agree  to the outcome.
Mr H and Mrs K agreed to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have agreed to accept my provisional conclusions. So theres  no reason for me 
to depart from them, and I confirm  them  here. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Mr H and Mrs K a further £200 
compensation for the poor service they received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7080746