K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Miss T says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax (Halifax)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  Miss T feels  very strongly  about  this 
matter and so this will be disappointing for her. Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this 
decision.
I think Halifax made it clear that Miss T didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because  Ive been  given a copy  of the credit card agreement which Miss T 
completed, following her meeting in a branch. On this form there  is a section about PPI and a 
box to tick if the cover is required. I can see on Miss Ts agreement  that the box has been 
ticked and she has also signed in the section  to confirm her selection. If Miss T didnt want to 
take out the PPI she didnt have to tick the box or sign for the cover.  
Miss T has said she didnt  know PPI had been  added to her account  but the charge for 
the policy showed as a separate  entry  on her credit card statements. If Miss T didnt know 
what this charge was for or hadnt agreed  to take out the cover,  I think she would have 
raised this with Halifax sooner than she did. Ive also seen a copy of a welcome letter 
which was sent to Miss T after her application  had been processed.  This letter confirmed 
that she had taken out optional Halifax Credit Card Repayments Cover and enclosed 
her policy schedule. This letter was sent to the same address as detailed on the credit 
card application  which had been completed days before so I think  its likely  that this 
would have been received  by Miss T.
So when taking  into account everything  Ive seen and been  told, I think  its more likely  
that Halifax made Miss T aware  that the policy was optional and that she agreed to take it 
out, knowing she could  refuse it if she didnt want it  although I understand why she may 
not recall this now due to the time that has passed.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Miss T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Miss T has told us she would have received sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to 
work but this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months which  would be in addition to, 
and potentially for longer than, any sick pay she would have received. And it would  also pay 
out for the same length of time if she was to lose her job. As Miss T hasnt told us that she 
had any savings with which  to meet her repayments,  I think  this policy  could have been 
useful to her. 
Ref: DRN71951492Its possible the information Halifax  gave  Miss T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T. 
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because:
Halifax got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss T about  that. Because Halifax  didnt tell Miss T, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss T has said - including what  she has said about  being 
able to ask her partner  and family  to help with her repayments. While I appreciate that 
Miss Ts partner and family would have wanted  to help, support from others cant be 
guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to provide 
such financial assistance. So this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7195149