K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about his home  insurer Ageas Insurance Limited. It refused a claim 
he made in March 2018 for storm damage.
background
Mr A called Ageas on 9 March 2018.  He said water was coming into the house from the 
gable end. Ageas declined the claim during this call  the advisor checked weather data 
and said there hadnt  been a storm. Mr A told the advisor he was unhappy  about  this.
Mr A heard no more  from Ageas. He arranged to carry out some external repairs. He was 
short on funds though so couldnt do all the work  at once. He also wasnt  able to carry out 
any internal repairs.
In September  2018, during a routine audit, Ageas noted it hadnt responded to the 
complaint Mr A had made about  the claim being  declined during his call with it in March  
2018. It checked the weather data and felt its advisor had been wrong to decline the 
claim merely  on the basis  of there  not having been a storm. Ageas re-opened  the claim.
Ageas sent an assessor to Mr As home  to see what work had been  done and what  
remained outstanding.  Ageas determined  that the gable wall was in a poor state of repair 
 with most  of the mortar being in a friable state.  It checked internet images and said the 
condition dated  back to 2008. It felt that if coping stones had come away  from the roof in 
March 2018 it was likely due to the state of the mortar, perhaps being  highlighted by the 
weather. Regarding the internal damage  it felt this had been  going on over a long period. 
Whilst it declined the claim again,  Ageas also paid Mr A £100 compensation for the delay 
and resultant upset  its earlier failure to act had caused. Mr A complained  to us.
Our investigator considered the photos of the property along with the report made by the 
surveyor. He felt Ageas  decline  was fair and reasonable. He said it had never  been  
Ageas responsibility  to set out what repairs Mr A should have done and he noted  Mr A 
didnt have accidental  damage cover, so he said he couldnt make Ageas  complete 
internal repairs. But he felt it should  pay an additional £100 compensation.
Mr A said hed now done some, but not all, internal repairs. He said his property had 
never leaked before the storm. Our investigator said,  whilst that may be, the expert 
evidence from Ageass surveyor was persuasive.
The complaint was passed  to me and whilst  I was satisfied with Ageas  conclusion 
regarding the external  damage,  I felt it should  be considering  the claim for internal 
repairs. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision,  my findings of which  were:
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I think that Ageass evidence regarding the mortar is 
persuasive. I know Mr A said he had no leaks before the storm  but it is sometimes the 
case that storm weather  merely highlights damage which was already there. It would be 
unusual for storm weather  to damage  and weaken  mortar such that coping stones, like 
those on Mr As roof, are unseated and/or so that mortar falls away. That is damage more 
related with long-term wear and tear. And I can see that the mortar which hasnt been 
replaced on the gable end is showing signs of wear  and in places  some  is missing. Im 
not intending to make Ageas cover  the cost of any external repairs   either  that Mr A has 
done or that remain  outstanding.
Ref: DRN70350662But I do think Ageas  has to consider the claim for the internal repairs.  It doesnt matter 
that Mr As policy doesnt cover accidental damage  because the internal  repairs can also 
be considered  under  the cover for storm.
Whilst Ageas has satisfied me that the mortar  has been suffering over the long-term, 
rather than having  been damaged by a one-off incident of storm, its evidence regarding  
the internal damage is less persuasive.  Its report says its likely been going on for a 
long- time.  But it didnt  report on the damage  until six months after the initial  loss was 
reported. And whilst  Mr A did some external repairs during  that time, we dont know for 
sure when those took place. Plus we do know that around and shortly  after the date of 
loss there  was some very bad weather that affected the whole of the country.  Even if 
external repairs were done straight-away,  internal damage caused by water  ingress  will 
get worse if not dealt  with effectively. I dont think its clear  here whether the internal 
damage seen and photographed by Ageas  assessor in September  2018, had been 
ongoing due to it being several  months  since the loss, or because  water was coming in 
prior to the date of loss.
Often, if I cant be satisfied what has most  likely happened, I wont require an insurer  to 
act. But here the lack of clear detail exists  because of Ageas  initial  error in declining the 
claim. If it hadnt then an assessor would have been  sent out in March  2018 and the 
damage as it existed then would have  been  recorded. In this instance  I think  the fair 
outcome is to give Mr A the benefit of the doubt and say Ageas must  accept  liability for 
the internal damage under the cover  for storm.
I know Mr A has now done some internal repairs. Hell have to submit proof of any of his 
costs incurred to Ageas  for it to consider  as part of the claim.  For those  costs  it wont be 
able to settle based on what  it might  have cost it to do the work.
Im not going  to make Ageas pay additional compensation though.  I think  its £100 is fair 
and reasonable.  I know  it was difficult  for Mr A to get the external work done   but he 
would always have  needed to do that. And I dont think he was initially  too upset about 
the decline because  he didnt chase Ageas for a response on this issue   he effectively  
accepted what  it had said. If Mr A didnt  accept the £100 from Ageas before but wants to 
now, he should contact  it. Im not going to make  it pay any more compensation.
Ageas said it accepted  my findings.  Mr A asked what would happen if he didnt have  
proof of the costs  hed incurred for completing  some  of the internal work. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ageas has accepted my findings,  and Mr A hasnt raised any objection  to them, I see 
no need to move away from what I said provisionally. I remain satisfied that Ageas isnt 
liable for the external repairs but that it needs to consider the claim as it relates  to internal 
damage.
Mr A doesnt  necessarily have to present  receipts to Ageas  to evidence his outlay.  He 
may have  proof contained within bank statements, for example, that will show what  he 
purchased. But, at this stage, it will be for Ageas  to consider what Mr A is able to show  he 
Ref: DRN70350663has spent and decide what fair settlement  looks like given whatever evidence and 
information Mr A provides  it. Id urge Ageas  to afford  Mr A the benefit of the doubt where 
reasonable given the position he is in is due to its initial delay  and unfair refusal to accept 
this part of his claim.  Ultimately as Im requiring Ageas to only now consider the claim, if 
Mr A is unhappy with any settlement it offers for the work he has done, then he will be 
able to make  a further complaint. 
Of course there  is also the matter of any outstanding repairs for internal damage for 
Ageas to consider  and it may be that it chooses  to complete that work rather  than pay 
for Mr A to do it. If Mr A insists on doing the work himself then the policy  terms would 
allow Ageas to settle based on what it would cost it to complete the work.  But again, once 
Ageas has considered the situation, and told Mr A what it intends to do, if he is unhappy, 
he can make  a further complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to consider Mr As claim 
for internal damage under cover for storm, in line with my comments above and the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2020..
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7035066