K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that the terms of the hire purchase  financed by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services  were misrepresented.  He says he 
wasnt told about penalty charges. He wants a refund of any overpayments and 
compensation.
background
Mr R tells us he acquired  the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as T in May 2018.  He says 
the deal was financed through a hire purchase agreement with Audi.  And it was terminated  
at the end of July 2018. Mr R complains that the settlement figure due on the early 
termination was miscalculated. And that penalty  charges have been applied which he wasnt 
warned about.  He says that he was persuaded by T to maintain the agreement beyond  the 
14 day cooling off period. And that he hasnt been  supplied with an explanation of how 
interest and charges have been calculated.
Audi told us that in July 2018  Mr R had called and discussions  had been held about early 
repayments of the agreement. It said this led to a settlement figure being generated on 28 
July 2018. And Mr R had settled the agreement on 30 July 2018.  It said that Mr R had raised 
a complaint in August. Audi said it had issued a certificate to show the breakdown  of capital  
and interest. It explained that it hadnt  applied a penalty or additional  interest charge to the 
settlement figure. And that the settlement figure had been calculated in accordance  with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said that she 
was satisfied that the key terms of the agreement were set out and explained. And that as 
Mr R had signed both the agreement and the Pre-contractual Checklist  she thought hed be 
aware of the costs  of settlement. She didnt  think thered been a misrepresentation of the 
agreement. Nor did she think  penalty  charges had been applied.
Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome. He didnt think our adjudicator had provided any 
supporting evidence for her conclusions. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr R is dissatisfied with the way in which the termination of his agreement was 
administered by Audi. And that (as he sees it) the agreement had been misrepresented.
I expect it will come as little consolation  to Mr R to be advised  that its not unusual  for this 
service to receive complaints about the calculations arising from the early  termination of 
finance agreements. And that very often the complaints are about the interest  charges which 
relate to a period of 58 days included within the settlement figure.
Having looked  at Mr Rs complaint I think  it raises a number of separate issues.  And Ill try to 
deal with these  whilst  giving the reasons for my decision. But if I dont comment upon an 
individual item its not that I havent  taken  it on board. Its just I dont think I need to make a 
separate reference to it in order to reach my decision.
Ref: DRN73063662Im aware that Mr R and our adjudicator exchanged  lengthy correspondence about  various  
aspects of the complaint. I dont intend to repeat this here as both parties are aware of the 
content. Broadly  speaking I agree with the comments expressed by our adjudicator as to the 
limits of the role of this service. As she explained there are areas raised  by Mr R which 
wouldnt be within our jurisdiction to act upon.  This service is not the regulator  for the finance  
industry. So we have no say as to which individuals or businesses  are authorised or in what 
areas. Nor do we have  any direct authority over sales practices or administrative processes.
I note that during this complaint Mr R has made reference to the law along  with
his interpretation  of how it should  be applied  to these circumstances. I should  explain that I 
dont apply the law - directly - in the same way as a court might do. But I do take it into 
account. Relevant law here includes the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution
Rules (DISP). These can be found  in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what  is, In his opinion, fair and
reasonable In all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take Into account relevant (my underlining):
 law and regulations:
 regulators  rules  guidance and standards:
 codes  of practice:
and  (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good Industry practice at the time.
Ill start by dealing with the circumstances at the time the agreement was incepted.  
Obviously I cant say what was discussed verbally.  But one of the reasons why regulated  
credit agreements are put in writing is to retain a record of what the parties agreed at the 
time. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer into entering  into
an agreement and suffering a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. Its also possible in 
very limited situations for a misrepresentation to occur as a result of an omission.
For example that might  occur in the case of a half truth  where  the statement made was 
correct - as far as it went. But it didnt reveal the true state of affairs.
Where facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions  on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN73063663The finance  agreement sets out at section 6 the right to withdraw within 14 days. Mr R didnt 
withdraw from the agreement within that time.  Ive seen  nothing to make  me think  he wasnt  
aware, or ought  not reasonably to have  been aware,  of his rights  in this respect.  Although he 
says he was persuaded  not to exercise  this option  I cant see any reason why he wasnt 
free to choose  as he saw fit.
The right to settle the agreement early is set out at section 7. And ultimately Mr R exercised 
this option.
Ive also seen a copy of the Pre-contractual  Explanations Checklist  which  Mr R has signed.
Amongst the relevant  contents are:
I confirm I have read or have been  provided  with:
 An explanation  of the right to withdraw  from the finance agreement and when this right 
may be exercised.
 An explanation  of how interest  is charged should I wish to settle  my finance  agreement 
early.
Taken together Im satisfied that Mr R was given sufficient information  on which to base his 
decision to proceed  with the agreement.  And I dont think theres any plausible evidence  of 
any misrepresentation.
Nor do I find theres anything to support  the view that Audi have applied penalty  charges. Or 
that it miscalculated the final settlement  figure. Where a finance agreement is terminated  
early, statute requires the settlement figure is calculated using a set formula  contained within  
the regulations.  The purpose is to reduce the amount  of interest  payable  under the 
agreement to take into account  that the capital sum is being repaid earlier than due. The 
relevant regulations being the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.
Regulation 5 reads (my underlining):
(1)The settlement date for calculation of the rebate  in regulation  4 shall be taken to be
(a)where the debtor has given notice under [section 94(1)]2 of the Act with a view to  
discharging his indebtedness  under the agreement, the date falling 28 days  after 
the date on which  the notice was received  by the creditor, or any later date 
specified as the date of early settlement in the notice, if the debtor pays  the 
amount in question  (less any rebate allowable under these Regulations) not later 
than that date;
Regulation 6 reads:
Ref: DRN730636646. Deferment of settlement date
(1)  Where the agreement provides for the credit to be repaid over,  or at the end of, a period 
which is more than a year after the relevant date,  the settlement  date for calculation of the 
rebate may be deferred by
(a)  one month, or
(b)where the length of a months deferment  would be more or less than 30 days and 
the creditor so elects, 30 days.
The combined effect of the regulations is that the settlement date can be deferred by 58 
days and interest for this period  can be included  in the settlement figure. 
The calculation formula is set out in regulation 4. As its so complex the process itself is 
almost invariably automated. And Ive no reason to doubt the figures which  Audi determined 
were accurate. 
Ive concluded  that what Mr R describes as penalty charges is the sum arising from the 58 
days period of deferment contained within the Early  Settlement Regulations. Audi was 
required to calculate  the settlement amount in accordance with these regulations.  And it was 
entitled to include  the interest due for this period. That amounted to £139.98.
Ive seen information to show that Audi has also provided Mr R with a statement  setting  out 
the breakdown  of capital and interest repayments.
In summary,  I find theres insufficient information  to show that there was any 
misrepresentation of the finance  agreement. Where a consumer signs a statement  to the 
effect that theyve  been given specific information  relating  to the agreement, its fair and 
reasonable for a business to rely on this. And Id expect a consumer  to make enquiries 
before signing  if they were unclear  about  anything in the documents.
I accept that Mr R will be disappointed by my decision. But I think  Audi acted fairly during the 
process of administering the early termination of his agreement. And Ive seen nothing  to 
show that any errors were  made in the calculation of the settlement figure.  Accordingly Im 
not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7306366