K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Virgin Money  plc moved  his credit card to an account with a lower limit. 
background
Mr A had a credit  card account with Virgin Money.  In the past hed had a limit of £50000. But 
Virgin Money stopped  providing the product Mr A was using. And itd transferred him to a 
different account  with a limit of £25000.
Mr A said hed applied  for an increased  limit. But despite a high income and strong credit 
score Virgin Money had declined the increase. So Mr A would like an explanation.
Virgin Money said Mr A had applied for a credit  card on 12 June 2018. The application had 
been successful  and Mr A had been accepted with a credit  limit of £25000. Itd considered 
Mr As request for an increase in his credit  limit. But itd made the decision not to increase 
the limit on the account. And it wasnt  obliged  to disclose its lending criteria  or provide an 
exact reason for its decision.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied with Virgin Moneys response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the terms and conditions of Mr As 
account. And it stated  Virgin Money would take into account a number of factors  when 
considering an increase.  But itd taken a commercial  decision not to increase Mr As limit at 
this time. And she didnt  think itd acted unfairly or made any mistakes.
Mr A didnt agree. Hed provided evidence of a high credit score and substantial  assets.  And 
he wants to know the real reason hed been declined.  So hes asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration. He has a strong credit rating and says he has substantial  
assets and a high income.  So he doesnt think Virgin Money has a valid reason for not 
increasing his limit.
When Virgin Money declined the request it explained it considered  a combination  of factors 
when deciding the credit  limit. Mr A said its only explanation was to suggest the customer 
check their credit rating.  But that cant be the reason as he has a very high score.  And he 
wants to know the real reason behind Virgin Moneys decision. 
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr A and Virgin Money have said.  But its important to 
realise the role of this service is to see if Virgin  Money has made any mistakes. And if it has 
what it needs to do to put things right. Its not our role to tell Virgin Money how to run its 
business. Thats the role of its regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority.
Virgin Money has explained it looks at a number  of different factors  when considering  the 
limit on credit card accounts. And each business will have its own criteria and factors  when 
considering how much to lend customers.  These might include  income,  expenditure, 
patterns of use and information from external sources such  as credit reference agencies.
Ref: DRN73495462But each lender will have  its own criteria  to consider.  And the specific  reasons behind  Virgin  
Moneys decision are considered commercially sensitive. Thats not something I can ask 
Virgin Money to put aside.
Virgin Money declined  Mr As request for an increase at present. But the business has said 
he can reapply after a six month period.  Although it cant guarantee the limit will be 
increased.
I appreciate Mr A feels there is no valid reason why Virgin Money  cant increase his limit 
now. But as Ive explained each lender determines how much  it wants  to lend based  on its 
own criteria. And I cant ask the lender  to disclose those criteria.
I realise Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But Ive not seen  anything  to suggest 
Virgin Money hasnt  followed its procedures correctly. 
I hope this shows  Ive fully investigated  the complaint  and the reasons behind  my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7349546