K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs C say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)   mis-sold  them  the PPI. The PPI 
covered Mr C only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs C feel strongly that the optional  nature of the PPI wasnt  explained. Ive seen 
a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage  application   where PPI has been  selected. Mr and 
Mrs C have both signed this form, so I think its likely to reflect what  they wanted. Theres 
nothing on the paperwork from the sale to suggest  the PPI was compulsory or a 
condition of the lending. On balance  I think B&B made it clear  that Mr and Mrs C didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand  
why they cant  remember this.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs C got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like 
he (as sole policy holder)  was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful if something  went wrong. 
Mr C says he had some  sick pay and couldve relied on family  to help make his 
repayments but the PPI wouldve covered him for up to 12 months if he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. And having  the PPI wouldve 
meant he wouldnt have to rely on his family   whose ability to help would depend on 
their own circumstances at any given time. Incidentally I can see that he made a 
successful claim  during a period  of illness in 2006. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:  
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN79486242To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said including  what theyve said about  
assuming Mrs C would  be covered by the policy when she resumed work. Mrs C doesnt 
appear to have been working at the time of sale, so she wouldnt  have  been  eligible for the 
PPI. Upon her return to work Mr and Mrs C couldve chosen to add her to the policy  but it 
was up to them to arrange this with B&B. Mr and Mrs Cs offer letter makes it clear  that only 
Mr C is covered by the policy,  and theres nothing on the paperwork to suggest that Mrs C 
would be automatically  added at a later date. So I dont think  this means the PPI was mis-
sold. 
what the business needs  to do
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford and Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
But Bradford  and Bingley Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948624