K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that the kitchen she acquired  through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)) was not 
of satisfactory quality.
background
Ms T entered into a loan agreement with BPF in February 2017 to part-fund  the acquisition  
of a kitchen. She says that certain items  were  not delivered and that the quality was not as 
shown in the showroom. She says she had to compromise on several occasions (due to 
issues such as the product  she ordered not being available  in the colour  she had chosen) 
and says she is left with a kitchen that is not what she ordered.
Ms T has provided  details  of a number of issues  that have occurred with her kitchen over a 
period of months and the issues  that are still outstanding. She says these  have caused  her a 
great deal of stress and inconvenience  and she has lost faith in the kitchen supplier. 
BPF says that Ms T visited  the suppliers showroom on 25 January 2017 and a plan for her 
kitchen was created.  An updated  version  was then created on 30 January. On 1 February,  
Ms T submitted her kitchen measurements. On 21 February she received  a supply only 
contract, and the loan was arranged.
Delivery was arranged  for 15 March.  On 28 March Ms T told the supplier that there were 
items missing and it agreed  to deliver  these on 29 March. On 4 April, Ms T told the supplier 
of further items missing  and these were  arranged to be delivered on 19 April.  On 10 April 
Ms T said she had the wrong tap on order  and the supplier arranged  for the alternative tap to 
be delivered. NB. BPF says that as this was not part of the original purchase order it has no 
liability for this. 
Further items were then delivered to Ms T for an additional charge following discussions with 
the supplier. BPF says these items  did not form part of the original contract. Further items 
that were identified as being missing from the original order  were then delivered on 22 May 
and then again on 31 May. Then,  due to Ms T saying certain  items  were damaged, a further 
delivery took place  on 6 June.
The supplier  then sent an email to Ms T asking for a list of all missing/required  items.  Ms T 
sent through photographs on 30 June. Further items were  then delivered  on 17 July. 
In March 2018, Ms T raised  her complaint and the supplier carried  out an inspection report. It 
says this set out a number of findings,  including that Ms T has asked for a product  that was 
not available;  that she was responsible for ensuring that items ordered were measured  
correctly; and she has received what she ordered.  It further stated that Ms T made  changes  
to her worktop order at the templating stage.
BPF says that Ms T signed the purchase contract confirming she was happy with the terms. 
It says the contract  sets out that Ms T is required  to review her order and confirm the plan is 
correct and that her installer should  check all measurements.  It further says that Ms T should 
advise of any discrepancies  or damage within 28 days. 
BPF said that due to the issues Ms T had experienced  the supplier offered a 10% reduction 
for the kitchen cost.  The supplier also offered to replace the affected  doors  and cover  
Ref: DRN73680352reasonable fitting costs, along  with paying £100  as a gesture of goodwill. BPF says this offer 
is fair and reasonable.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He accepted  that it was Ms Ts responsibility to check 
the measurements were  correct and all appliances  were suitable, but said that Ms T was still 
sent multiple incorrect items. He acknowledged the timespan over which Ms T raised the 
issues but accepted it would not be possible for her to identify all the issues  at delivery  and 
that only as the installation  took place would they all become apparent.
Our investigator put BPFs offer of replacing  the affected doors and reasonable fitting costs, 
plus £100 gesture  of goodwill, to Ms T. But she said that she didnt want to continue to use 
the supplier and wished to use an alternative provider. BPF said this wasnt possible  and our 
investigator agreed. 
As the suggested  offer was not accepted our investigator recommended that Ms T keep the 
kitchen and receive a 20% reduction to the cost,  along  with the replacement of any faulty or 
incorrect items and with reasonable fitting  costs. He also recommended that Ms T be paid 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience  she had been caused.
BPF responded to our investigators view. It said that it was not liable for any items  that Ms T 
and her fitter failed  to order correctly. It noted 20 items  that were  missing from the initial  
delivery, and formed part of the contract,  and said that these were subsequently delivered 
and that there was only damage to the handles and one door.  It said that Ms T could have 
checked the items at delivery  and that even if she herself was not aware of the issues, she 
had a fitter that could have checked them.  
BPF did not consider a 20% reduction in the cost of the kitchen was reasonable.
Ms T did not accept our investigators  view either. She said she didnt want  to keep the 
kitchen and she had lost faith in the kitchen supplier. She said the issue  had caused her 
stress and anxiety and that she had incurred costs  due to needing to eat out or have 
takeaway food for an extended period while the issues with her kitchen were ongoing.
Ms T also said that she was not told that it was her responsibility to take the measurements 
and that she was told a time would be arranged for this to happen. She says the 
measurements were taken twice. She said that when she raised issues she was promised 
these would be put right at no extra  charge. Ms T suggested further options that she would 
accept as resolution to her complaint,  including a refund of 70% of the cost of the kitchen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T entered into a loan agreement with BPF to partly finance  the acquisition  of a kitchen. 
Under the regulations, BPF can be held liable if the kitchen provided was misrepresented or 
if there was a breach of contract.
In this case Ms T entered into a supply only contract  and arranged  for her own fitters to 
install the kitchen.  I have looked  at the supply contract and this says that Ms T or her fitters  
should check that the plan is correct and that the correct cabinets  and appliances have been 
Ref: DRN73680353ordered. Also that all measurements  are correct. It further says that any discrepancies  or 
damage should be notified  within 28 days.
I note Ms Ts comments about  the supplier taking  measurements, but given the 
requirements in the agreement, which Ms T has read and initialled, I think it reasonable to 
accept that Ms T was aware  she herself  needed  to check that all measurements and items 
were correct. Therefore  I do not find I can say that BPF is responsible for issues  that arose 
from errors in the kitchen  design.
The kitchen was delivered on 15 March. I have looked at the delivery  receipt and this 
records that certain items were not in that delivery, and these would follow. Ms T contacted  
the supplier in March  and then again  in April about missing  items. These  were  then 
delivered. Ms T also changed the order regarding her tap. I can see that on the contract a 
different tap is recorded to the one BPF says Ms T said she wanted  in April 2017. Ms T then 
asked for additional  items.
During May 2017,  Ms T raised further issues with items that were missing  from her original 
delivery. I appreciate  the comments BPF has made  that Ms T should  have  raised these 
issues on her first call to the supplier and the note in the agreement regarding  having 28 
days to raise issues. However, I accept that Ms T experienced  issued with items not being 
delivered that delayed the installation of her kitchen. And while  I think  she could have carried  
out a more detailed check given she found items  missing shortly after delivery, and that this 
may have  reduced  delays, it is possible that these things only came  to light at a later date.
Due to ongoing  problems with the kitchen a site visit was arranged. I have looked at the 
report and this shows that there were still a number of outstanding issues. I note the 
comments about the changes Ms T made to the worktop and about other work undertaken. 
However, given the issues that are noted in the report along with the amount of items that 
were missing from the initial delivery,  I accept that the kitchen originally delivered was not as 
Ms T had ordered and expected.
Ms T has raised  a number of comments about having  to make compromises following the 
initial design  and delivery, and her not feeling  as though she has the quality of kitchen she 
ordered. I have  taken into account Ms Ts responsibilities in regard to the items  ordered and 
the design however I still find, given  the amount of issues she has experienced and the 
number of adjustments she has had to make, that it is reasonable she is compensated for 
this.
Ms T has put forward  a number of resolutions that she would consider. BPF has also made  
an offer which was in line with our investigators view, aside from the level of the price  
reduction. I have considered all of these options.
I understand Ms Ts comments about  not wanting  to keep  the kitchen, but I also accept that 
she entered into the supply only agreement and was responsible herself for checking the 
plan and the items before delivery. Missing items have now been  delivered and the kitchen  
has been installed. Therefore, at this stage  I think the fairest and most  pragmatic  solution  is 
for the kitchen to remain in place.
I understand that the supplier has offered to replace  any faulty or incorrect  items and cover  
any reasonable cost of installation. I find this reasonable. I note the comments  made  by BPF 
about which items are covered under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75) and 
Ref: DRN73680354agree that these  are the items that were part of the original  contract  for which the loan 
financing was provided. 
Ms T has repaid the financing and says that 70% of the price should  be refunded to her. BPF 
says it should  be 10%,  as offered by the supplier. 
Given the cumulative  issues Ms T experienced and the number of items  that were  missing 
from her original order I do not think that 10% is sufficient. That said, given the kitchen has 
now been delivered I do not think that Ms Ts request for a 70% refund  is fair or 
proportionate. I think a refund of 20% is reasonable. I say this because Ms T has suffered 
trouble and upset  by the missing and damaged  items, and I also accept that she felt she had 
compromise on the kitchen due to certain originally  ordered items not being available.
Ms T has also said that offer of £250 for distress and inconvenience  is not enough.  I note the 
comments she has made about the time taken for the kitchen to be installed. However, I also 
note that when she notified  the supplier about missing items  these were then delivered in a 
timely way. Had she notified all missing items at the outset  then the kitchen may have been 
installed sooner.  That said, she has been  caused  inconvenience and I find the £250 
recommended is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Clydesdale Financial  
Services Limited (trading  as Barclays Partner  Finance)  should:
refund  Ms T 20% of the total cost of the original kitchen;
replace any faulty or incorrect outstanding items  at no cost to Ms T and cover  
reasonable fitting costs (Ms T to obtain 3 quotes); and
pay Ms T £250  for the distress  and inconvenience she has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7368035