K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs J had planned to go on a trip abroad in May 2018. They  booked  their trip in 
January 2018  and paid the balance in early March 2018. A few weeks before their trip was 
due to take place their daughter in law was told the hospital could do nothing more for her 
and sadly she passed away  in May 2018.  To avoid any confusion  I will refer to 
Mr and Mrs Js late daughter  in law as Ms A.
Due to the tragic and sudden decline  in Ms As health Mr and Mrs J cancelled their trip and 
made a claim under  their Aviva policy for the related  costs.  Aviva declined the claim, saying 
it excluded any claims where  the policyholder knew that their travel plans may be disrupted.  
And it said Mr and Mrs J knew Ms A had been diagnosed with cancer  in 2015 and was 
receiving ongoing  treatment at the time of the booking. So it said Mr and Mrs J would  know 
this could have  disrupted their travel plans.
Mr and Mrs J said this wasnt fair as they couldnt have reasonably known  the trip would be 
disrupted. They said while Ms A had been diagnosed with cancer  she had been receiving 
treatment. And theyd been  told that she was stable,  doing well and had been given a 
number of years left to live at the time they booked their holiday and paid the balance. They 
told us unfortunately  Ms As condition deteriorated very rapidly, and unexpectedly, shortly 
before Mr and Mrs Js planned trip.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and upheld  it. She said it was reasonable 
for Aviva to consider the exclusion  it had relied  on, but given its exclusion was broad she 
said it needed to demonstrate what Mr and Mrs J knew  about  Ms As health at the time.
The investigator said it seemed Ms As condition was stable when Mr and Mrs J booked their 
trip. And there was no indication this would suddenly change.  In the absence  of conflicting 
evidence, she felt it was unfair for Aviva to rely on this exclusion as it had. So she asked it to 
pay the claim subject to policy limits and excesses.
Mr and Mrs J agreed  with the assessment. But Aviva disagreed and said it had listened  to 
the calls with Mr and Mrs J in which they confirmed they were aware Ms A had been given a 
terminal diagnosis. 
Our investigator looked again and said there was no dispute that Ms A had a serious 
condition. But she said Mr and Mrs J were reliant on information they were given by Ms A 
and their son indicating  she was doing  well. And the investigator said overall  there wasnt 
clear evidence to show  Mr and Mrs J knew treatments for Ms A had failed until after the 
booking.
In response Aviva said Mr and Mrs J knew Ms A had a terminal diagnosis and that she was 
receiving treatment. So they said Mr and Mrs J were aware this condition  could have 
reasonably affected  their travel plans. They also said Mr and Mrs J shouldve  told them 
about Ms As condition  when they booked  the trip or paid the balance.  
So the complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN72421362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  
Mr and Mrs Js policy includes  cover for cancellation of a trip or coming home early. This 
provides cover for a number of situations,  which includes the death of a close  relative. And 
the policy includes daughter in law within its definition of a close relative. So Im satisfied 
Ms As death was an event that allowed  Mr and Mrs J to claim on their policy.
As with most insurance policies, this includes  certain exclusions. Aviva  has sought to rely on 
the following  exclusion, saying the insurance does not cover:
 Any claim where you knew at the time of taking out the M&S Premium Club 
membership or booking your trip (whichever is later) that your  travel plans may be 
disrupted.
This means  if Mr and Mrs J knew their travel  plans may be disrupted  for any reason  
when taking out the policy or booking their trip, the policy wont cover them. 
So with that in mind, Ive considered this exclusion  while  also taking into account whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
In this case I think its important to consider what Mr and Mrs J knew when they booked their 
trip. Theyve  said before booking the trip they checked in with their son and Ms A to see how 
she was. Theyve given detailed, and I think credible,  testimony explaining they were told 
that she was doing  well.
I also note that Ms A had been  diagnosed  in 2015 and the evidence from Mr and Mrs J 
suggests it is most likely  that whilst shed been  receiving treatment her overall  health  had 
been relatively stable.  I can also see Mr and Mrs J booked a long haul trip which cost around 
£5,000. So that further persuades  me that they thought its unlikely  there was a risk of their 
trip not going  ahead.  
Aviva has made reference to two calls in which they discussed the claim with Mr J and 
asked him about  Ms As condition. Within these calls Mr J made  reference  to the ongoing 
treatment Ms A was having, and says while he knew the condition would eventually  take 
Ms As life, he had believed she had years remaining until a sudden deterioration. I note that 
Mr J explained this decline happened after hed paid the final balance and Im persuaded by 
his evidence on this point. 
Aviva has said because  Mr and Mrs J had an idea about Ms As life expectancy  it meant the 
condition was terminal. And therefore  they should  be on notice that something couldve 
happened. 
I think its reasonable that Mr and Mrs J would  ask the questions  they did of their son before 
booking a trip of this nature in order to decide  whether  to go ahead  with it. And I think  this is 
plausible and persuasive testimony  supported  by the calls Aviva has highlighted. In those 
Ref: DRN72421363calls Mr J explained hed spoken  to his son, particularly because  theyd  want  to be on hand  
for their grandchildren if something  happened to Ms A. 
I accept its possible Mr and Mrs J may not have been told all the details  of Ms As health 
and treatment over time. But based on what theyve said, the calls Aviva  has provided, and 
everything Ive seen Im satisfied they took steps  to check on Ms As health before booking  
to satisfy themselves  there wouldnt be a likely impact on their trip. 
Ive also considered that the trip was due to take place around  five months after booking.  So 
I think this supports that they didnt believe there was a risk that Ms As health  would  
deteriorate and she would pass away. 
Im persuaded that they believed her condition was stable and she had many years  ahead of 
her. Im not persuaded they knew at the time they booked their trip, or paid for it, their travel 
plans may be disrupted because of Ms As health. And as a result  I dont  think its fair and 
reasonable for this claim to be declined.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint  and my final decision  is for Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do the following:
reopen and settle this disputed claim (subject  to policy excesses, sums assured and 
policy limits);
pay 8% simple interest on any sums given directly to Mr and Mrs J, calculated from 
the date the claim  was declined  until the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Aviva to take off tax from this interest.  Aviva  must give 
Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019. 
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7242136