K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008 
alongside a loan. Mr A says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr A says the PPI was added without his knowledge and consent. But based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think Lloyds made  it clear  that Mr A didnt have  to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why he cant  remember this now. I 
say this because  Ive seen a copy of his credit agreement which  shows that Mr A ticked  and 
signed to agree to the PPI being  added. This signature is separate  and additional to his 
signature to agree to the loan  so I think this reflected  what  he wanted  at the time. 
Our adjudicator assessed this case as an advised sale, and neither  party  responded to 
dispute this. So Ive also considered this to have been an advised sale in my decision. This 
means Lloyds had to check  that the PPI was right for Mr A  and based on what  Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mr A says he had some  sick pay from work and also had an income protection policy  in 
place to help him make  his repayments  if he was unable  to work. But the PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of his sick pay, and for longer than this wouldve lasted. Meaning these funds 
were available for other expenses. We contacted Mr As representative  to ask for some  
evidence of the income protection  policy that he says was in place  at the time, but at the 
time of writing weve not received  a response, so Ive not seen  enough evidence  to be 
persuaded that this policy was in place at the time and that it covered Mr A for the same 
things as the PPI.  
The credit agreement shows that the cost of Mr As PPI policy was made clear to him as it 
sets out the premium, the interest  on the premium,  the total cost and the monthly  cost.
Its possible some of the other information  Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. This includes  the fact that he wouldnt  have been given a proportionate 
refund if he had cancelled his policy or repaid his loan early.  A Lloyds internal screen shot 
recorded the loan as being taken out for home improvements, and on Mr As PPI 
questionnaire, he also said that the funds were for home improvements. Following our initial  
assessment, Mr As representative contacted  us to tell us that the loan was partly  used for 
refinancing. So we contacted it to ask for more information about the loan and to ask how 
much of the loan was for consolidating other debts, in order to decide if it was fair for Lloyds 
to recommend a single premium loan to Mr A. But we didnt receive a response. So based 
on the information I do have, Im not persuaded that the loan was taken out for the purpose 
of refinancing. So I dont think Lloyds did anything  wrong by recommending  Mr A take out a 
single premium policy. And for the same  reasons  I think Lloyds recommendation was 
Ref: DRN72812822suitable, it looks like the policy  would have been  useful for him if something  went wrong. So I 
dont think better information  wouldve led him to make a different decision to the one he 
made in 2008.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Lloyds will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr A any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr A the extra he paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr A paid if the loan was paid off early. Lloyds  should also pay Mr A 8%* simple interest on 
the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN72812823Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7281282