K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  Legal & General  Insurance Limited  handled their home  insurance  
claim poorly and hasnt offered them enough to settle it.
background
In March 2019 I issued a provisional decision. Ive attached a copy. It forms part of this final 
decision. In it I said it was reasonable for L&G to provide a cash settlement for 
Mr and Mrs Fs kitchen,  based on discounted  rates it would pay its own suppliers. But I said 
it wasnt reasonable for it pay only 50% of the replacement cost of six kitchen doors.  I said it 
should the full cost  an extra £460.  I also asked Mr and Mrs F and L&G to provide any 
further information they would like me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs F provided more information to explain why it wasnt  reasonable for discounted 
rates to be paid. L&G didnt  accept  it should pay the full cost of the six doors.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about L&Gs response to what I said about the six replacement  doors. But it 
hasnt changed  my mind. What we think is fair will depend on the individual  circumstances.  
In this case I dont think  a matching sets approach will be. So L&G will need  to pay the full 
cost of replacing the doors  an extra £460.  
Mr and Mrs F provided more information about L&Gs contractors performance, problems 
with communications  and the impact on their health. Ive considered what  they say but I 
dont think they had no choice but to cash settle. So I still think  it was reasonable for L&G to 
cash settle at the discounted rate.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Legal & General Insurance Limited will need  to pay 
Mr and Mrs F an extra £460  for the kitchen doors.  
Legal and General Insurance  Limited   needs  to pay this within  28 days  of us telling it 
Mr and Mrs Fs accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest to 
the compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision to the date it makes  
payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman 
1 If Legal and General Insurance Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs F how much its taken off. It should  also 
give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  
& Customs if appropriate.   
Ref: DRN70605622
Ref: DRN70605623PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  Legal & General Insurance Limited handled their home  insurance claim  poorly 
and hasnt offered them enough to settle it.
background
In August 2017 Mr and Mrs F had an escape of water in their home. They  claimed on their L&G home  
insurance policy. Mrs F complained about how long it was taking and was unhappy with a cash 
settlement that had been offered. Our investigator said we couldnt  comment  on the cash settlement 
at that point. But he felt L&G should increase  its offer of compensation  from £100 to £250. Both L&G 
and Mrs F accepted that. This complaint  looks at whats happened  with the claim  since November 
2017. 
In April 2018  L&G responded to a complaint  from Mr and Mrs F. It paid a further £500 for trouble and 
upset it caused. It agreed to replace a fridge freezer. In May 2018 L&G responded  to another  
complaint. It increased  the cash  settlement by about £2,400 and paid an extra £50 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with the two responses so they came  to this service. Our investigator 
didnt agree  that L&G needed to repair  or replace  an external door. He thought the compensation  paid 
by L&G was enough. But he said it should settle, for certain items, by paying a market  value rather  
than a discounted rate L&G could replace them for.   
Mr and Mrs F were  happy with the cash settlement proposal. But they didnt accept  what the 
investigator said about the external door and compensation. L&G didnt agree to pay market rates  for 
the items. So the complaint  has come  to me for a final decision. Ive already  given my initial thoughts  
on the complaint to L&G and Mr and Mrs F. Ive considered their responses and issued a provisional 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs F want the cash settlement paid at a rate that they would have to pay for items or work  
rather that at the discounted  rate L&G would  pay. The investigator said that should happen for some  
items that werent mentioned in an original  schedule of works. That was because he felt they had 
been damaged by L&Gs  contractors negligence  - rather than as a result of the escape of water. But I 
accept L&Gs explanation that the original schedule  of works was based on a best case scenario. And 
that it always  considered  it possible some items would  unavoidably be damaged during repair  works 
on the kitchen, for instance when removing  a unit. It says any such  items would be added to the 
schedule  so shouldnt be considered as being damaged by its negligence.  That seems reasonable  
to me.  
 
Mr and Mrs Fs policy says if they prefer to cash settle then L&G wont usually  pay more than it would 
have cost it to replace  or repair an item through its own supplier. But they say L&Gs contractors 
performance left them with no choice  but to cash settle for the remaining work. So they feel the entire  
cash settlement should be at market  rate. In some circumstances I might say that would be 
reasonable. But I dont for this complaint.  
I wont repeat in detail what Mr and Mrs F feel went wrong. They talk of mess, inconvenience and 
additional damage. But unfortunately a certain amount of that is common and inevitable with a claim  
of this nature. I accept they experienced more than was necessary or might be expected.  But they 
havent made  me think it was so excessive  or unreasonable that they had no choice but to cash 
settle. 
Ref: DRN70605624Mr and Mrs F say a discounted cash settlement for a fridge freezer is unfair. They  had nowhere  to 
store a replacement, offered  by L&G, whilst repairs took place to the kitchen. But I think  it would have 
been reasonable to ask L&G to delay providing a replacement until works had finished. I havent seen 
that they did that. So Im not making L&G pay Mr and Mrs F the difference between the discounted 
rate and market rate for any items. But it will need to increase the cash settlement for a different 
reason. 
Mr and Mrs F kitchen  had a total of about 26 pieces. This was made up of units and their doors. 20 of 
them were damaged. L&G settled these  at 100% of its discounted rate. But its paid only 50% for the 
undamaged six. This service  does often decide its reasonable for insurers  to pay something like 50% 
for undamaged matching  items. But in this case so much of the kitchen is damaged that the 
reasonable approach is to consider that it should  be replaced entirely. So L&G will need to pay the full 
(discounted rate) for the six - based on what its paid already and the schedule of works that will be an 
extra £460.
Ive considered L&Gs  response to this. It asks if this service now requires it to pay more than 50% for 
undamaged items when  a significant portion of the total is damaged. What we think  is fair will depend  
on the individual circumstances. In this case,  for the reason given above,  I dont think a matching sets 
approach will be.  
    
I havent seen enough to make me think L&Gs contractors damaged the external  door. So Im not 
going to make  it pay for its replacement  or repair. 
L&G paid Mr and Mrs F £50 compensation after its most recent  complaint response. They  say thats  
not enough. But its actually paid them a total of £800  during this claim. Mr and Mrs F described a 
number of things L&G did wrong and have explained the impact. But overall I think its paid enough  to 
recognise the unnecessary trouble and upset its caused so far. So Im not making it pay any extra.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to require Legal & General Insurance Limited to pay an extra  
£460 for the kitchen doors. 
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7060562