K820x#14complaint
In summary  Mr C complains that in December 2018,  National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
temporarily froze his bank account. This affected the functioning of his account  and he had 
to borrow money from family  and friends.  He was kept on hold when phoning NatWest and 
had to call it twice in January  2019.
background
In December 2018 NatWest put a restriction on Mr Cs account when he tried to make a 
bank transfer, as it was concerned about activity on it. Mr C was able to provide enhanced  
identification to NatWest and confirm the same day that the activity was genuine.  So 
NatWest removed the restriction on his account  and the transfer took place shortly after. 
Unhappy with his account being  blocked, Mr C complained to NatWest. It didnt uphold his 
complaint and explained that in order to protect  customers accounts; it needed to be 
satisfied a caller and any activity on an account  was genuine. It apologised that Mr C had 
experienced problems when contacting it in January 2019, and reimbursed him the call costs 
for the time he had said hed spent on the phone.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Cs concerns. She explained why she didnt think  Mr Cs 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr C wasnt happy with her answer so the complaint has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of complaints about his banking  arrangements.  And this service  is 
considering those complaints separately. On the complaint form Mr C completed for this 
complaint, hes referred to another bank account  and other issues of concern including the 
non-payment of a direct debit. For the avoidance of any doubt, my consideration here is 
solely in respect of Mr Cs concerns that Ive summarised  above.  If Mr C wants  to pursue the 
other points  he has made, he will need to raise them with NatWest  in the first instance if he 
hasnt already done so.
In relation to the bank transfer Mr C tried to make in December 2018, I can understand that it 
must have  been  very frustrating for him to have the restriction placed  on his account.  But 
NatWest needs  to take appropriate security measures to protect Mr Cs account  against 
potential fraud. So I dont think it was unreasonable of it to put the restriction on Mr Cs 
account to protect  him, if it had concerns about  activity on his account.
NatWest gave Mr C the number of its fraud department. Mr C contacted  it and was able to 
provide the required enhanced identification to NatWest  to assure it that the transaction was 
genuine. Mr Cs account was blocked  for approximately 15 minutes. I dont think this was a 
significant period  of time for him not have access to his account. And Ive not seen enough 
evidence which suggests he has suffered  any significant financial hardship or inconvenience 
as a result  of this. And as Ive said above, I dont think NatWest  was wrong to put a 
restriction on Mr Cs account. 
Ref: DRN73980042NatWest has accepted Mr C may have  had some difficulties in attempting  to contact it and 
was kept on hold on the phone. I think its quite possible that Mr C was kept on hold and that 
on occasions NatWest  isnt able to answer  calls as quickly  as it would like. But in this case 
Ive not seen enough evidence that these delays  had a significant impact  on Mr C. So I think  
in the circumstances of this particular case the compensation offered to Mr C by NatWest  
was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is to not uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7398004