K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that British  Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
other companies and engineers insofar as I hold British Gas responsible for their actions.
Mr and Mrs W had a gas fire in their lounge. They also had a carbon monoxide alarm.  Sadly 
Mrs W had received a diagnosis of cancer. 
Since at least 2016 Mr and Mrs W had had British Gas cover for their central heating,  
plumbing and drainage.  They renewed  it in August 2018 and shortly afterwards they added 
gas appliance  cover for the gas fire. British Gas did an annual service  on the fire on 8 
October 2018.
Later that month, Mr and Mrs W used the fire and heard the alarm.  They  rang for help and 
turned off the fire and opened the windows  and doors. An engineer  visited and said that 
someone hadnt re-attached the fire back to the wall. 
By their daughters letter  dated 19 November 2018  Mr and Mrs W complained that British 
Gas was responsible  for fumes having  escaped into the house. 
British Gas offered  £500.00 but Mr and Mrs W complained that British  Gas wasnt  taking the 
complaint seriously.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
there had been  an error in terms of the fire not being put back correctly.  But she thought the 
offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the investigators  opinion. They asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint. They  say, in summary,  that:
British Gas negligently performed 2 checks at their house. The first led to a carbon 
monoxide leak; the second a gas leak. 
The form which is completed  by the engineer doesn't  ensure  the engineer checks  for 
either gas or carbon monoxide  fumes.  British  Gas should change  its forms. 
£500.00 doesnt do justice for the dangerous incompetence.
They are nervous of using the fire  especially when their grandchildren stay.
 
Their personal situation was already  distressing enough and this whole process has 
added  considerable undue stress and pressure. 
 
They would be expecting closer  to £5,000.00. 
Ref: DRN72591302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service looks at individual  complaints. Where we find that a firm 
has done something wrong  we look at the impact on the consumer. We assess 
compensation by reference to that impact.  We dont assess compensation by reference to 
punishment or deterrence  for the firm.
The alarm in October 2018 came at a time when  Mr and Mrs W were dealing  with her 
diagnosis. I accept that she wanted to be safe and warm  in her lounge. British  Gas later said 
the following:
the fire had not been  fixed back to fireplace correctly and as a result, some fumes 
may have  entered the property 
 
Despite the use of the passive tense, I find it clear that British Gas left the fire incorrectly 
fixed. And I find that a serious  and dangerous mistake.
The effect on Mr and Mrs W was not only that on 27 October 2018 they were disturbed by 
the alarm  and had to call the gas infrastructure supplier. Also they were troubled by the 
thought that if the alarm hadnt worked then they mightve died.  
British Gas visited the property on the 28 October  2018 and re-sealed  the fire back to the 
wall. 
On about 19 November 2018  Mr and Mrs W complained through  their daughter. The 
complaint mentioned a leak of carbon monoxide  but not of gas. Under the rules  set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), British Gas had eight weeks to send a final response.  
On 26 November 2018 British Gas visited again.  It made a note as follows:
battery has come loose, spillage  ok
The British  Gas final response on 22 January 2019  was a few days late. It responded to the 
complaint of 19 November 2018. Its offer of £500.00 was more  than I wouldve otherwise  
found fair and reasonable to compensate  Mr and Mrs W. So I dont  find it fair and reasonable 
to direct British Gas to pay any more  compensation.
When they brought their complaint to us in January  2019, Mr and Mrs W mentioned a gas 
leak on 26 November 2018.  But  of course  - that hadnt been  mentioned  in the complaint  
letter of 19 November 2018. And it hadnt  been mentioned  in the British Gas response of 22 
January 2019.  So  keeping in mind the FCA rules - I dont find it appropriate  to deal with 
that complaint  in this final decision.
Its not part of my role to direct British Gas to change its procedures or business forms. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to do anything further in 
response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN72591303my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7259130