K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited administered their travel  
insurance policy and handled claims they wanted  to make on their policy.   
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a travel insurance policy linked  to their packaged bank account. The 
policy is underwritten by UKI. Mrs W explained  she declared she has a rare allergy to a 
particular plant but no other known allergies.
Mr and Mrs W upgraded the policy on the 3 September 2018 as theyd be away for longer 
than the basic  policy allowed  under  the terms and conditions. Mr W wanted UKI to email 
across a copy of the updated schedule. He contacted  them on the 6 September to say he 
didnt have all the documents, as he only had the policy booklet. UKI said hed been told it 
could take up to seven days for the documents to arrive. 
Mr W wanted UKI to send the information by email  because he was going on holiday on the 
11 September for five weeks. Mr W contacted UKI again on the 7 September asking UKI to 
clarify the allergy  exclusion  applied to the policy  only related to the plant allergy, rather  than 
to all allergies. He was worried  this would cause problems if he needed to make  a claim or 
had to present  the insurance  certificate to a Doctor abroad.  
UKI said they couldnt email across the policy schedule because it contained sensitive 
personal medical information. They  explained  Mr and Mrs W didnt need the schedule  of 
insurance and all the information  about  the policy, including  the specific  allergy excluded  
was held on their system.  They confirmed  they screened for allergies in general which is why 
the schedule of insurance referred  to allergies  in general. But they confirmed  Mrs W would 
be covered for all allergies, except  her pre-existing allergy to the plant. 
Mr and Mrs W were both unwell during the course  of their holiday. They say the clinic 
wouldnt accept their documents  as proof  of insurance because  they didnt  have the 
schedule. Mr W contacted  the claims assistance line who asked to see a medical report. So 
he had to pay for the treatment and get a report once hed had treatment. When Mrs W was 
ill later on in the holiday they were  aware what would happen so ensured  they got a report 
and receipts.
Mr W explained hes provided everything hes able to in order to progress the claims. Hes 
been back to Spain since and says hes gone back to the clinic  to see if theres anything  else 
he can provide in order to progress  the claim.  
When he made a complaint to our service  he said he wanted to resolve this complaint  by 
UKI providing him with a copy of his insurance schedule and written confirmation  of the 
exclusions that apply  to his policy. He also wants UKI to settle the claims he wanted to make  
in December 2018 and January 2019. Since our service began  investigating  the complaint 
Mr W says hes now received  a copy of the policy schedule.  
Ref: DRN74699362Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Whilst she appreciated UKI had business systems in place which prevented  them from 
sending information  by email she thought they could  have done more  to help Mr and Mrs W. 
She thought  Mr and Mrs W had done enough to establish there  was a potential claim and so 
UKI should have  contacted the treating  clinic if they needed more  information to substantiate 
it. She recommended  UKI contacted the clinic directly for any further information in relation 
to the claims and they pay Mr and Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset they experienced. 
UKI didnt  agree. They said Mr W would only accept information by email  so it wasnt an 
option to send the schedule by an alternative method. And they said the policy  schedule 
would have been sent to Mr W at the time he took out the policy. Theyve also explained 
they havent received a claim from Mr and Mrs W so they cant take any further action. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say: 
1. You must provide  us with all documentation  reasonably necessary in support  of 
your claim
3. By saying reasonably necessary, we mean documents such as: 
(a)A medical certificate  in the event of a medical condition necessitating your stay in 
hospital
(b)Receipts for treatment of medication  you pay for 
(c)Receipts for any additional  expenses.
This list is not exhaustive  and you may be asked to provide other  types of 
documentation to authenticate your claim.
Based on the information Ive seen Im not persuaded  UKI have  treated  Mr and Mrs W fairly. 
Im upholding their complaint because:  
UKI say they sent Mr and Mrs W copies  of the relevant documentation when the 
policy was taken  out. But it was clear from Mr Ws conversations  with UKI that he 
didnt have an updated copy of the documents and he wanted it before he went 
away. Given that Mr and Mrs W were going to be away  for five weeks, and Mrs W 
had recently had some health problems, I can understand  why they wanted the 
documentation to hand. Mr W spoke to UKI about this in September 2018 but based 
on the information Ive seen they didnt send further copies until February 2019. 
Ref: DRN74699363I understand UKIs business process meant  they couldnt email the information to 
Mr W. UKI explained they didnt send  the schedule by post because thats not what 
Mr W wanted and it wouldnt have got to him before  he left the UK. But, in the 
circumstances of this case,  I think UKI could have done more to help Mr and Mrs W. 
At the point in time Mr W first contacted them there was a window of around  four to 
five days to get the information to them securely.  So Im not persuaded they took 
reasonable steps to help Mr and Mrs W get this important information ahead of their 
holiday.
Equally I can understand why UKI couldnt  produce a schedule which specified the 
particular allergy Mrs W was diagnosed  with. Their system doesnt  allow  them to do 
that. But, I dont  think it would  have been  unreasonable to produce a letter manually 
confirming the exclusion only related  to the specific allergy to the plant. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs W were concerned theyd run into problems if they 
produced a schedule which appeared to contain  a wider exclusion for all allergies  
and why they wanted this clarification.  
Mr and Mrs W have  provided receipts  and information from the medical centre where 
they were treated.  I think  they have provided  sufficient evidence  to demonstrate they 
have a potential  claim as the evidence suggests  they received some  form of 
treatment abroad.  I note the policy terms refer to providing evidence  thats 
reasonably necessary.  Im satisfied thats what Mr and Mrs W have done  in the 
circumstances of this case.  So I think UKI should assess  the claims on the basis  of 
the available  evidence. And, if UKI require further information they should contact the 
medical centre directly.
UKI say that a claim  hasnt actually been  submitted and Mr W hasnt contacted  their 
claims team since returning  to the UK. But that doesnt change  my thoughts about 
the outcome of this complaint. Mr W has been  very clear that hes unhappy with how 
hes been treated  and he was told hed need  to get a medical  report. Hes explained 
he cant do that and hes provided everything he can. So I can understand why hes 
pursued a complaint  rather than contacting the claims team again. If UKI require 
Mr W to complete claims documentation, such as a claim form, then Id expect him to 
do so.
I can see that this has been a very frustrating experience for Mr and Mrs W and has 
caused them  unnecessary worry and upset.  They wanted  documentation confirming 
their level of cover, and I think  that was reasonable. I think  the £250  compensation 
our investigator recommended fairly  reflects this.
For clarity, Im not directing UKI pay the claim at this stage. However, they should  
assess it in line with the remaining policy terms. And, if they remain  concerned about 
the medical evidence,  I think its for them to contact  the treating clinic for more  
information. 
Ref: DRN74699364putting things right 
UKI should put things right by:
Writing a letter to Mr and Mrs W confirming the exclusion relates only to Mrs Ws 
plant allergy as opposed to all allergies  
Dealing with the outstanding claims in line with the remaining policy terms
Paying Mr and Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the poor customer 
service they experienced. 
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and directing U K Insurance Limited to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject  my decision before 28 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7469936