K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the success fee charged by Symmetric Systems  Ltd (trading as Bank  
Smart) following a successful claim with Lender M. 
background
Mr H instructed Bank Smart to represent him in making  payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
claims in April 2016. The authority form included terms and conditions which explained  that if 
any claim was successful,  Bank  Smart would charge 25% plus VAT on any payment 
received. The agreement also explained  that Bank  Smart would charge cancellation costs 
for any cancellation that took place 14 days after signing  the authority form. 
In May 2017  Bank Smart asked Mr H to complete a letter of authority for Lender M. Mr H 
signed and returned this. On 29 September Bank  Smart asked Mr H to complete a PPI 
questionnaire for Lender M. Mr H returned the signed PPI questionnaire to Bank Smart 
dated 3 October. Mr H also wrote not sure, dont  know in response to the question  asking if 
he had previously made a complaint about  the PPI policy.  
Bank Smart wrote to Mr H asking for further details of the previous claim hed mentioned.   
Mr H ticked the option  which  said I have previously submitted a complaint but no received 
no decision  on the case. I would like to proceed with the complaint, and escalate  the matter  
if necessary, to ensure that a decision is issued by [Lender M].
On 5 October Mr H received a letter from Lender  M confirming that his complaint about the 
mis-sale of his PPI policy had been previously rejected. The letter also said because of new 
regulatory guidance, Mr H could complain about  the level of commission  applied. Mr H says 
he dealt with the complaint about commission himself. 
On 10 October Bank Smart sent the claim to Lender  M. The letter  of complaint also said We 
are also requesting a refund of all PPI and interest  paid following the decision in Plevin in 
respect of unfair undisclosed commission. 
On 29 November Mr H received a letter from Lender  M telling him that his complaint about 
the level of commission  applied was successful. 
On 5 December  Lender  M told Bank  Smart that that theyd already investigated a complaint 
about PPI for Mr H, so wouldnt be taking  the complaint any further.  Bank Smart wrote to Mr 
H asking for further  information about  this. When Mr H didnt provide anything,  Bank Smart 
sent their invoice for the successful claim.
Mr H complained about Bank Smarts  decision to charge a success  fee, as he said the claim 
for commission had been made by himself. Bank Smart disagreed, saying that Mr H had a 
contract with them at the time the claim was made, and their success  fee was due. 
The investigator found that Bank Smart had acted unfairly in charging  the success  fee, as 
they hadnt asked Mr H for his authority before making the claim for undisclosed 
commission, and it was likely that this claim was successful because  of the work Mr H did. 
Bank Smart disagreed with this view, saying that Mr H hadnt told them  about the letter 
received from Lender M. Bank  Smart also said if Mr H didnt want Bank Smart representing 
Ref: DRN78709902him, he shouldve  told them.  Bank  Smart say Mr H wouldve been charged  cancellation  costs  
for the work  completed  so far, as explained in the terms and conditions hed agreed  to.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 August 2019  saying that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I thought that Symmetric Systems acted fairly  in charging Mr H their success  fee for the 
claim with Lender M, so I didnt think it would be fair to ask them to waive it. Symmetric 
Systems didnt provide  any further  comments.  Mr H provided additional comments, which  
Ive addressed in my final decision. The findings below are repeated from my provisional  
decision, with the addition  of my response to Mr Rs additional comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Claims Management Regulator issued guidance about undisclosed commission  
complaints in August 2017. This highlighted the importance of making sure that a claims 
management company  gets consent from any existing customer before making a complaint 
about undisclosed commission on their behalf.  The term existing customer indicates it was 
for customers where a PPI mis-sale  complaint had already  been  made.  
Ive considered this guidance alongside whats happened on Mr Hs claim. In doing  so Ive 
seen that Mr H told Bank Smart that he wasnt sure of the outcome of his mis-sale claim for 
PPI with Lender M. He also provided consent to Bank Smart to look into this. A few days  
later, Mr H was told by Lender  M directly that his claim for the mis-sale of PPI had been 
rejected. I cant see that Mr H told Bank Smart  about this. As Mr H had given Bank Smart 
authority to deal with his claim,  I think its fair that Bank Smart  continued  to act for him.
Bank Smart sent the claim  to Lender M believing that an outcome for the mis-sale  of the PPI 
policy hadnt been provided.  They also included wording in bold asking Lender M to also 
look into the undisclosed commission part of the policy  complained of. Ive considered  
whether Mr Hs authority  shouldve been  obtained  before  the claim for undisclosed 
commission was made.  On the facts of this case,  I dont think  new authority  was needed. 
I say this because  Bank  Smart werent  aware  that Mr H had already had a decision on the 
mis-sale of his PPI policy. I cant say what wouldve happened  if Mr H had told Bank  Smart 
at the time that hed had a letter confirming the mis-sale complaint had been  previously 
rejected. The evidence Ive seen shows that only a few days before this Mr H gave authority 
to Bank  Smart to act for him, so its fair that Bank  Smart  should  charge for the work theyd 
done. 
Mr H says that the claim for undisclosed  commission was successful because  of his own 
involvement, and that Bank Smart had nothing to do with it. I think theres  a strong chance 
that this was the case. But I dont think this changes the contract that Mr H in place with 
Bank Smart at the time. This contract gave Bank Smart authority to act for Mr H. I cant  see 
that this contract  was cancelled. 
Bank Smart have asked  for their success fee for the successful undisclosed commission  
complaint to be paid.  Given  the contract in place with Mr H at the time the claim was 
successful, and the involvement  Bank  Smart had with Lender M with authority from Mr H, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Bank  Smart to waive  their success  fee. 
Ref: DRN78709903Mr Rs comments  to provisional decision
Mr H feels strongly  that the successful  claim was because of his own work, and not because 
of anything Bank Smart did. I can understand Mr Hs frustrations as I think its likely that he 
did have involvement  with Lender M. However Mr Hs contract with Bank Smart was still in 
force at that time. Even if I was to accept that it was Mr Hs involvement alone that led to the 
successful outcome (which on balance,  I cant say it was), Mr H would still be liable for 
cancellation costs  as explained  in the terms and conditions he agreed to. 
From what  Ive seen I think a fair outcome is for Mr H to pay Bank Smart their success  fee. 
However if Mr H doesnt agree he can still reject this final decision, and accept that Bank  
Smart is likely to pursue  him for cancellation costs instead. Bank  Smart have confirmed to 
this service cancellation costs wouldve been charged if Mr H had told them he was going to 
pursue the claim  against Lender  M for undisclosed commission himself. I will leave it to Mr H 
to decide what  he wants to do. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think Symmetric Systems Ltd have acted fairly in charging Mr H their success fee for the 
claim with Lender M, so I dont think it would be fair to ask them to waive it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7870990