K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Vitality  Health Limited retrospectively applied  exclusions to their 
private medical insurance policy, which meant  a claim was turned down. Theyre also 
unhappy about the customer  service  they received from Vitality. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out the policy through a financial adviser. It was taken out on a full 
medical underwriting (FMU) basis. In other words, they answered questions  about their 
medical history when applying for the policy and Vitality accepted them  for cover  based on 
their answers, with some exclusions applied.  
Mrs S asked Vitality to authorise  a referral to a specialist as she was experiencing right 
breast pain. As the claim was made soon after the policy started, Vitality wanted  a claim 
form completed by Mrs Ss GP.
After Vitality received the claim form, it thought Mrs S had failed to tell it relevant information  
on the application form, and had also failed  to tell it about changes  to her health  between the 
date the application was submitted and the date the policy started. It said if it had known the 
information it would have applied exclusions to the policy. It therefore added  the exclusions 
retrospectively. As Mrs Ss claim fell within one of those exclusions,  Vitality turned down the 
claim. Unhappy with this, and Vitalitys customer service, Mr and Mrs S cancelled the policy  
and made  a complaint. 
Vitality accepted thered been  some  delays in its handling of the claim, and offered £30 
compensation for this. However, it maintained  its decision to retrospectively  apply the 
exclusions and decline the claim.  Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy, so they brought  the 
matter to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought it had been  
reasonable for Vitality to apply  the retrospective exclusions  and decline the claim.  He didnt 
think Vitality needed  to pay any further compensation for its handling of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S have  asked for an ombudsmans  decision, so the matter has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The application was completed and submitted on 14 February 2018, and the policy  started 
on 1 April 2018.
The application form asked:
Are any applicants currently:

b) awaiting any medical test results, follow-up  consultations, treatment or investigations?
c) experiencing symptoms  of any health  problems  (or had symptoms in the last three
months), whether  or not medical advice has been sought?
Ref: DRN77596312d) being regularly monitored by a Consultant, GP or other health professional?
Mrs S answered yes to the above  question and disclosed some details about her health. 
Vitality thinks  Mrs S should have also told it that she had experienced right shoulder  pain in 
the three months  before completing the application form. It applied a retrospective exclusion 
to the policy  for this. 
I see that Mrs S attended her GP surgery on 31 January 2018. Her GP confirms she 
reported right shoulder pain, and it was thought she had musculoskeletal pain. Given that 
Mrs S was experiencing  right shoulder  pain in the three months before completing the 
application, I think she should have disclosed this in response to the clear question  that was 
asked. 
Mrs S has told Vitality  that she went to the GP on that date as she was experiencing right 
tennis elbow. She says she was told it was musculoskeletal pain and the issue  was 
resolved, therefore  she didnt  tell Vitality about  it. 
The information from the GP is that Mrs S was experiencing  right shoulder pain rather  than 
right tennis elbow, however since Mrs S said she was experiencing symptoms of right tennis 
elbow in the previous three  months,  Vitality also said it would apply an exclusion for this to 
the policy. Since Mrs S accepts she had right tennis elbow in that time frame,  again I think 
she should have  disclosed  this on the application form.
I accept that Mrs S didnt  seek to deliberately  mislead Vitality  about her symptoms  or the GP 
visit. However, Vitality has shown that if it had known about Mrs Ss right shoulder  pain and 
right tennis elbow, it would have applied exclusions for these  conditions.  Im satisfied it was 
therefore appropriate for Vitality to retrospectively apply these exclusions.
Mr and Mrs S make  the point that when applying for the policy,  they gave their consent for 
Vitality to access their medical  records.  They say Vitality should have taken advantage of 
this and contacted their GP, as they think its unreasonable to expect a new client to provide  
detailed medical  history information.  
The application form makes it clear that Vitality will rarely contact GPs as it assesses the 
application based on the health questions being  answered  honestly  and fully. 
Although Mr and Mrs S gave their consent  on the application for Vitality to contact their GP, I 
wouldnt expect an insurer to do this as a matter of course. So long as the questions asked 
in the application form are clear (and here Im satisfied the relevant question  was clear),  I 
see nothing wrong  with an insurer relying on the information given in the application when 
deciding whether or not to accept  an applicant for cover.  
Vitality also thinks  Mrs S should have told it she was experiencing symptoms of right axilla  
pain after the application had been submitted, but before the policy  started. It therefore also 
applied a retrospective exclusion for this. It was because of this exclusion that Mrs Ss later 
claim was turned down.  
Ref: DRN77596313The application form says:
 you must advise us of any change to the information given in this application which  
occurs between the date of signing  the plan declaration below and the plan start date 
(including changes  to any applicants state  of health).
Im therefore  satisfied that Vitality made it clear that Mr and Mrs S needed to tell it if any of 
the information theyd given in the application  form changed between  the date theyd  signed  
it and the date the policy started. 
Ive looked at the information provided by Mrs Ss GP about her symptoms.  
On 15 February 2018, Mrs S saw her GP with right axilla pain. As she had a past history  of 
malignant melanoma excised from her right elbow,  she was apparently  concerned her pain 
was related to this. She told the GP she had an appointment arranged  with her specialist the 
following week. The GP thought there was some possible thickening  in the right axilla, but 
didnt do anything as she had already arranged to see her specialist. 
When Mrs S saw her specialist, there was no sign of recurrence of melanoma. A chest x-ray 
was arranged. On 12 March 2018,  Mrs S was reviewed by her specialist and her chest x-ray 
was normal. It was noted her right axilla pain had almost completely resolved. 
Given that Mrs S was experiencing a new symptom  that hadnt  been disclosed on the 
application form, I think she ought to have told Vitality about this before the policy  started. 
Vitality has shown that if it had known  of her right axilla pain, it would have  applied  an 
exclusion for any disorders of the right axilla and related conditions. Im therefore satisfied 
Vitality was entitled to retrospectively apply the exclusion.  
Ill now consider Vitalitys decision to turn down Mrs Ss claim. 
A few weeks  after the policy started, Mrs S saw her GP again  because the pain in her right 
axilla had recurred.  An examination revealed  a lump  or thickening  in the axillary tail of her 
right breast. The GP thought the lump/thickening needed further investigations,  and said that 
it may or may not be related to the preceding symptoms. Though  the GP also said the first 
signs and symptoms of the condition were  on 31 January 2018.
Whilst the GP doesnt know  if the right axilla  pain Mrs S experienced after the policy started  
was related to her previous  symptoms, Ive already found that Vitality was entitled to apply 
an exclusion  for disorders  of the right axilla and related conditions. I think it was therefore 
reasonable for Vitality to apply  this exclusion to the claim  and turn it down. 
Mr and Mrs S have  also complained about  Vitalitys handling of the claim, as well as their 
complaints. 
I see that Mr and Mrs S were unhappy  that Mrs Ss GP needed to give information on a 
claim form before her claim  would  be considered,  particularly since  theyd given details  of 
their medical history when  applying  for the policy. 
Given that the claim was made so soon after the policy started, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Vitality to ask for a claim form to be completed. The policy terms make it 
clear that Vitality may require this. 
Ref: DRN77596314Mr and Mrs S are also unhappy that they were told the claim would take three  days  to 
assess, but in fact it took much longer than this. Their financial adviser also had to chase 
Vitality for an update  numerous times before receiving a response.  
Once Vitality received  the completed claim form, the information contained in the form led it 
to think Mrs S hadnt told it relevant information about her health  on the application form. 
However, it wanted to check the original application  to make sure of this. It seems there was 
a delay in retrieving the application.
I see that Mr and Mrs Ss financial adviser  chased  Vitality a number of times, however it was 
a few weeks before Vitality was able to retrieve the application form. Once it had reviewed 
this, it advised  Mr and Mrs Ss financial adviser  the same day that it thought Mrs S hadnt  
told it relevant information, and that the matter was being referred to their medical  
underwriting department for further consideration. 
Vitality accepts there was an unnecessary delay during  this time, and its paid Mr and Mrs S 
£30 compensation  in recognition of this. I think that was reasonable. Mrs S had already seen 
the specialist,  so her appointment  wasnt delayed  as a result of Vitalitys actions. 
Mr and Mrs S have  also raised concerns about Vitalitys handling of their complaint. 
However, like the adjudicator, I think Vitality handled the complaint appropriately  and within 
the relevant timescales. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7759631