K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building  Society  stopped the use of his credit card and that 
it failed to respond to correspondence he sent to it.
background
Mr F was unhappy his credit card was blocked  by Nationwide and wanted to be provided 
with an explanation for this, as he explained  he was unaware of the reason.
Nationwide said letters were sent to Mr F asking him to get in touch with them regarding an 
outstanding balance, as no payments had been  made towards this balance.  And as a result  
of this Nationwide said it blocked the use of his card until arrangements to repay  were  made.
Mr F disagreed and said he already cleared the credit card balance, but Nationwide  failed to 
reactivate his card. He was also unhappy that Nationwide failed to respond  to a number of 
letters he had sent to it.
Nationwide said that it had already addressed  Mr Fs complaint regarding his letters.  And the 
matter had previously been  brought to, and dealt with, by the Financial Ombudsman  Service.  
Its position remained unchanged in relation to the blocking of the credit  card.  It said Mr F had 
failed to pay the balance on the card or provide  evidence he had made  any payments. It also 
provided a number of letters it had sent to Mr F following his final response,  replying to his 
correspondence.
An investigator looked into this and thought Nationwide didnt need to do anything more.  She 
thought Mr F hadnt made a payment on his credit  card balance as there  was no evidence  to 
support this. And that Mr Fs previous complaint had been  addressed  by both Nationwide 
and our service. So this wouldnt be looked  into again. She also thought Nationwide had 
provided sufficient responses  to Mr F following his final response letter.
Mr F remained unhappy with the investigators  opinion and said Nationwide had failed to 
respond to correspondence in 2018.  He also remained unhappy with Nationwides handling 
of his previous  complaints. So the matter has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F is unhappy  with Nationwides handling of his previous complaints. As these have been 
dealt with by Nationwide  and our service  previously, I dont think it appropriate that 
I comment on them further.  I will however consider Mr Fs complaint regarding the blocking 
of his credit  card and Nationwides  failure  to respond to his letter  in 2018.
Mr F was expected to make minimum monthly payments on his credit card balance  or 
contact Nationwide  to arrange alternative payment methods. Mr F said he had paid the 
outstanding balance on the credit  card. However,  after being asked by Nationwide and our 
investigator to supply evidence of this, he has been unable to do so. Nationwide  supplied 
copies of Mr Fs credit card statements and these  show that no payments had been made. 
As Mr F hasnt produced any evidence a payment has been made, I think it is more  likely 
than not he didnt make any payments towards  the outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN74349552I have read the terms and conditions set out on Mr Fs credit card account  and carefully 
considered the terms relating to the suspension  of the account.  The terms say:
We may also restrict or suspend  the use of your account for any of the reasons set out 
above. We will give you advanced notice unless we are prevented from doing so by law or if 
it would  not be practicable to do so.
I have read the reasons set out as to why Nationwide may restrict or suspend  the account 
and this includes if:
You seriously or repeatedly breach  the terms of your agreement,  including  failing to make 
the minimum payment  by the payment due date.
As Mr F failed to make  payments on a number of occasions, I think the account was 
suspended fairly and in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. Mr F supplied  our 
service with a copy of a letter sent to him from Nationwide.  I can see this letter informs Mr F 
he had failed to make a payment on his account.  And it outlines  the cards  suspension  and 
says that it will be reactivated once  payment  was received. So I think  Mr F ought to have 
been aware of the reasons why his account was suspended, and he was given clear  
instruction on how to resolve the matter.
As Mr F hadnt  made repayments on his account it isnt unreasonable for Nationwide to 
place a block on his account. I think its important Nationwide are satisfied he could afford 
his repayments  before allowing him to accrue further debt. So overall, I think  it fair 
Nationwide applied the block on Mr Fs account  until he either made a payment on the 
balance or could show evidence these had already  been made.
Mr F is also unhappy with Nationwides failure  to respond to his letters  following his 
complaint. I can see Nationwide provided a final response to his complaint on 15 January 
2018. Nationwide then provided a response  to follow up letters  from Mr F on four separate  
occasions. These addressed the responses  Mr F sent following his final response letter.  So I 
think Nationwide had been reasonable in addressing Mr Fs concerns  and responding to his 
letters.
Mr F specified one letter  which  he said Nationwide didnt respond to, dated 5 April 2018.  I 
note that the reference number contained  within the body of the letter  didnt correspond with 
the complaint  reference being  dealt with here.  Nationwide said, Mr F made  a further 
complaint to them regarding the same issues being  dealt with in this complaint. So they had 
closed this complaint  as a replica. I think Nationwide  were reasonable in doing  this. Mr F had 
been responded to on five occasions regarding  his complaint. I dont think  it reasonable for 
Nationwide to continue  corresponding with Mr F to cover points it had already given. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Fs frustrations in not receiving a response from Nationwide  on the 
date outlined in the letter dated 5 April 2018, I think he ought to have known  this was 
regarding the same complaint. And this had been addressed  in several  letters from 
Nationwide. 
Ref: DRN74349553my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7434955