K820x#14complaint
Mr H says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr H bought the policy in June 2004, after taking out a credit card in March 2004.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs credit card agreement dated 8 March 2004. On this 
agreement it states; You have  requested:  No Repayments Cover. This is important 
because Mr H signed this credit  card agreement.  It wasnt  a credit card application - 
meaning Mr H took out his credit card without PPI.
 
St Andrews  have said that Mr H then took out PPI during a telephone call afterwards. 
Although I dont know what was discussed about  PPI during this phone  call, when Ive 
considered that Mr H previously declined PPI, I think that he reasonably would have 
been aware that it was optional and that he agreed to take it out.
Ive also noted  that Mr H has complained that PPI was added without his consent. But 
Ive also seen a copy of an insurance certificate  dated 25 June 2004. Halifax has said 
that this was sent to Mr H. So I think that Mr H would quite reasonably have questioned 
 much sooner  than he did, why PPI had been  added if he hadnt  agreed to take it out. 
But the evidence  is that PPI remained on his account for some time after it was added.   
 St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check if it was right for him as 
well as give Mr H good enough  information so that he could decide  if he wanted  to take 
out the policy. Mr H has said that the PPI wasnt suitable as he had 12 months  
discretionary sick pay from his employer if he was unwell and unable to work. But any 
discretionary sick pay is not guaranteed,  whereas the PPI could have paid out for up to 
12 months per claim.  So I cant  fairly say that the recommendation to take PPI was 
unsuitable or that the policy wasnt right for Mr H. 
 Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr H doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ref: DRN74293552Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments,  including what hes said about  Not having savings 
should not come into it. The purpose  of considering the savings is to identify  if Mr H had any 
other means  for making his repayments if he was unwell and unable to work  or if he made 
unemployed  that would mean he didnt have a need for PPI. 
But in this case I still think that Mr H did have a need  for PPI and the recommendation to 
take it was suitable. Ive also considered what hes said about  being able to rely on his 
partners help, but circumstances can change and his partner  may not have been  in a 
position to help when needed. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7429355