K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled  his motor 
insurance policy as though it never existed, as it said he made  a deliberate  
misrepresentation.
Reference to Skyfire includes its agent.
background
Mr M bought  a policy online through an aggregator website for himself with his girlfriend as a 
named driver. A short time afterwards Skyfire  asked Mr M to send a copy of his girlfriends 
driving licence  as it said hed changed some details while getting quotes. Skyfire  said the 
driving licence  showed  Mr M had provided  the wrong date of birth for his girlfriend when 
buying the policy and asked him to call. During the phone call Skyfire  didnt think  Mr M had 
been able to properly explain why hed given the wrong date of birth. It said it wouldnt have 
provided a policy if Mr M had given the correct date of birth.  And so it cancelled  his policy 
from the start as though it never existed.
Mr M didnt  think  that was fair. He said hed made a typographical error and asked why he 
would have sent in his girlfriends driving  licence if hed done  it deliberately.  He said hed 
provided the correct  day of the month but accidentally used the month and year from his own 
date of birth. Mr M asked Skyfire to either increase the cost of the policy  or remove his 
girlfriend from it as a named  driver.
Skyfire said Mr M had done a number  of searches and changed the date of birth more  than 
once. So it was satisfied  hed done it deliberately. Skyfire said Mr M had also changed his 
address during the quotes.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 January 2019  where  I explained why I 
wasnt going to interfere with Skyfires decision to cancel the policy.  In that decision I said:
When buying his policy Mr M had a responsibility  - under the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. And for Skyfire  to take any action  at all it needs to show Mr M didnt do 
this and that he made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the 
consumer was asked.  I can see Mr M was asked what is their date of birth?. I think  this is a 
clear question. Its accepted that the date of birth shown  for Mr Ms girlfriend on the policy is 
incorrect. I appreciate Mr M doesnt remember giving the wrong date of birth but Ive seen a 
number of searches  Mr M did that include the wrong  date of birth.  So Im satisfied Mr M 
didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
But to show Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under CIDRA Skyfire  needs to 
show it would either not have  offered  the policy at all if Mr M hadnt made the 
misrepresentation or that it would have  offered  it on different terms. Skyfire  has provided 
information to show it wouldnt have offered Mr M and his girlfriend a policy if hed given  the 
correct information.  So Im satisfied he made a qualifying misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA a qualifying  misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless,  or careless.
Ref: DRN74743612Skyfire said Mr M deliberately manipulated the quotes to find the cheapest  policy. But Mr M 
said he made a genuine  error.
I can see Mr M did a number of quotes over a few days. I understand he changed other 
details in the quotes, such as his address, but Im not going to comment on that as these 
details were correct in the final quote  where Mr M bought his policy.
Mr M said he accidentally entered the wrong date of birth once and then used a saved quote 
to buy the policy.  I find Mr Ms account  of what happened  plausible but Im more  persuaded 
by the quotes  Skyfires  provided that show the date of birth was changed a number of times 
in a very short space of time.
The quotes  show Mr M did 22 quotes across four days using two different aggregator sites.
On the first day Mr M did two quotes at around  19.00 with the correct date of birth.  A couple  
of hours  later he did two further searches with the incorrect date of birth. Two days  later
Mr M did a search at 22.20  with the correct  date of birth and then seven minutes later a 
search with the incorrect date of birth. On the same night he did a quote with a different 
website, all using the correct date of birth.
A couple of days later Mr M did a search  using the correct date of birth.  And the following 
day did four quotes  at 18.09 all with the correct date of birth, followed by 10 searches at
18.10 with the wrong one. At 18.18  he did another six searches with the correct date of birth.
The final search  Mr M did at 18.42  had the wrong  date of birth and it was that quote he used 
to buy the policy.  
I appreciate Mr M said he used a saved  quote  and only provided the wrong date of birth 
once. But the evidence Skyfires provided doesnt  support that. I can understand why Mr M 
would use the email hed been  sent previously to re-run quotes. But that doesnt  account for 
the date of birth being changed  within minutes  of a search being done  with the correct 
information. Our investigator  asked Mr M if hed run simultaneous  quotes on different 
screens and he said he didnt remember doing so. As I havent  seen anything to persuade 
me of why the date of birth changed so often in a short space  of time, I think  it was 
reasonable for Skyfire to say Mr M made  a deliberate  misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA this meant Skyfire had the option to avoid Mr Ms policy  which means it would 
cancel it from the start as though it never existed. It could also keep the full premium. Skyfire 
said it treated Mr Ms policy as cancelled from the start but refunded his premium minus  a 
small cancellation fee. Given that it had the option  to keep the full premium Im not going to 
interfere with that decision.
Skyfire accepted my provisional findings  but Mr M didnt agree. He said as hed now been 
given the timings he remembered that he and his girlfriend had each run quotes from their 
own mobile phones  and this is why the dates of birth changed.  He said theyd created two 
accounts - his girlfriend  had run the quotes  with the correct date of birth and hed done  the 
one with the wrong date of birth. He said neither of them  changed the date of birth but kept 
running quotes with the information theyd both got saved on their phones. He didnt think  it 
would have been possible for him to have  changed  the date of birth in the short  time 
between some of the quotes being  run.
Mr M also said after buying  the policy he was only sent a copy of his motor  insurance 
certificate and that didnt  include  any dates  of birth. He said he wasnt encouraged  or guided 
Ref: DRN74743613to check his other documents on the portal  and thought his other documents would follow in 
the post. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having reviewed the quotes I can see that in my provisional decision where I said followed 
by 10 searches, this should have said one search.  However that doesnt change  the 
outcome of my decision. 
Following my provisional decision Mr M said he and his girlfriend set up separate  accounts 
and both ran quotes separately. He provided  information from the aggregator site to show 
the quotes were  done on a mobile phone but wasnt able to show  how many devices theyd 
been done on.
However Im still not persuaded  its most  likely this happened.  Thats because when bringing  
his complaint to us Mr M didnt mention that his girlfriend  had run any of the quotes.  He said 
hed logged  into emails  hed been  sent to re-run quotes. And when our investigator asked 
him if hed run the quotes from separate devices  at the same time he said he didnt recall 
doing so and thought  it was unlikely. I think its most likely his first response  is the most  
accurate one. Also, Skyfire said the quotes  were  all done under the same quote  reference 
number. And that means either Mr M or his girlfriend would have  needed to change the date 
of birth each time they logged back in to the quote as they were  working  from the same one. 
Our investigator asked  Mr M for anything to show hed got separate quote  references but he 
wasnt able to provide  anything  and said he wasnt provided with quote  references. So I 
havent seen enough to persuade me the quotes were run from separate  accounts. 
Mr Ms forwarded the email he received from Skyfire after he bought  his policy.  That said his 
documents are kept within the secure  customer portal. From the information  Ive seen that 
email could have  been clearer in telling  him he needed to check the documents  were 
correct. But thats  not enough to persuade me its Skyfires fault Mr M provided the incorrect  
details when he bought the policy. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. But for the reasons above I think  
Skyfires decision to find he made a deliberate misrepresentation is reasonable and Im not 
going to interfere with it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7474361