K821x#15complaint and background
Mr G says Sesame  Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Mr G took out a monthly premium PPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments in 2007. 
The policy gave Mr G protection against  accident  and sickness.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Mr G disagreed, pointing 
out that the letter he received after the meeting made clear  he had chosen not to take out 
PPI and saying  hed told Sesame he didnt want it. So the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I asked Mr G and Sesame to let me have  any more 
information by 25 April 2019 before I made  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Mr G didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Sesame replied saying it disagreed with my 
comments on optionality. It argued  an advisor would only have obtained the quote if Mr G 
had changed his mind and decided  to take out PPI. And the fact Mr G at first declined  the 
cover shows  he was aware it was optional.
Ive considered these  points  carefully  but they do not change  my conclusion.  I say this 
because I still dont  think Sesame has provided  evidence showing clearly that Mr G agreed 
to buy PPI. The arguments it raised  in response  to the provisional  decision do not address 
this point. They focus on the fact Mr G must  have been aware the PPI was optional  as he 
initially didnt  select it. And whilst  I accept  that is a logical  statement, Sesame was required 
not only to make it clear  the PPI was optional but also to get Mr Gs consent to take it out. 
And it has provided no new evidence to persuade  me it did this. 
Sesame has copies  of the emails  and documentation about the other insurance Mr G chose 
to take out. So I would expect there  to be some documentation or reference to PPI (aside  
from the quote) if Mr G had, as Sesame suggests, changed his mind after 14 May 2007 
when he signed  the letter that confirmed You have  elected not to take out the mortgage 
payment protection . Ive still not seen any such documents, or indeed explanation  from 
Sesame on this point.  The second  letter Sesame sent to Mr G on 17 May 2007 said We 
discussed your requirement for mortgage  protection  assurance and this letter therefore 
relates only to this aspect  of your financial planning.  I recommended  a full financial review 
but you declined  this offer in preference of advice on term assurance only.  It doesnt refer to 
PPI at all, despite  Sesames  argument  that Mr G must have changed his mind and asked for 
a PPI quote around this time.  And nor does  any of the email  correspondence from the time.
So, without stronger evidence to show Mr G agreed  to take out PPI, Ive found no reason to 
change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. And I am upholding this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN75472122putting things right
Sesame must put Mr G in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and Sesame must:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Sesame can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Sesame to take off tax from this interest. Sesame must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint  Sesame  Limited  must pay Mr G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75472123copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G says Sesame Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out to protect Mr Gs mortgage repayments. The sale took 
place in 2007  at a meeting  with a representative of Sesame. The policy  gave Mr G protection against 
accident and sickness. He paid a monthly amount  for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed, pointing out that 
the letter  he received after the meeting  made  clear  he had chosen not to take out PPI and saying hed 
told Sesame he didnt want it. So the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed it here.
Im currently  planning to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I dont think Sesame  has so far provided evidence showing  clearly that Mr G agreed to buy PPI. I say 
this for a number of reasons. On the Intermediary Submission form PPI is not selected and the 
application form for PPI that Ive been sent is blank, as is the direct debit mandate for PPI. The letter  
Mr G signed  on 14 May 2007 that summarises the meeting states  You have elected not to take out 
the mortgage payment protection . So it is clear that at that point in time he hadnt chosen to buy PPI.
The evidence  from Sesame  shows a PPI quote was then completed  for Mr G on 16 May 2007 for 
accident and sickness protection  but I can find no evidence of how this quote was shared with Mr G 
(if it was), that he asked for it or that he accepted it. And at this time Mr G and Sesame were in email 
contact discussing the other insurances he did want. So I think its most likely  if Mr G had changed his 
mind after 14 May 2007, and decided  he wanted PPI, then this would have been  referred to in that 
email correspondence.  
Sesame sent a second letter to Mr G on 17 May 2007 which said We discussed  your requirement for 
mortgage protection assurance and this letter therefore relates only to this aspect  of your financial 
planning. I recommended a full financial  review but you declined this offer in preference  of advice on 
term assurance only. It doesnt refer to PPI at all. The paperwork Sesame has sent us contains the 
subsequent correspondence from the term assurance provider, and I would have expected similar 
from the provider of the PPI had Mr G agreed to take it out. Ive not seen any such documents.
Ive taken into account that, as our adjudicator  pointed  out, Mr G only bought accident and sickness 
cover. And I dont know exactly what was discussed  about  PPI. But in summary, having  looked  
carefully through all the documentation Sesame has provided, I cant fairly  and reasonably conclude  it 
shows clearly  that Mr G was given a fair choice, or that Mr G actually agreed to buy PPI. 
It follows I currently think Mr G lost out because of what Sesame did wrong.
Ref: DRN75472124putting things  right
If I uphold this complaint, Sesame will have to put Mr G in the position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled already,  and Sesame will 
have to:
Pay Mr G the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr G made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Sesame can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sesame to take off tax from this interest.  Sesame must give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above Im planning to uphold  this complaint.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7547212