K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited  failed  to inform him of the closing American Airlines air 
miles balance  on his credit card when it was changed to an MBNA Horizon card.
background
Mr P had an account with MBNA that included a Visa and an American Express card, both of 
which accrued air miles with American Airlines. In May 2018, MBNA wrote  to Mr P to tell him 
the account was changing  to an MBNA Horizon account which provided cashback but not air 
miles on purchases. This would be a single card account and the change would happen on 
28 July 2018.
The August  statement that was sent out on the account didnt include a final balance of air 
miles. Mr P complained because he said MBNA was contractually obliged to give him a final 
statement of the air miles hed accrued  on his cards. He wasnt happy with the suggestion he 
could get the balance  from American  Airlines. MBNA gave Mr P the final number of air miles 
it had credited to the American Airlines account  but he wasnt satisfied with that so he came  
to this service. Our adjudicator didnt  think  the complaint should be upheld so Mr P asked for 
review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand why Mr P was unhappy 
that his August statement  didnt include a final statement of his air miles. But MBNAs 
explained the air miles couldnt be included on the August statement because  the product 
had changed to the Horizon account before  the statement was sent out. The new system 
wouldnt allow for the inclusion of air miles on the statement.  MBNA  had written  to tell Mr P 
this change would be happening in May and has since provided Mr P with the closing 
balance of the air miles so I dont think it needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7278310