K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them  a packaged  bank 
account which it called the Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
background
Mr and Mrs E took out an URCA  in 2010. The fee was £12.50  a month.  If more  than £1000  a 
month was deposited  in the account, the fee was reduced to £7.50 a month.
The URCA benefits included mobile phone insurance, worldwide  family  travel insurance, car 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover, purchase protection,  card protection, interest and 
fee free overdrafts  of up to £300  and better rates  for higher overdrafts.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs Es complaint  and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs E disagree so the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs E say that they were told by Bank of Scotland that it no longer provided fee free 
accounts and they had to take out an URCA.
So I've started  by thinking about  whether  Mr and Mrs E were aware the URCA was optional  
and whether they were given a clear  choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that they were. I say this because  they had previously had a 
fee free bank  account with Bank of Scotland for many years and the fee free account theyd 
had continued  to be available after 2010. Also fee free accounts  were widely available  and 
advertised by Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial  institutions. 
So, while I dont doubt their honest recollections, I think  its more likely than not that if Bank 
of Scotland had told them it no longer provided  fee free accounts, they would have queried 
this and sought an alternative  fee free account elsewhere if that is what theyd wanted. 
So I think Mr and Mrs E were aware  they had a choice and chose to take out and pay for the 
URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that this was a non-advised sale, by which  it means that it didnt  
recommend the URCA to Mr and Ms E personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Ms E 
say that Bank of Scotland  did advise them to take it out. 
Ref: DRN76390522I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Ms Es needs and circumstances or suitability checks to show  me 
clearly that Bank of Scotland  did make a personal recommendation to them. I accept its 
possible that in providing information  to Mr and Ms E and explaining the benefits of the URCA,  
Bank of Scotland may have said or implied that it was good idea to take out the URCA. But 
this isnt the same as giving a personal  recommendation. And based  on this services  
knowledge of Bank  of Scotlands sales practices  at the time, I think  its more  likely than not 
that Bank  of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr and Ms E on an information  only basis. 
This means  Bank of Scotland did not have to ensure that the URCA was suitable for Mr and 
Ms E, but it did have to provide Mr and Ms E with good enough  information  about the URCA 
so they could make an informed decision  about whether to have it or not.
And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
Ive listed the URCA benefits above. And I note that Mr and Mrs E did put more than £1000  a 
month into the account in the following months so were effectively paying £7.50 a month  for 
the benefits. 
I think its likely Bank  of Scotland wouldve described the URCA to Mr and Ms E at some  
length as it was trying to sell the account to them. I think the URCA would have been of 
interest to Mr and Ms E as they had a van and mobile phones, and a home. They  were  also 
regularly running  an overdraft and so wouldve benefitted from the better overdraft rates  
available. 
I accept that it was some time before Mr and Mrs E used the travel  insurance or registered  for 
the mobile phone  insurance but the cover was immediately available.  And I can see nothing  in 
Mr and Ms Es personal circumstances  that would have stopped them  using the URCAs 
benefits; it was for them to decide what they wanted  to use.
Mr and Ms E say that when they took out the URCA they had other providers for some of 
these services. Even so, all of these  other  providers could have been cancelled  by 
Mr and Ms E and the cover provided  by the URCA. And as Ive concluded above that Mr and 
Ms E knew the account was optional, they could have closed the account  whenever they 
wished to, but didnt.
So in my view Mr and Mrs E knew they had a choice about the URCA and decided  to take it, 
and there  wasnt any information which Bank of Scotland didnt provide that would have  
caused them  not to buy it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7639052