K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy some transactions were missing from his Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited 
account. 
background
Mr C had a pre-paid card with Wirecard. But he said funds  were  being removed from his 
account without  showing on his statement. He was told Wirecard  had made some changes. 
And some charges no longer appeared on customer statements. But Wirecard was working 
to improve them to include more  details. 
Mr C said he never  receives paper statements. So its vital his online statements show  all the 
relevant details. And he wants  Wirecard  to be clearer about  what it displays. 
Wirecard apologised for the trouble Mr C had gone through to highlight the issues. It 
accepted the changes  had affected customers and it understood the inconvenience caused.  
Wirecard said it was working to improve its service. And it offered Mr C £50 compensation 
for the time and trouble hed been through.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Wirecards response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She understood Mr Cs frustration. But she could see 
Wirecard had apologised and corrected the problem. And itd offered  Mr C £50 
compensation. So she felt that was a reasonable response. 
Mr C didnt agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. He wanted to know 
what the actual  problem had been. And when did Wirecard  become  aware  and fix it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. When he tried to view his account online  he realised that 
certain charges  were  being  omitted from his statement and there didnt seem to be any 
consistency. So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr C and Wirecard have said.  And what  
Wirecard has done to put things right.
It seems  a card replacement fee was missed from Mr Cs statement.  Although  Wirecard 
wasnt aware of the problem for some  time I can see they issued a system update in 
February 2018. And its corrected the problem  and the fee should be displaying  normally 
now. 
I do appreciate Mr Cs concerns about how Wirecard has handled his complaint.  And I can 
see he doesnt think the responses go into enough  depth. And Wirecard hasnt answered his 
questions satisfactorily. 
But its important to understand the role of this service is not to punish businesses  for their 
mistakes. Our role is to decide  if Wirecard  has made an error. And if it has to put Mr C back  
in the position hed have  been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Ref: DRN77638882I cant see that Mr C has suffered any financial loss due to the display error. Wirecard has 
acknowledged a problem with how that fee was displayed. And its apologised for any 
confusion. Its confirmed its systems have been updated so the problem shouldnt occur 
again. And I think thats an appropriate  response  to the problem.
Mr C has provided more  recent information  to show a further inconsistency  in how his 
balance is displayed. Wirecard consider it a separate issue  to this complaint and have 
responded with an explanation.
I do understand why Mr C has been upset by this matter. And I appreciate  he feels Wirecard 
hasnt fully addressed  his complaint. But the missing fee only appears to have affected 
Mr Cs statement during  a short period.  I havent seen any evidence  to suggest it has 
occurred again.  And it doesnt appear  to have caused Mr C any loss.
Wirecard has resolved  the issue around the missing fee. And its offered Mr C £50 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes suffered  while dealing with this complaint. And I 
think thats a fair and reasonable  response. Its in line with the sort of award  this service 
normally makes. 
Im sure Wirecard reviews  the outcome of all the complaints it receives  to see if it can 
improve matters. And its confirmed its working on improving  how customers see information 
on their online account. Based  on what Ive seen I think Wirecard has dealt with Mr Cs 
complaint fairly. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7763888