K821x#15complaint
Miss F and Mr B complain  that Connells Limited  agreed with their mortgage lender a 
reduction in their proposed borrowing without consulting them,  leaving them with a £1,599  
shortfall which they only discovered  just before completion of their house purchase  was due.
To resolve  their complaint  they want Connells to fund the £1,599  shortfall, refund its fees 
and pay compensation for the stress and financial difficulty caused to them.
background
Connells acted as mortgage broker to Miss F and Mr B on their purchase of a new house 
under a Help to Buy scheme.  When they received the completion statement the amount 
required from them to complete was higher than they were expecting. The Help to Buy 
Authority to Proceed had initially said the amount  required from them was £22,996 but this 
had been increased to £24,595, a difference of £1,599.
Upon enquiry they discovered that Connells had agreed a higher deposit  with their lender 
without consulting or even informing them.
They say that as they were only three  or fours days from completion they had no option but 
to pay this additional amount by credit card. This has led to financial difficulty and has also 
meant that essential  purchases have had to be put back 3-6 months. Theyre  paying  interest  
on credit  cards and overdrafts instead of putting the money away  to spend on their home.
They also say the lender  required  an extra £160  on the first repayment, which  they werent 
warned about.  In addition Connells twice misspelt Mr Bs name  on documents.
On Miss F and Mr Bs complaint to Connells it said the lender  had reduced  the amount it was 
willing to lend. So Connells had agreed  to increase Miss F and Mr Bs deposit  without  their 
consent. Connells  apologised  for this. However  it said the amount was £600 not £1,599.
Connells said the £160 was something it would have no control over because it was the 
lenders responsibility to arrange payments.  The lender  would have written  to 
Miss F and Mr B prior to collecting the payment to advise them  of the amount. It wasnt 
uncommon for the first repayment  on a mortgage  to be higher than the regular monthly 
payments.
Connells had been unable  to evidence that Mr Bs name had been incorrectly  spelt on 
documents, but apologised if this was the case.
Connells offered  Miss F and Mr B £400  compensation  for the inconvenience theyd 
experienced, together with a fees refund of £499.  It was unable to offer financial redress  to 
cover the £600  deposit increase because they would always  have been liable to pay this 
amount to enable them  to proceed.
Miss F and Mr B werent happy  and brought their complaint to this service. They understood 
the £1,599 had to be paid but it was a lot easier  to pay this over the mortgage term than it 
was to pay in three days. If this deposit  had been stated originally they wouldnt even have 
put an offer in for the house  as it was out of their price range. The only reason they had 
agreed to put it on a credit card was because of the financial  implications of pulling out.
Ref: DRN72532772Following our involvement Connells agreed  that the deposit increase  had been  £1,599  not 
£600. But it said it had been taking action  to assist Miss F and Mr B with increasing their 
borrowing and it was probable that this could have been arranged before  the completion  
date. But Miss F and Mr B told Connells  they intended to raise  the funds rather  than seek 
further borrowing  from the lender. 
Connells said the deposit increase didnt represent a financial loss as Miss F and Mr B were  
always required to cover the full cost of the property  and this would either have  been  by way 
of an increased mortgage  advance  or the deposit. By reducing the loan amount they had 
reduced their interest payments over the term of the mortgage and saved money  over the 
longer term.
Our investigator recommended that Miss F and Mr Bs complaint be upheld and that 
Connells should pay them  a further  £150 for the trouble and upset caused by not informing 
them that it had agreed to increase  their deposit.
The investigator had listened to a call which took place a few days  before completion  was 
due. Connells gave  Mr B the option  of sending the money back  to the lender,  and asking it to 
consider increasing  the lending by taking his bonus  into consideration. The other options 
Connells gave Mr B were to ask the lender to increase the term of the mortgage from 39 
years to 40 years, or for Miss F and Mr B to raise  the funds to be able to cover the shortfall. 
Mr B felt the best way to proceed was to pay the shortfall using a credit card.
Miss F and Mr B had said that had they known about the deposit increase they wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the mortgage, but the investigator couldnt agree that the shortfall 
should be refunded to them. Although they werent  told about it when they should have 
been, they would still have had to pay this in order to get the property. Connells put them in 
a very difficult positon, but they did still have  the option to return  the money at this point and 
not complete on the mortgage.  
Choosing to pay the shortfall  on a credit card showed they still wanted  to complete on the 
mortgage despite the increase in their deposit.  The investigator believed  they would still 
have gone ahead had they been  told about the increase when the lender informed Connells 
it was reducing the lending.
The investigator had seen email correspondence confirming the misspelling of Mr Bs name.
Miss F and Mr B agreed to accept the investigators  recommendation but Connells  did not. It 
believed the original offer was reasonable in the circumstances. So the complaints been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F and Mr B didnt  have the option to return the money to the lender  and not complete 
the purchase. They were already contractually  obliged to complete and failing to do so would 
have been very expensive  indeed.  The only options  were to seek an increase in the lending,  
or to raise  the money needed to cover the shortfall by other  means.
Ref: DRN72532773Ive listened to the call recording. Connells said it had spoken to the lender and the lender 
had said it would consider using half of Mr Bs bonus and also potentially increase the term. 
Connells asked Mr B for his thoughts and he said he would probably put it on a credit card, 
which is what he did.
In their reply  to the investigator  Miss F and Mr B say the lender had rejected the other  
options, but I cant see any evidence of that. They also say they would have chosen these 
options had they been guaranteed, but there was no reason  not to test this. It was Mr Bs 
choice to take the credit card option  instead. In the phone call he mentioned seeking to 
replace the credit card borrowing with a personal  loan. But I think its likely  that either of 
these would have  been more expensive  than increasing the secured mortgage borrowing.
But whichever option had been chosen, it wouldnt have been the case  that Miss F and Mr B 
would be entitled  to recover the £1,599 from Connells.
Miss F and Mr B were  left in an extremely difficult position through no fault of their own. They 
were contractually obliged to complete within days and had little room for manoeuvre.  They  
didnt have the money readily available and were  forced at the last minute  to borrow  £1,599 
more than they had planned  for. For these  reasons  I agree with the investigators 
recommendation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Connells Limited to pay 
Miss F and Mr B £550 compensation for the distress and anxiety caused to them and to 
refund the fee of £499.
Connells must also pay interest on the £499  fee from the date it was paid by 
Miss F and Mr B to the date of refund at 8% a year simple.
If Connells  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss F and Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a tax deduction  certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7253277