K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr T applied  for a credit card in December 1999  but PPI wasnt added  to his account  until 
around three  months  later.
Mr T says he cant remember  much  about the sale but thinks  it was compulsory to get the 
card.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ts complaint  upheld it. Barclays disagrees and so Mr Ts 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr T he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement  
to it. Barclays  says the PPI was sold to Mr T over the phone in March 2000 and that its 
adviser wouldve  got Mr Ts consent to add it to his account. But it cant  give us any details 
about the call  it doesnt know  if it called  Mr T or if he called in. It doesnt have a call 
recording or transcript of the call nor does  it have any guidelines  it can show  us its adviser 
mightve used during  the call.
Mr T says he thought the PPI was compulsory with the credit. That cant  be right,  since  he 
had the card before the policy was added.  But Mr T also says he cant  remember much 
about the sale, including whether it was by post or phone. So I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to attach  much weight to him saying he thought it was compulsory. Barclays  
says that, because the PPI was added to Mr Ts account three months after hed got the 
card, he wouldve agreed to it knowing  he had a choice. But, as Ive said, its given me no 
evidence to show how it did this. And so on the information Ive got, I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to say its more  likely  than not Barclays presented the PPI as optional or 
got Mr Ts consent to it.
Ive looked at Barclays other comments on this complaint but they dont change my 
conclusions. 
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr T in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the policy has already  been cancelled. So:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr T would  owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
Ref: DRN78152922So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr T owes  and what  he 
wouldve owed.
If Mr T made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mr T wouldve owed each  month without PPI  Mr T 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Barclays should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mr T paid. And it should  carry on paying interest  until the point when Mr T 
wouldve owed Barclays something  on his credit card.  The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
C.Barclays should tell Mr T what its done  to work  out A and B.
If Barclays has already repaid any commission or profit share amount to Mr T that relates to 
this PPI sale, that amount can be deducted by Barclays from the compensation Ive set out 
above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Barclays Bank  UK PLC 
(trading as Barclaycard)  to put things  right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7815292