K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
June 2002 alongside a credit card. Mrs H, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. From what Ive 
seen about the card application process,  I think Mrs H made a decision to take out the 
policy. Ive seen  that on her application form there was a section  which had been marked  
with an X to show shed chosen PPI. But I think she would have had the opportunity to 
review her card application form and discuss it with his BoS representative  at the 
meeting before she made a decision  about buying the policy and signing  the application 
form. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs H at a meeting in branch  even  though 
Mrs H isnt so sure about this - so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems 
to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. I say 
this because although Mrs H has told us she enjoyed  good benefits from her employer if 
she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness, the PPI would also pay in addition  
to and most likely  for longer that her employer would  have done. And it would  also pay 
out if she lost her job. So she wouldnt have to rely on other  sources of funding  to help 
out. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mrs H off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
made by those representing Mrs H in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  they dont affect 
my decision.  
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mrs H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mrs H back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN73837652From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS will have paid this to Mrs H by now,  but if not BoS can 
make arrangements  to pay the offer sum to Mrs H now that Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7383765