K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 
alongside a hire purchase agreement.  Mr B says Advantage Finance  Ltd (Advantage 
Finance) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr B says he doesnt recall PPI being mentioned at the time and he thinks it was added 
without his knowledge. But based on the information  Ive seen I think Advantage Finance 
made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say that having seen a copy of his 
credit agreement which included a section called optional insurance  and other products and 
PPI is listed in this section. So from this, I think Mr B wouldve known the policy was optional.  
Ive also seen a tick in the box for PPI and information about  the cost of the policy  entered  
alongside. Mr B signed this agreement to consent  to the information  included within it, so its 
likely he checked through all the information  entered on the form before signing  so I think  
this is what he wanted at the time. 
Ive also seen a copy of a questionnaire  that was filled out at the time which recorded 
information about the suitability of the PPI  so I think Advantage Finance recommended the 
PPI to Mr B. This means Advantage Finance had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr B says that at the time he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer  and couldve relied 
on help from his family to make the repayments  in the event he was unable to work.  But help 
from others cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can also change over time. 
And from the information completed on Mr Bs questionnaire at the time,  its noted that Mr B 
couldnt recall what  his employee  benefits were, if any at all. In any event, the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months and in addition to any employee benefits Mr B wouldve 
received - meaning  that these funds were free to use for other  expenses. And so I still think  
the PPI wouldve been suitable  for Mr B.      
Its possible the information Advantage Finance gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN73541122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7354112