K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 
16th March 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I wont repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be partially upheld 
and what Lending  Stream needed  to do to put things right. I invited both parties  to let me 
have any further  comments  and evidence. 
Mr O responded on 18th March 2020  and accepts the findings in my provisional decision. He 
had no further  comments to make relating to his complaint. 
Lending Stream responded  on 17th March  2020  to say it had received my decision and 
would respond  no later than 16th April 2020 but then didnt send anything further.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have nothing  further to add and I have no new evidence  to consider.
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
Lending Stream now needs to put things right with regards to loans 6-11. 
putting things right
I concluded in my provisional decision  that Lending Stream should  not off-set any amount 
from the compensation that Mr O is due and I gave  reasons for this that can be found in the 
extract at the end of this decision. 
So with that in mind, Lending Stream should put things  right by doing  the following:
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid to either  it or the third party  on loans 6-11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any information  about  loans 6-11 from Mr Os credit file and ask the third 
party to remove any information it has put on Mr Os file also.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN74099542my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Gain  Credit LLC to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74099543EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr O says Gain Credit LLC (Lending Stream)  lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
This complaint is about  eleven  payday  loans Lending Stream provided to Mr O between May 2012 
and September 2013. Details are given below:
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borroweddate ended
1 07/05/2012 £80 29/08/2012
2 30/08/2012 £165 21/12/2012
3 31/12/2012 £165 24/05/2013
4 12/01/2013 £80 29/04/2013
5 14/04/2013 £65 01/07/2013
6 29/04/2013 £115 03/08/2013
7 01/07/2013 £100 07/09/2013
8 07/07/2013 £115 debt sold on to a third party
9 08/08/2013 £60 17/08/2013
10 17/08/2013 £80 debt sold on to a third party
11 08/09/2013 £200 debt sold on to a third party
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Os complaint  in a letter  sent out by her on 14th June 2019.  She 
thought that Lending  Stream shouldnt  have approved any loans from 6 onwards. She concluded that 
by loan 6 a pattern of lending  had been  established where it should have been seen that Mr O would 
more likely  not be able to repay them in a sustainable way.
Lending Stream contacted our service  on 17th July 2019  and offered to pay compensation  by 
refunding the interest and charges for loans  6-11 and remove entries on Mr Os credit file. It also 
added that it would be off-setting the amount that Mr O had outstanding to repay with a third party 
debt collection company. 
On 8th August 2019 Mr O informed  our service  that he would be rejecting Lending Streams offer as 
he didnt think it should off-set anything as the debt with a third party  had been struck off.
So as the parties still do not agree and havent agreed a settlement, the complaint has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman,  to make a decision. I will review Mr Os complaint again  and make findings  
about whether the loans were lent to him irresponsibly. If I find that Lending  Stream have lent 
irresponsibly I will then make  a decision on how Lending Stream should  put things right,  including  
whether it can off-set any amounts that it thinks are outstanding.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr O could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. 
Ref: DRN74099544These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending  Stream should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments  being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably  make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow 
this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Os complaint. Ive decided  to uphold Mr Os complaint in part and have 
explained why below.
Lending Stream asked  Mr O for information about  his income and it carried out credit  checks. It says it 
used this information  to assess whether the loans were affordable for him.
For loans 1-3, given the amounts lent, what was apparent  about Mr Os circumstances  at the time and 
his relatively short borrowing  history with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt 
anything in the information  Mr O provided  or the information Lending Stream  shouldve been aware of 
(including the credit search results), which  meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what  
Mr O was saying.
I think  by the time Mr O asked for loans 4 and 5, Lending  Stream  should  have been carrying out 
further checks  and finding out more about  Mr Os wider financial circumstances. But Mr O also hasnt 
been able to provide any bank statements from this time, and so I havent been able to look into 
whether he had any other wider financial issues that further checks may have uncovered. So I cant 
say based on what I have in front of me, that further checks would have shown that the repayments 
for loans 4 and 5 would have been unsustainable.
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Lending  Streams lending  history with Mr O for the lending 
chain, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which  Lending Stream  should  reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful.  And so Lending Stream  should  
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Os case, I think that this point was reached at loan 6 for the 
lending chain.  I say this because:
Ref: DRN74099545At this point Lending  Stream should have realised Mr O was not managing to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr O had taken out and repaid 5 loans within  around 14 months and was now 
asking for his sixth loan.  At this point, it was more likely than not Mr O was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous  loans were leaving in his finances and Mr Os 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr O wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending  Stream. Lending 
Stream ought  to have known that Mr O was not likely  borrowing to meet  a temporary  shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need.  Mr O had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect; service a debt to Lending Stream over an extended period.
I think  that Mr O lost out because Lending  Stream continued to provide  borrowing from loan 6 
because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The number  of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Os ability to access 
mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans  6-11 for the reasons  given above.
putting things  right  what Lending Stream needs to do
As I have already mentioned  in the background  section of this decision,  Lending Stream says it is 
going to off-set the amount  it says Mr O still owes for loans 8, 10 and 11. These loans had balances 
left outstanding  by Mr O and Lending Stream sold the debt to a third party. It says it will buy back the 
debt from the third party and subtract this from the amount of compensation  it is due to pay to Mr O.
In certain circumstances,  buying back debt owed from a third party and subtracting  it from the 
compensation due can be a fair and reasonable  approach  to take,  if all interest and charges are taken 
off first, leaving the principle amount owed. On 3rd October 2019, Lending  Stream contacted our 
service and reaffirmed that this is what it was going to do. It said it would buy back the loans that it 
had sold to a third party  and would off-set the outstanding amount as the account was not closed with 
the third party. Mr O however says the debt does not exist and the amount should  not be off-set. 
Our service has contacted the third party to gain some clarity about  this. On 17th December 2019 it 
contacted us to say the debt had been dismissed by the courts and that there is no debt owed by Mr 
O. It added that its account  is closed  and it will no longer  collect on it. It also sent to our service court 
papers that showed its claim had been dismissed. 
So in light of this, I am currently minded to concluded that Lending Stream should pay compensation  
to Mr O for loans 6-11 and not off-set any amount from it. I have reached this conclusion as the 
current owner of the debt (the third party)  has confirmed that there is no debt owed and that it has 
closed the account.
Ref: DRN7409954