K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) changed  the terms and conditions of 
his travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr C holds a travel insurance policy, provided by UKI, as a benefit  of his bank account.
Mr C had free travel  insurance  cover with an upper age limit of 75. Any policyholders aged
75 years  or over would have to pay an additional  premium to UKI in order to be eligible to
make a claim. At the time Mr Cs travel insurance policy started, the age upgrade cost £50.
In October  2018, Mr C was notified  that the terms and conditions of his policy were changing
from January 2019. The changes meant free travel insurance cover would last until the
policyholder reached  70 years of age and, at that point, the policyholder  would have to pay
£65 for an age upgrade.
Mr C complained to his bank, saying the original contract hed entered into had been
breached. The bank sent Mr C a final response  letter, but Mr C remained unhappy, so he
brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint but Mr C didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me. I made my provisional decision in May 2020. In it, I said:
In 2017, Mr C agreed with his bank that in return for making  certain minimum deposits into
his account, hed receive the benefit of a travel insurance policy  providing free cover for
policyholders up to a certain age.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs contract  with his bank for his account say:
3.4 The benefits  and services applicable to your account may be provided to you by
external product providers and insurers. In such cases your agreement  for those
services will be with the relevant provider  or insurer
3.5 Where there are additional terms and conditions  applicable to the benefits and
services you will be provided with them. The benefit or service  will be offered subject
to those terms and conditions.
So the contract being complained about here isnt Mr Cs agreement with his bank for his 
account, its the terms and conditions of his travel insurance contract  with UKI.
UKI, and not the bank, is the provider of Mr Cs travel insurance  policy. This means UKI is
the business responsible  for deciding  what level of cover it is prepared to offer its
policyholders and UKI is the business  responsible  for deciding  what, if any, extra premium is
payable by a policyholder  to obtain  additional cover.  So Mr Cs complaint which is being
addressed in this provisional decision needs to be directed against UKI rather  than the bank.
I understand the contract Mr C originally entered into was to pay a minimum sum of money
into his bank account monthly,  in return for free travel insurance provided by UKI. But the
contract Mr C entered into with UKI wasnt one of unlimited duration  and UKI has no
obligation to honour the terms of the original agreement indefinitely.
Ref: DRN73672662Travel insurance policies like the one Mr C holds generally operate  as rolling contracts,
which renew monthly on payment of any relevant account fees or compliance with a
minimum deposit requirement.
In order to maintain  the benefit  of travel insurance cover, Mr C was required to deposit at
least £750 per month into his bank account and UKI would then review eligibility every year
to ensure he met this criteria.
The policy gives Mr C the right to cancel and leave the contract at any time. The policy also
says UKI may amend  the terms by giving 30 days advance notice in writing. So, UKI is
entitled to alter the contract Mr C entered into if it gives  him the appropriate notice set out in
the terms and conditions.
I can understand why Mr C is unhappy  that the terms of cover have changed from when he
first received  the travel  insurance benefit.  But there was never any guarantee that the terms
of this cover  would remain the same indefinitely. Im satisfied Mr C was given the appropriate
notice that the terms of his cover would be changing, in line with the terms and conditions of
his contract with UKI. So, I dont think UKI acted incorrectly by making changes  to Mr Cs
cover.
Turning to the actual changes UKI made, its up to an insurer to decide  what level of risk it is
prepared to cover under  a policy and an insurer is also entitled to decide what  price it wishes
to charge for any upgrades,  taking into account  considerations such  as business  operating
costs and potential  exposure to claims.  Its not for this service to tell an insurer  what  risks it
should cover  or how much it should charge, but Id expect UKI to approach these issues
fairly and to treat customers in similar  situations in the same way.
UKI has provided evidence to show it made  the decision  to lower the upper age limit of
Mr Cs policy  based on relevant data which shows age as a factor  in the frequency and value
of claims.  UKI used this data to assess the likelihood of people  in particular age brackets
making claims. So, Im satisfied there  was a risk-based reason  behind UKIs decision to
make this change to Mr Cs policy.
I appreciate the change  in the cost of an age upgrade represented  a 30% increase.  But Im
satisfied UKI also used relevant claims data to inform its decision to increase the price  of the
upgrade. The same charge applies to all customers in the same situation as Mr C, so I dont
think UKI have treated  Mr C unfairly.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C, but I dont  intend  to recommend that UKI should do anything
further.
UKI didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision. Mr C didnt  accept  my provisional decision.  He 
says his contract was with his bank, not with UKI, and that the contract to receive free travel  
insurance in 2019 was breached. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73672663The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs contract  for his bank account make  it clear that the 
insurance is provided by a different  business,  under a separate contract. Mr Cs bank isnt 
responsible for the terms and conditions upon which his travel insurance  is offered  UKI is.
UKI wasnt obliged  to continue to honour  the terms of Mr Cs original travel insurance  
contract, so I dont  think UKI has acted  unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7367266