K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that they received aggressive correspondence from Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) after they cancelled a direct  debit  they had set up in respect 
of a home emergency  insurance policy
background
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs A set up a home  emergency insurance policy  with RSA. The 
policy was to run for one year,  for which the policy was £39.68.  They set up a direct debit to 
pay this in one amount.  After the premium  had been collected, they cancelled the direct 
debit, as they didnt want the policy to be automatically renewed, and another  premium  
collected, in a years  time.
Mr and Mrs A then received two letters from RSA asking then to restore  the cancelled direct  
debit. RSA says these were sent automatically by its system because  the payment  was 
made by an annual direct debit, and its system  required this to remain  open during the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs A were  cross  at receiving these letters. They had paid all that was needed for 
their policy,  so didnt see why this was required. They didnt  want to leave an open direct 
debit on RSAs system, in part because they say they had previously had to get their bank to 
reclaim another such  payment from RSA. 
On 10 November 2018 they complained to RSA about receiving the letters.  On 12 November 
2018 RSA apologised for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs A had suffered. It changed the 
policy records to remove the reference to direct  debit  so that they wouldnt receive any 
further letters, and arranged to pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of £10.
Mrs A responded and said she didnt think this was enough  she thought  £50 was 
appropriate. RSA agreed,  as a gesture of goodwill, and on 19 November 2018 sent a letter 
confirming this, and separately,  a further  cheque for £40.
On 25 November 2018, Mrs A emailed  RSAs chief executive to complain she hadnt 
received the letter and cheque. On 27 November  2018, RSA confirmed the letter  and 
cheque had been sent. Mrs A then said she hadnt  received  the original £10 cheque,  so RSA 
arranged for this to be reissued on 27 November 2018.
On 6 December  2018, Mrs A complained  she still hadnt received the £10 cheque.  So RSA 
issued a replacement  cheque for £20. On 8 December 2018, Mrs A told RSA she had now 
received a cheque  for £10, but as this was in the joint names of her and Mr A she probably 
wouldnt be able to cash it.
On 10 December 2018 RSA told her it would issue a further £20 cheque to compensate for 
this. On 12 December  2018 Mrs A said she hadnt  received this. RSA said it could take 7 to 
10 days to arrive.
On 6 December  2018, Mrs A complained  to us. She said:
they shouldnt  have received the letters asking them to renew the direct debit 
mandate. This was an aggressive marketing tactic, and the tone of the letters  was 
threatening;
Ref: DRN70436342when she contacted RSA after this, its tone was rude;
she said RSA had promised her £50 but to date she had only received £40; and
she wanted RSA to send a written  apology to her husband, who was the first named 
policyholder.
She made us aware that Mr A suffered from a physical and mental disability.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He didnt agree with 
Mrs A that the letters asking for the direct debit mandate  to be renewed were  threatening, or 
that there  was anything  aggressive about  automatic  renewals by default.
Automatic renewal of policies wasnt uncommon, and some people appreciated this to avoid 
accidental failure  to renew. If a policy wasnt wanted after renewal there was a 14 day 
cooling off period to cancel  it.
RSA said it had sent Mrs A cheques  totalling £80, which  was more than she had asked for in 
her complaint to us. The investigator thought this was enough to recognise  the trouble and 
upset RSA had caused her. He said RSA had confirmed the three  cheques  in question  had 
all been cashed.
Mrs A responded to say, in summary, that:
it was her and her husbands  interpretation  of what was aggressive, rude or 
sarcastic, not the investigators,  that was relevant.  In this connection she reminded  
us that Mr A was both physically and mentally  impaired  due to stroke  and traumatic  
brain injury;
it was a requirement of the Equality Act 2010  that both RSA and this service should 
treat Mr A, and Mrs A as his carer,  fairly;  and
the paltry  £80 compensation that had been paid was inadequate having  regard to the 
distress caused to them both, the conduct  of RSA, and the amount of to-ing and fro-
ing there had been.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think this complaint falls into two parts,  firstly  the action of RSA in asking Mr and Mrs A to 
reinstate their direct debit, and then the delays in paying compensation to them and the 
amount of that compensation.
The action of RSA in asking Mr and Mrs A to reinstate their direct debit
Where a policy is set up to be paid by direct debit, RSAs system requires this to maintained  
during the life of the policy. This makes sense  if payment is being  made  by monthly  direct  
debit. It also facilitates automatic renewal  of an annual policy, which some customers find 
useful.
However Mr and Mrs A paid the whole premium in one amount. And they also didnt want  
the policy to renew  automatically  they wanted to be able to shop around at that time. So 
they cancelled  the direct debit once the payment  had gone through.  They were therefore  
cross when  RSA wrote to them  asking them to reinstate the direct  debit.
Ref: DRN70436343They have complained about  the tone of the letters, which they found aggressive. RSA has 
supplied the text of the two letters, which are as follows:.
First Letter
Dear Mr Customer
Policy Number
We have been  notified that the Direct Debit Instruction applicable  to this policy has been 
cancelled.
It is possible this has arisen  due to a change in your direct debiting arrangements,  or that the 
insurance cover is no longer required.
To continue  your insurance cover:
Please complete the enclosed Direct Debit Instruction and return it to us in the prepaid  
envelope provided.
If you would  prefer to pay the remainder of the current premium in full please call us on the 
number above  to arrange payment.
If you are already in correspondence with us in respect of this matter, please  disregard this 
letter.
Should you have  any queries  or require any further  information, please contact us on the 
number above.
Your sincerely
Subsequent letter
Dear
Policy number
Our records indicate that the premium due under  the above  policy  is payable  by direct debit.
We regret we cannot trace  having received your completed Direct Debit Instruction. Would  
you please complete  and sign the enclosed form and return it to us, together  with this letter,  
in the envelope provided.
Should you have  any queries  or require any further  information, please contact us on the 
number above.
Yours sincerely
Royal & Sun Alliance
Ref: DRN70436344The text of the letters suggest that they werent really appropriate to Mr and Mrs As 
situation, as they had paid their policy in full and there was no remainder of the current  
premium due.
They complained to RSA on 10 November 2018. RSA responded promptly on 12 November 
2018. It confirmed  it had altered the policy records, and they wouldnt  receive  any more 
letters, which they havent. It also said it would pay them £10 as compensation.
At that stage, RSA wasnt aware of Mr As disability. Mr and Mrs A say they found the letters  
aggressive in tone. They consider they were  a ploy to trap customers  into renewing the 
policy next year. They  were particularly sensitive about this as they say they had to recover  
a premium in the past which was taken by RSA by direct debit.
Ive set out the wording of the letters above. As Ive said, I dont think they were appropriate 
to Mr and Mrs As circumstances.  However  I accept  they were system generated. And I dont 
agree they can be considered aggressive  in tone.
At the time they were  sent, RSA says it wasnt aware of Mr As disability. So it had no reason 
to adjust its normal letter. While I accept Mr and Mrs A have suspicions about automatic 
renewal of policies,  this is something  that companies are allowed to arrange.
When Mr and Mrs A complained to RSA about  the letters it acted quickly  to ensure  they 
were stopped. It also offered compensation. So I think  at that stage RSA had done what  we 
would expect it to do to respond to the complaint it had received.
RSAs actions and delays in relation to the compensation
When RSA offered compensation of £10, Mrs A said this wasnt  enough  she said it should 
pay £50. Although RSA didnt  think  it had done anything wrong, it wished to resolve the 
complaint quickly. The first representative Mrs A dealt with didnt have authority to agree a 
bigger amount. She referred the matter  to a superior, who confirmed on 26 November 2018 
that a further £40 would be paid, in addition to the £10 that had already  been despatched.
Unfortunately some  correspondence that RSA apparently sent to Mrs A didnt arrive. I have 
set out the troubles Mrs A encountered above.  It obviously  frustrated her that cheques  that 
were promised didnt  arrive. To compensate  for this RSA ended  up paying Mr and Mrs A 
compensation totalling £80 instead  of the £50 it agreed earlier.
At one stage, Mrs A asked RSA what address it was sending correspondence  to. RSA said:
We are using the same address included in your email; you have received the £40 cheque 
so we can see that you have received mail from us previously."
Mrs A told RSA she found this and rude and sarcastic. RSAs respondent said she was sorry 
she felt this; this really wasnt her intention. I accept that Mrs A thought  the wording used 
was rude and sarcastic. However I think it was intended merely as a statement of fact, and 
RSAs respondent  quickly  said she was sorry if this was how it came across, and she hadnt 
intended any rudeness.
Mrs A also complained to us that Mr A hadnt  received a written apology  from RSA. However 
I can see that RSA wrote  to Mr and Mrs A on 12 December 2018 and said:
Ref: DRN70436345I would like to take this opportunity to thank  you for your patience  in this matter  and also to 
apologise to you and Mr A for any stress that this has caused either of you; this was not our 
intention.
I have considered carefully all Mrs A has said about  the way the issue of compensation was 
handled. I understand how frustrated  Mrs A became. It isnt clear  why some of RSAs 
correspondence went astray,  but Ive no reason to believe RSA didnt send it. I think it 
wanted to resolve  the matter quickly too.
The original  premium Mr and Mrs A paid for their policy was £39.68. Mr and Mrs A have now 
received compensation of more than twice that amount. RSA has apologised for any 
impression of rudeness it gave, and for any stress it caused them. All in all, and bearing in 
mind Mr and Mrs As circumstances,  I think thats fair and reasonable, and dont require RSA 
to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc doesnt  need to do anything beyond  
what it has already done, including the £80 it has already paid, to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7043634