K821x#15complaint
Ms B is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC shut her bank accounts  without any notice.
background
Barclays wrote to Ms B to let her know  it would  be shutting her accounts with immediate 
effect. Ms B had flown out of the country  the day before with her young son for a 
self-catering holiday. She found out her accounts had been closed when she was unable to 
make a transfer from her savings account online. Ms B was due some  money  the day after 
she arrived, which she intended to use as spending money. 
Ms B had no access to any money  while she was abroad and had to get her family  to 
arrange and pay for flights home for them  both.  The first available  flight wasnt  for a few days  
and Ms B had to rely on the goodwill of her holiday representative, so they had food to eat in 
the meantime.  Ms B called Barclays while she was away to find out what  was happening  and 
to make a complaint.  
Barclays, having looked into the matter,  agreed it had made  a mistake and should have 
given Ms B 60 days notice it would  be closing her accounts. It recognised  its actions had 
caused Ms B some trouble and upset and offered her £550 compensation. 
Ms B didnt think this was enough, she pointed out she had to repay her family  over £300 for 
the flights home and shed lost just over a week of her holiday which equated to 
approximately €644. Ms B also explained it was very distressing for her to be abroad on her 
own with a young child and no money. She had to rely on the generosity of her holiday  
representative so she and her son could eat.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  compensation should  be increased to 
£1,000. Barclays  disagreed and said it would offer £750. Ms B said didnt think £750 was 
sufficient to compensate  her for what she has lost and the trouble and upset she was 
caused.
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
further developments
I wrote  to both parties on 28 November  2019.  I said I agreed compensation should be paid 
to Ms B. But I said I thought it should  be worked  out differently, so Ms B was compensated 
accurately for her financial loss. 
I said Barclays should do the following:
Reimburse the cost of the return flight,  stated  as £311.40p on the invoice. Interest at 
8% simple per annum should  be added from the date the payment was made to the 
date of settlement.  
Reimburse Ms B for the eight  days of unused accommodation. The amount for the 
14-day holiday  was €1,128. The euro conversion  rate that applied, on the date she 
paid for the accommodation via her Barclays account, should be used.  Interest at 
8% simple per annum should  be added to this amount from the date the payment 
was made to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN70888682Pay Ms B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she was caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Barclays and Ms B have accepted my findings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given both parties 
have accepted, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint against Barclays  Bank UK PLC and require it to do the following:
Reimburse the cost of the return flight,  stated  as £311.40p on the invoice. Interest at 
8% simple per annum should  be added from the date the payment was made to the 
date of settlement.  
Reimburse Ms B for the eight  days of unused accommodation. The amount for the 
14-day holiday  was €1,128. The euro conversion  rate that applied, on the date she 
paid for the accommodation via her Barclays account, should be used.  Interest at 
8% simple per annum should  be added to this amount from the date the payment 
was made to the date of settlement. 
Pay Ms B £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she was caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7088868