K822xcomplaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain  that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) hasnt paid them a fair 
amount as a cash settlement for their home insurance claim, and have handled the claim 
poorly.
background 
In January 2018 Mr S and Mrs K discovered  a leak in their bathroom had caused damage  to 
the rest of the bathroom and the kitchen below.  They contacted CIS, which said it would 
consider their claim.  
CIS accepted the claim, and arranged for the property to be dried.  That went on for some 
time, and it wasnt until late April that an assessor  visited their home  to establish the cost of 
repairs.
Mr S and Mrs K also provided a quote from their own builder to do the repairs.  CIS thought 
this was too high compared  to the cost of it carrying out the work  through  its own contractors  
but offered  to pay Mr S and Mrs K a cash settlement equivalent to the amount it would have 
paid for the work. Mr S and Mrs K didnt think it was enough, and over the next few weeks a 
discussion took place.  That eventually concluded  with Mr S and Mrs K sending  in another 
quote for more extensive work  than had been  originally identified.
CIS sent another  assessor to look at the new work.  He acknowledged that some  undamaged  
tiling would need  to be replaced in order to make all the tiles match   and suggested CIS 
pay for 50% of the cost of the new tiles and some other remedial work.
In August  2018  CIS said it would pay Mr S and Mrs K an increased cash  settlement as they 
didnt want it to arrange the repairs. This was £7576.45. CIS said that this excluded any VAT 
Mr S and Mrs K night have to pay  but that it would refund this too if they provided the 
relevant invoices. Mr S and Mrs K said they wouldnt  accept this payment, and wanted to 
wait for this decision instead. 
Mr S and Mrs K are unhappy about the offer and say they wont  accept less than £12,000 
towards the cost of repairs  as theyve had a quote  for £13,000.
They also complained about the delays and the way the complaint had been  handled.  CSI 
said it could have done more, and offered £150 to make up for this. But it wouldnt increase  
its offer for the cash settlement. 
Mr S and Mrs K brought their complaint to us. Our investigator thought the cash settlement 
was fair, But she did think there  had been  some more delays in handling the claim, and 
thought the compensation  for this should increase to £200.
CIS said it would  increase  the compensation. Mr S and Mrs K say they wont accept the 
cash settlement offer and want this increased. In particular they say they live in a home with 
very good quality  finishes,  so its reasonable for the repairs to cost more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN73938472This complaint is in two main parts, so Ill deal with them separately.
claim handling
It can often take longer  than initially thought to dry a property after theres  been  a significant 
water leak,  and it appears this happened  here.  However, CIS has acknowledged it (and its 
contractors) didnt always  provide the level of service it should have, and its agreed to pay 
£200 for this. I can see that it didnt always keep Mr S and Mrs K informed of progress  on the 
claim, and there were some unnecessary delays around the time Mr S and Mrs K sent in the 
second quote. That includes delays caused  by CISs  contractors, as CIS responsible for 
those. 
I can also see that some of the delays were because it took Mr S and Mrs K a while  to send 
the quote in  and CIS isnt responsible  for that.
Overall I think  £200 is an appropriate  level of compensation for the inconvenience  this has 
caused.
There has been a substantial delay since CIS offered the final cash settlement,  which  was in 
August 2018.  But that appears to be because Mr S and Mrs K wont accept this offer. I can 
see CSI offered  to pay the amount on the basis that  whatever happened   this was the 
minimum Mr S and Mrs K would receive. If Mr S and Mrs K have  refused  to take this amount 
then I cant say CSI is responsible for that, and no compensation is warranted.
the cash settlement
The terms and conditions  in Mr S and Mrs Ks policy  say that CSI can choose to either  repair 
the damage  or if Mr S and Mrs K dont want that, CSI can provide a cash settlement. That 
settlement need  not be for any more  than it would cost CSI to do the work.
The paperwork Ive seen  says that its been Mr S and Mrs Ks choice to use their own 
contractor. And I can see CSI has assessed  the work  that is needed and offered to give Mr S 
and Mrs K the amount it would have paid to do the work. That will often be less than a 
member of the general public can get the same work done for, as an insurer can negotiate 
more generous discounts. 
Ive looked at Mr S and Mrs Ks policy, and it doesnt provide any cover for replacing  items in 
a set when only some have been  damaged (commonly  called  matching  items cover). So 
Mr S and Mrs K cant insist that CIS pay to replace all the tiles in their bathroom if a match  to 
the originals cant  be found. That seems to be whats happened here with the wall tiles. 
However, this service generally  thinks that Mr S and Mrs K would be entitled to some  
compensation for the loss of match that they would  suffer, and that compensation 
equivalent to 50% of the cost of the undamaged tiles is often fair. I can see CIS has offered 
to pay 50% of the cost of the undamaged  tiles, and I think  thats reasonable. 
The overall offer CIS has made will also be increased by the amount of any VAT Mr S and 
Mrs K pay on this sum, which is also reasonable. 
Mr S and Mrs K say their home has a particularly  high finish  so CIS should pay them the 
amount of their quote. I can see from the assessors  notes that he made  an allowance  for 
the quality of the tiles being  replaced,  so it does seem thats been taken into account. CSI 
Ref: DRN73938473also explained to Mr S and Mrs K that most of the materials  and labour costs shouldnt be 
affected by the cost of the final finishes.  I think thats  a reasonable position to take.
Overall, I think the cash settlement has been dealt with fairly, so I wont be asking CSI to 
increase this. CSI has agreed to increase  the compensation  to £200 overall, and it should 
pay this (less any compensation its already paid).
my final decision
My decision  is that CSI should pay the £50 increase  in compensation and pay Mr S and Mrs 
Ks claim  in line with the offer its already  made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7393847