K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Lloyds (trading as TSB at the time) in 1993.  In 1995 
they took out a PPI policy to protect  their monthly  mortgage payments if either of them  was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Both the mortgage  and the PPI 
were in Mr and Mrs Ds joint names. The monthly  benefit was split between  Mr and Mrs D. 
So if either of them  had made  a successful claim on the policy it would have paid a portion of 
the monthly benefit. And its likely that it would  have done this for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds application for the PPI. I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place more than 20 years ago. 
I know that Mr and Mrs D have  told us they thought the PPI was all part of the mortgage 
and didnt know it was an added extra. Theyve also told us that it was made to seem  
that unless they took out PPI, they wouldnt get a mortgage.
But Ive borne in mind  that when Mr and Mrs D took out the PPI, theyd already had their 
mortgage for more  than two years without PPI. So I think its unlikely that theyd have 
thought that it was compulsory, or an integral part of the mortgage. Taking everything 
into account, I think it would have been  clear  to Mr and Mrs D aware that the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to add it to their mortgage, knowing that they didnt have 
to. But I can understand  how they may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
Lloyds  no longer  has a record of how the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs D. And not 
surprisingly, Mr and Mrs D cant remember. Ive assumed for the purposes  of this 
decision that Lloyds recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs D. This means that it had a 
responsibility to check  that it was suitable  for them. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN78224702Lloyds  hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy document that was in use when  
Mr and Mrs D took out the policy. So Ive considered the oldest available policy 
document, which is from 1998. I think its likely  that the terms and conditions  of the policy  
were similar to the one sold to Mr and Mrs D.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs D have  told us that theyd both have been entitled to 
some sick pay from their employers at the time.  But based on the 1998  policy  and other 
similar policies  weve seen from around  the time of sale,  its likely that if Mr or Mrs D had 
made a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment, the policy  would have 
paid out for up to 12 months. Thats significantly longer than Mr and Mrs D have  told us 
theyd have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, the policy would have paid out 
in addition to any payments  Mr and Mrs D received from their employers. So they could 
have used those  to meet other  day-to-day  expenses.
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage  was a long-term financial commitment,  and 
Mr and Mrs Ds property could have been at risk if theyd fallen behind with their 
mortgage payments.  So taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been 
useful to Mr and Mrs D  especially as theyve told us that aside from their employee 
benefits, they didnt have any other means  they could have used to meet their monthly 
mortgage payments  if theyd been  off sick or been made  redundant.
It may be that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
I think Mr and Mrs D chose  to take the policy. So it looks as if they wanted the cover it 
provided. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest they couldnt afford it. So even if Lloyds had 
given them  clearer information about  the cost, I think its likely theyd still have bought it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover  for example,  
unusual employment  arrangements,  or existing medical conditions. But from what  
theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr and Mrs D would  
have been affected  by any of these. So I dont think better  information about  the policy 
would have put them off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019. 
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822470