K820x#14The complaint
Mr B is unhappy National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund around £2,250 
worth of transactions and transfers that Mr B says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Between 5 July 2017 and 20 July 2017,  Mr B says there were  multiple  card transactions that 
he didnt authorise  and consent to.
And between 12 July 2017  and 7 October 2017,  Mr B says there  were  multiple  transfers 
made from his account that he also didnt authorise or give consent to.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2020. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out in full, the background to this complaint. It also explains 
what my provisional findings were  based  on the evidence and testimony provided to me by 
both parties. 
Broadly summarised, I didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and I provisionally concluded that it 
was hard for me to see how somebody other  than Mr B, or somebody with his knowledge  or 
authority, carried out the transactions or transfers  Mr B was disputing.
NatWest confirmed it had received  the provisional decision and didnt have anything further 
to add. 
NatWest also confirmed  that £50 compensation had been paid to Mr B on 27 March 2018 in 
respect of the delays  Mr B experienced in logging his complaint.
Mr B responded disagreeing with my provisional findings. Mr B said he didnt know  where  or 
to who the money  went to but remained adamant that he had not carried out the disputed  
transactions or transfers.  Mr B was also unsure as to the findings I had reached within my 
provisional decision about transfers  2 and 5  with Mr B thinking  they were  online 
transactions and not transfers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Bs responses and comments,  Ive seen nothing to change  my 
provisional findings. 
Mr B says that he didnt  carry  out the disputed  transactions  or transfers. And within Mr Bs 
response, he focused on the disputed transfers   saying he didnt know where and who they 
went to. So Mr B, in response to the provisional decision, hasnt provided  me with anything  
further to consider beyond what he has already said previously.
As Mr B hasnt  commented with anything further  for me to consider in respect of the disputed 
transactions  I remain of the opinion I reached within my provisional  decision. That is, I 
cant conclude that someone either unknown or known to Mr B, took his card and used  it 
Ref: DRN72262662without his knowledge or consent. So I remain of the opinion that I dont think  it is fair for 
NatWest to refund the disputed transactions to Mr B.
Ill now focus on Mr Bs concerns regarding the disputed transfers.
First, I would like to make it clear  that in reaching my provisional decision, and this final 
decision, Ive considered  the available evidence that is presented  to me alongside any 
testimony in order to determine whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
The evidence shows the transfers were all made through  online banking via a mobile device,  
which meant Mr Bs correct security  details needed  to have been entered  to gain access and 
make the transfers.  Mr B says this wasnt him and he doesnt  know  where and to who the 
transfers went to. 
But I am mindful that Mr Bs testimony  throughout his complaint, first to NatWest  and then 
subsequently when he referred  the complaint to our service, was that he hadnt shared his 
online banking details  with anyone.  And Mr B has also said that he isnt in touch with his 
family and doesnt  have  friends over.
Given this, its hard for me to see how somebody  other than Mr B, or somebody with his 
knowledge or authority, carried out the transfers Mr B is disputing.
Mr B had a concern  about transfers 2 and 5 and was unclear as to the findings I had 
reached about those  transfers within my provisional  decision. Ill explain it again to hopefully 
clarify things  for Mr B.
Mr B considers transfers 2 and 5 were online transactions paying a retailer and a business, 
and not transfers   as they showed on his statement this way. 
I can see why Mr B thinks this. Transfer 2 on Mr Bs statement  looks  like £186.80 was paid 
to a retailer  business  P. And transfer 5 looks like £246.80 was paid to a business  
business D. 
But these  were not in fact online payments to businesses. Customers  cant  make payments  
to these businesses  online. On closer  inspection of these two payments  they were in fact 
transfers to an individuals account. So they were  not online  transactions.  They  are two 
transfers to an individuals account  and the reference has been input as business  names  on 
each occasion.
Further to this, as explained in my provisional decision, the evidence suggests  that all the 
transfers were made to third parties seemingly known to Mr B. With NatWest saying the 
transfers were likely authorised by Mr B, or made  with his knowledge  and consent.
Overall, I agreed. The evidence suggests the transfers were  more likely than not either 
carried out and authorised  by Mr B or made  with his knowledge and consent.  And Mr B, in 
response to my provisional  decision, hasnt provided any evidence to the contrary. Mr B in 
response has said he doesnt know who and where  the transfers went to and has remained 
of the opinion that he hadnt had any family or friends visit at that time, and no-one knew  or 
had access to his online banking security details.
Ref: DRN72262663So based  on the available evidence and based on what Mr B has said, I remain of the 
opinion that its hard for me to see how somebody other than Mr B, or somebody  with his 
knowledge or authority, carried out the transfers Mr B is disputing.
Finally, NatWest has confirmed that it has paid the £50 compensation to Mr B, for the delays 
Mr B experienced when  logging his complaint. NatWest does not need to do anything 
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and within my provisional decision,  I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72262664Copy of Provisional Decision
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy  National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund around £2,250 worth of 
transactions and transfers that Mr B says he didnt  authorise.
What happened
Between 5 July 2017 and 20 July 2017  Mr B says there were multiple card transactions that he didnt  
authorise and consent to.
And between  12 July 2017  and 7 October 2017 Mr B says there were multiple transfers made  from 
his account that he also didnt authorise or give consent  to.
Mr B says that he lives alone, doesnt have any contact with family members and doesnt have any 
visitors to his house. Mr B says that his card wasnt  stolen, no-one had access to his card,  and he 
hadnt revealed his PIN number  to anyone and hadnt shared his online banking details. Mr B doesnt 
know how the transactions and transfers took place  but is adamant that he didnt make them.
When this was raised with NatWest, NatWest  concluded  that the disputed  transactions were all 
carried out using Mr Bs genuine card and were  all authenticated for example either  using the correct 
PIN, contactless payment or the correct details being keyed for online purchases or using the mobile  
application for Get cash payments.
NatWest also concluded that the disputed transfers were made  through online banking which  required 
Mr Bs relevant security  details to be known. NatWest  considered the evidence suggests  that there 
was no way for anyone other than Mr B to have made the transactions or transfers that were  being  
disputed.
Unhappy, Mr B referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and didnt uphold  it. Broadly summarised  they concluded that based on the evidence of the 
transactions and transfers made, alongside what Mr B had said, there wasnt any reasonable 
explanation as to how anyone other than Mr B could have carried out the transactions and transfers 
without his knowledge.
As Mr B disagreed,  and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate 
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations  2009 (PSR 2009). 
I think  these sections of PSR 2009 are of particular relevance here:
Consent and withdrawal  of consent  
Ref: DRN7226266555. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent  to 
(a)the execution of the payment transaction; 
Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment  transactions 
60. (1) Where  a payment  service  user 
(a) denies  having authorised  an executed payment transaction; or 
(b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed, 
it is for the payment service  provider to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, 
accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts  and not affected by a 
technical breakdown or some other  deficiency
So a payment  transaction is regarded  as authorised  if the payer has given  consent to the execution  of 
the payment transaction.  And if a payment service user (customer)  denied having authorised an 
executed payment  the payment service provider (in this case NatWest)  has to prove the payment 
transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised.  PSR 2009 
goes on to say a payment  service provider is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised 
transaction.
Mr B says he didnt authorise the transactions or transfers and is seeking  a refund of the total 
payments made from his account. 
NatWest has said the disputed transactions were made using Mr Bs genuine card with the correct  
PIN being entered at points.  And NatWest  say the transfers  made were completed through  the online 
banking application whereby  the user would have had to have known Mr Bs security  details to gain 
access to the online baking account.
So, I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that its more likely  than not Mr B, or 
somebody with his knowledge or authority, carried out the transactions  and transfers.
From what Ive currently seen and having considered everything  carefully, I think it more  likely  than 
not Mr B, or somebody with his knowledge  or authority, did authorise the transactions. Ill explain my 
reasoning.
The disputed card transactions 
NatWest has provided  evidence to show that Mr Bs genuine card was used for all the disputed 
transactions  and the card had not been cloned. This is known by the chip that sits within the card. 
The payment transactions were all authenticated by the correct PIN being  entered. And when the card 
was used  through contactless payment  again the chip  that sits within the card was read.
So Im satisfied from NatWests technical evidence  that Mr Bs genuine card was physically present 
when each of the disputed transactions were made and that the payments in question  were 
authenticated. This means I now need to determine whether Mr B knew and consented to the 
transactions being made.
Mr B says that he has never lost his card, and it is kept in his wallet. When Mr B is at home, he says 
the card is kept in bedroom.  Mr B has confirmed that he lives alone  and that no one has access  to his 
card. And Mr B has said that he hadnt written down  his PIN or shared this with anyone  and hadnt 
shared his online  banking details with anyone either. Mr B also says he isnt in touch  with his family 
and doesnt have visitors.
Ref: DRN72262666Over the period in question, so from 5 July 2017 up to and including 20 July 2017,  Mr B has disputed 
multiple transactions. But within that time frame Mr B had made transactions  that he isnt disputing. 
Mr B isnt disputing the transactions made on 11 July 2017 and between 15 July 2017 and 20 July 
2017.
As Mr Bs genuine card was used,  means  that someone, whether a known or unknown  party, would  
have had access  to Mr Bs card and knew Mr Bs PIN. And it would mean that they would have taken 
it from Mr B without his knowing and used it for several  days between  5 July 2017 and 11 July 2017 
and then returned it to Mr B, as Mr B used it on 11 July 2017. The card would have then had to have 
been taken again and used on 20 July 2017 and then again returned to Mr B without his knowledge.
Bearing this in mind,  if an unknown third party had managed to gain access to Mr Bs card and PIN 
and online banking details  they would  typically  have tried to gain as much from the account  as 
possible, and as quickly  as they could, maximising spend before the card was reported stolen. 
This didnt happen here. The card was used over a period of days for typical purchases and everyday  
spending  as opposed to a fraudster trying to clear an account of all funds available. And Im mindful 
Mr B hasnt said what he did for money or purchases during the time he didnt have the card between  
5 July 2017 and 11 July 2017.
It is also highly doubtful that an unknown third party would have managed to return  the card back  to 
Mr B, only to then take it again on 20 July 2017  to make two further small contactless payments  and 
again return the card back to Mr Bs possession. An unknown opportunistic thief or fraudster is 
unlikely willing to do this, as they run the risk of being caught when they could  simply have used the 
card to gain what they could and then discard it.
So I cant reasonably conclude that an unknown  third party managed to obtain Mr Bs card and PIN, 
used it over a period over days, and then returned it to Mr B without him realising  it was missing.
Ive also considered whether  a third party  known to Mr B had access to his card and PIN. But the 
same logic as above would apply. A known party would  have had to have  access to Mr Bs card and 
know Mr Bs PIN. They would  then have to use it over a period of time, return  it without Mr B knowing, 
and then taking it again several days later. But Mr B has confirmed the card was never out of his 
possession and he had didnt  have  family  staying with him or any friends  visiting. And Mr B has said 
that his PIN wasnt written down and he hadnt shared  it with anyone.
So, on balance,  based on the evidence  presented and based on what  Mr B has said  I also cant 
conclude that someone known to Mr B took his card used it without his knowledge  or consent.
The disputed payment  transfers
Mr B has also disputed several low value payment  transfers  made. These are:
Transfer Date Amount
1 12 July 2017 £50.00
2 13 July 2017 £186.80
3 14 July 2017 £40.00
4 14 July 2017 £75.00
5 14 July 2017 £246.80
6 24 July 2017 £250
7 27 September 2017 £250
8 28 September 2017 £250
9 1 October 2017 £250
10 7 October 2017 £250
Ref: DRN72262667The transfers  were all made through online  banking  via a mobile device - meaning  Mr Bs correct  
security details needed to have been entered  to gain access  and make the transfers. Given  that Mr B 
has said he hadnt shared  his online banking  details with anyone, it is unlikely that an unknown third 
party would have managed  to have correctly  guessed Mr Bs security details. And had they done,  
then again, I think the unknown third-party  would  have tried to maximise  the amount  they could 
transfer out of Mr Bs account, especially  as there was around £4,000 available  in Mr Bs account on 
12 July 2017 and around £2,500 available in late September / early  October 2017.
The evidence  shows from May 2017 until 3 January 2018 both an android  phone  and an iPhone were 
used to access Mr Bs online  banking  and often these were used from the same I.P (internet 
protocol) address.  An I.P address is an identifying  number that is associated  with a specific computer 
or computer  network  - in essence it provides the location and network  provider  of where the internet 
was accessed from. 
Mr B has said that he only had an android  phone  but the evidence strongly  suggests that this isnt 
the case. I am also mindful that several  months after the disputed transactions  and transfers, on 3 
January 2018, a new payment was set up via online banking (through the iPhone), for a Mrs H. The 
following payments to the same person over the next few months were then conducted through  the 
android phone. 
Had Mr B not had any access to the iPhone and only held an android phone then the payment set up 
on 3 January 2018 for Mrs H wouldnt have  been  set up by Mr B. But Mr B has then gone on to make 
multiple transfers to Mrs H through his android  device which he hasnt  disputed. So in conclusion it 
appears that Mr B was accessing his online banking through an android  and an iPhone up until 
January 2018 and was accessing the internet through the same I.P address.
I can see that Mr B had strong  concerns over transfers 2 and 5, which on the face of it looked as if 
they were online transactions made to a retailer and a business.  Mr B says that these companies  do 
not do online  transactions. Mr B is correct here  but on closer inspection of these online transactions  
the evidence shows they are in fact transfers to an individual  account  and not an online transaction  to 
business P or business D. The payee name shows as business P for transfer 2, and business D for 
transfer 5 but importantly  for both transfers it was to an individuals account. 
NatWest say transfers 2, 5 and 6 were all made to one account. NatWest say the recipient  account 
belongs to someone with the same surname  as Mr B and who also lives in the same area as Mr B. 
NatWest also say transfers 1, 7, 8, 9 and 10 were all made to one account which  again belongs to 
someone with the same  surname as Mr B, and who also lives in the same area as Mr B. 
For transfers 3 and 4, the payee name of the recipient  is seemingly the same name  as that of the 
account holder of where transfers  1, 7, 8, 9 and 10 were made to.
And finally the recipient account holder of where  transfers 1, 7, 8, 9 and 10 were  made to, made  a 
payment back  to Mr B for £20 on one occasion, on 20 July 2017.
NatWest consider the evidence  suggests that the transfers  were made to third parties  seemingly 
known to Mr B.
NatWest had managed to obtain the basic details of the recipient account  holders from the receiving 
banks as Mr B had raised his concern  that the transfers were fraudulent.  NatWest want more details 
from Mr B so it can explore this possibility further.
Ref: DRN72262668I can see that as well as NatWest seeking more  information, our investigator asked  for further 
information from Mr B around this  trying to work out if someone,  possibly known to Mr B and most  
likely a relative, had managed to get access to Mr Bs online banking details. This was in order to 
determine whether the transfers had been done  either with or without Mr Bs knowledge and consent. 
But Mr B remained of the opinion that no-one had visited him or had access  to any of his bank details. 
As explained  above, NatWest has been in contact with the other banks  where the accounts  are held, 
and those banks have provided NatWest with details of the recipient account  holders.  But as Mr B 
hasnt provided NatWest with any further information about any details  of his immediate  family, 
NatWest hasnt been able to explore this further.  Because of this, NatWest say the evidence  suggests 
the transfers were  authorised by Mr B, or made with his knowledge and consent  and there isnt any 
evidence to the contrary.
Overall, I currently agree.  Mr B is adamant that he didnt  authorise  the transactions  or transfers in 
question. But taking everything  into consideration its hard for me to see how somebody other than Mr 
B, or somebody with his knowledge or authority, carried  out the transactions  or transfers Mr B is 
disputing.
So, as it stands, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask NatWest to reimburse him.
I note NatWest offered  Mr B £50 as compensation for the delays Mr B experienced in NatWest 
logging his complaint. This seems fair. It is unclear  as to whether this has been paid. NatWest  or 
Mr B, in response to this provisional  decision, should let me know whether  this has been paid or not.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im currently not intending to uphold this complaint.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7226266