K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  didnt pay his travel  insurance claim, after he 
was refused entry to the USA and had to return to the UK. Although the claim was dealt with 
by Avivas claim handling agent,  Ive referred to Aviva throughout for ease.
background
In 2012 Mr G visited the USA and overstayed by a number of days. Since then, he has 
revisited the USA on a number of occasions and has renewed his travel  authorisation 
application, all without  issue.
When travelling to the USA in 2019,  Mr G was refused entry.  The reason given to him was 
that he had overstayed on a previous visit. He had to return to the UK, and he contacted 
Aviva to claim for the cost of his flights.  But Aviva declined the claim,  saying it was not 
covered by the policy. 
They stated  that trouble  with travel documents before  going  on a trip, which  leads to that trip 
being cancelled  is not covered by the policy. Aviva also explained that being refused entry  to 
a country is not specifically referenced in the terms of the policy,  therefore a general  
exclusion clause applied.   
Unhappy with this, Mr G made a complaint. After reviewing the claim again, Aviva 
maintained he was not covered for refusal of entry. As a result,  Mr G asked us to consider  
his complaint. He said Aviva had refused his claim on the basis that the policy doesnt cover 
refusal of entry,  due to issues  with travel  documents.  And, as all his documents  were in 
order, Mr G didnt agree this applied in his case.  
One of our investigators  agreed that Mr Gs travel documents were in order, therefore the 
part Aviva had mentioned didnt  apply.  But she still didnt think Aviva was obliged  to settle his 
claim and the circumstances giving rise to it werent  covered by his policy.  
Mr G did not agree with this outcome.  He further stated that he got an extension  to the 
standard trip limits in his policy  cover,  which altered the terms and conditions of his policy  
and he was consequently covered. The investigator explained that this didnt alter the 
general exclusions contained in the policy and his situation still wasnt  covered. As Mr G 
disagreed, this has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has stated that a claim cannot be made  for trips cancelled due to an issue with travel 
documents. I have  reviewed the policy documents, and this is not actually part of the policy 
terms, but in the introductory information  about  the policy and so does not apply. In any 
event, I would agree with the investigator, that Mr G had all relevant travel documents  
needed, so this wouldnt be applicable, even if this was a term Aviva could rely on.  
Ive considered the cover provided  under Mr Gs policy. I think  the relevant section for a 
claim as a result of being refused  entry  and having  to return  to the UK is the section entitled 
Abandoning your holiday  if you need to return home early . This lists 12 instances  in 
Ref: DRN78561382which Aviva  state they will pay for additional  travel costs. And these dont include being 
refused entry at all. So, theres  no cover under this section for the cost of Mr Gs flights.
I have also considered the remaining  terms of the policy  and theres no other  section of 
cover that applies. Insurance policies  only provide  cover for the things  listed.  And if 
something isnt included its not covered. But, just to make this clear theres a general 
exclusion clause in Mr Gs policy. This says the policy does not cover any loss that is not 
specifically described  in the cover  sections of this policy.  And this makes it even clearer  
Mr Gs claim isnt covered.
Mr G has explained that upgrading  his policy altered the terms and conditions  and he was 
therefore covered.  Aviva  has confirmed that his policy was upgraded. However, they have 
stated this did not alter the terms and conditions other than to extend the length or trips 
cover was provided for. And, having reviewed the cover Mr G had, I cannot  see anything  to 
suggest the upgrade altered the terms and conditions in any other  way. So, I agree with the 
investigator that the policy still didnt cover the cost of Mr Gs flights  and that the 
abovementioned general exclusion clause still applied.
I appreciate Mr G had travelled to the USA since 2012 without issue. Consequently, it is 
understandable that he may not have anticipated  an issue when he travelled in 2019. But I 
do not think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Aviva  to do anything  further in these set of 
circumstances. Mr G was not covered for what happened to him and so I think  Aviva has 
acted reasonably in not settling the claim.   
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  provided, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Chantelle Sayles  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7856138