K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr P says Close 
Brothers Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  have given me any new 
information for me to consider. Because of this I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision.
what the business need  to do
Close Brothers Limited should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Close Brothers  
should:
- Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
-Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Close Brothers Limited  can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest.  Close Brothers 
must give Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Gemma Farrell
Ref: DRN74035202ombudsman
complaint
Mr P complains that Close Brothers  Limited (Close Brothers) mis-sold to him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy taken out on 18 December 2006.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN74035203Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Ps case.
I currently intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint because based  on what  Ive seen I dont think
he was eligible for the policy. Ill explain  why.
The terms  and conditions state that in order to be eligible  for the policy the customer must be the first 
named customer  in your finance agreement.
The PPI application  signed  by Mr P shows the purpose of the policy was to cover his hire purchase 
agreement ending 1441. Close Brothers have provided evidence which indicates  this hire purchase 
agreement was settled on 29 November 2006  a number of weeks before the PPI was sold to Mr P 
on 18 December 2006. It follows that I dont think that Mr P was eligible  for the PPI - I have not seen 
evidence that Mr P was the first named customer in his finance agreement  as the finance agreement 
the PPI was set up to cover had ended by the time the policy was sold.
If Mr P had been properly told about the PPI he wouldve realised  he wasnt eligible  for its cover - so I 
think he did lose out. I dont  think Mr P wouldve  wanted  to take and then pay for PPI if he wasnt 
eligible for it.
And so for the above  reasons I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
what the business need to do
Close Brothers Limited should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and Close  Brothers should:
- Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
-Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr P made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Close Brothers Limited can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
-
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Close  Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close Brothers 
must give Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently intend to uphold the complaint.
Both parties now have until the date set out above to provide me with new information and/or 
arguments before I consider  the complaint again for a final decision.
Ref: DRN7403520