K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1994 Mr M bought  PPI at the same time as he applied for a mortgage.  The policy gave 
him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. He paid a monthly amount for 
it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional,  and he had to agree  to take it 
out. Mr M says he was told he had to take out PPI for his mortgage application to go 
through. The bank disputes this, saying its more likely than not that the optional nature  was 
verbally explained in good time before the sale concluded. I cant  know what  was said in the 
meeting and Halifax no longer has Mr Ms paperwork from the sale,  or any sample 
documents. But thats not surprising as it was some 25 years ago. Ive thought  carefully 
about Mr Ms comments, but I also have to take into account how long ago the meeting  was 
and how that might affect what  he recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence I cant fairly 
uphold Mr Ms complaint on this point.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M and I think it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen. Mr M was entitled  to between three and six months  sick pay but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to his work benefits  for up to 12 months for all accident and 
sickness claims. And Mr M couldve made repeated claims on the policy giving him long term 
cover for his mortgage.  It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover.
 
Mr M had around £5,000  in savings at the time of the sale but the PPI would have meant he 
could use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working,  or keep them intact for his 
future needs. Mr M was borrowing quite  a large sum over a long period, secured on his 
home. Given how serious the effects of not keeping up with his mortgage repayments could 
have been, I think  the PPI would have been useful  for Mr M if he was sick, had an accident 
or lost his job. 
Ref: DRN77753522Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr M all the information he needed before he decided  to buy 
PPI. I dont know when  the cost was made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. And Mr M doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical  conditions  
or on certain  types of employment contract).  Overall, I dont think  better information wouldve 
changed his decision.
It follows I dont think Mr M has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7775352