K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet  Credit)  lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
background and findings
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2020  in which  I upheld  Mr Gs complaint  in part. 
Indigo Michael has told us that it agrees with that provisional decision and Mr G has said that 
he has nothing else to add.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In view of the responses  from both 
parties, and for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision (attached)  then I uphold 
Mr Gs complaint in part. 
I have reconsidered  that part of the complaint where Mr G has asked for the debt balance to 
be written off. But as that would include  some  of the principal amounts which Mr G will have 
had the benefit of, its only right that those  principal sums are repaid by Mr G. I do not uphold  
that part of the complaint.  
what Indigo  Michael needs to do to put things  right
If the debt has been  sold to a third party, Indigo Michael  should,  if it is able, buy the debt 
back and then action  out the redress requirements  below. If it cant, or doesnt wish to buy 
the debt back,  then it needs to work with the third party to achieve  the same  results.
remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges relating to the new drawdowns from 
1 October 2017;
Indigo Michael should rework the account  from 1 October  2017  so Mr G only must 
repay the principal  borrowed  and it should  treat any repayments made by Mr G to 
Indigo Michael (and the third party if applicable) as if it went towards  the principal 
balance.
When Mr G had repaid enough to repay  the principal,  then any overpayment should  
be refunded to Mr G. To this overpayment 8% simple a year interest should be added 
from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above,  an outstanding principal balance remains,  Indigo 
Michael should arrange with Mr G to repay  the balance. But Id remind the lender of 
its obligation to treat Mr G fairly.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Gs credit file as a result  of not 
stopping the facility from 1 October  2017 until the facility is closed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Indigo Michael to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN76188872my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and direct that Indigo Michael 
Limited does as I have  set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76188873the provisional decision dated 1 June 2020
background
The credit  Indigo Michael offered was a running  account credit facility  where a consumer could either  
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds could be deposited  into their nominated  bank account  
once their account balance fell below the safety net amount of the customers choosing.  A unique 
element is that Indigo Michael obtains  from the applicant a read only facility to that persons 
nominated bank account.  
There was the option for the customer  to make manual  withdrawals. The expectation for customers  
was that they had to repay at least a minimum amount  each month. A feature of the credit facility  was 
that if the consumers bank account balance  dropped  below a pre-set  amount then Indigo  Michael 
would effectively transfer  money into that account to keep it above a certain balance. This was a 
feature often used to avoid straying  into an unauthorised overdraft. Or if the pre-set limit was set to 
avoid going beyond the limit for an authorised overdraft then the net effect was the same  avoidance  
of unauthorised overdraft fees and charges.
I want  to be clear that what Indigo Michael  provided  Mr G was not a payday loan.
Mr G was approved for a credit facility on 19 December  2016. The initial credit limit was £250. That 
was increased  several times and reached £390 in March 2017. 
Indigo Michael says it reviewed Mr Gs bank transaction data for the three months prior to the facility 
being approved. And having done so it was satisfied Mr G wasnt experiencing any difficulty  meeting  
his existing commitments. And so, it decided that Mr G would be able to maintain the facility  he was 
offered. Indigo  Michael said it carried out credit checks. It sent us its explanations  as to how it 
assessed Mr Gs disposable income.
Indigo Michael has said that the December  2017 payment was not made, and from January 2018 
Mr G was in arrears. Mr G has not used the facility  since December 2017. The outstanding  balance  in 
August 2018  was around £893. It was the same in May 2019 - I have no up-to-date figures. Indigo 
Michael reported  the account as in default on 30 June 2018.
Mr G wants  an apology for the irresponsible lending and as they have put me into long term financial 
difficulty over several years,  I would like them to wipe off the debt and refund any interest paid.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and thought that the initial approval for the credit 
facility was not irresponsible. She thought that by June 2017 Indigo Michael had enough information 
from its monitoring  of his account that it ought not to have provided him with further lending from 
15 June 2017.
Indigo Michael disagreed and came back with several  points. These are summarised here:
the facility was affordable to Mr G on its calculations of repayment over a reasonable period;
it was a revolving  credit  facility and so the important factor is not the number of drawdowns, 
but the outstanding balance;
automatic repayments  happened when the bank account balance  increased, and this 
minimised the interest charged to Mr G; 
a swift further draw down is a customer choice. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules  and good 
industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Ref: DRN76188874The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulated the provision of credit of this kind at the time Mr G 
applied. And the relevant  regulatory rules in place  at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook  of rules and guidance.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needed  to bear in mind when  
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In practice all of this meant that a lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an 
informed decision on the credit limit being offered. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did 
not set out compulsory  checks, they did list a number  of things a lender  could take into account before  
agreeing to lend. The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take 
into account  a number of different things, including how much was being  advanced. The checks  
Indigo Michael carried  out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether  Mr G would 
be able to both service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period  of time.
I do not think  that Indigo  Michael  was irresponsible in its lending decision to approve the credit facility  
in the first place. The checks proportionate to a new customer asking for a relatively modest credit 
limit were  made. Mr G worked full time and has said he was living with his parents.  Having reviewed 
Mr Gs bank transactions for the 90 day period leading up to December 2017 then the picture  
presented was one where Mr G was likely able to afford the facility. 
And Indigo Michael was required to monitor the account  during its lifetime. I think  that overall, Indigo 
Michael did monitor the account satisfactorily as, after the March 2017 credit limit increase  still a 
relatively modest one  then no further credit limit increases were approved. And most of the time 
Mr G was able to repay the account to £zero  each month. 
I note that the Credit  Agreement  does  provide  these terms:  
Clause 7.2 We will not increase your Credit  Limit unless we have undertaken an affordability 
assessment and are satisfied that it is responsible for us to do so.
Clause 7.4 As part of our responsible lending  policy, we may choose to reduce your credit 
limit, suspend your account  or not transfer a Credit Instalment if, as the result of an 
affordability assessment,  we determine that your personal circumstances have changed.
I think  that there came  a time later when Indigo Michael ought to have intervened. Mr Gs personal 
circumstances had altered  from when  it first approved the facility  in December 2016 and Indigo 
Michael ought  to have  realised that and acted accordingly. 
Ref: DRN76188875The bank transactions to which  Indigo  Michael  had access, show that Mr Gs income had increased in 
April 2017 by £200 a month. And from 1 June 2017 Mr G started to pay rent having previously lived at 
home. And that was £395  each month which  Indigo Michael have labelled as such and so was aware 
of that change. 
Around this time Mr G was consistently  drawing  down the full credit limit of £390 plus was also 
borrowing from payday lenders. This was a new development as he had not shown any history of 
using any payday  lenders before this. The amounts ranged from £100 to £350.  In August 2017 Mr G 
repaid around £200 to payday lenders.  
For Indigo  Michael  to have  had cause to review  the facility I think  that there had to have been the 
situation where  Mr Gs bank  transactions showed he had regularly taken payday  loans and at the 
same time was using the Indigo Michael credit  facility with full draw  downs, and paying  full rent and 
that this combination had taken place  for a few months. 
Our adjudicator thought that June 2017  was the date at which Indigo Michael ought to have got 
involved. But I do not agree. 
I think  that point was reached by early  September 2017 and for reasons different to that given  by our 
adjudicator. On 1 September 2017 Mr G repaid three different short  term lenders for what  looks to 
have been four separate loans, coming to a repayment total of about £380.  In my view, this 
demonstrated that Mr G was obtaining and needing  new credit in order to repay outstanding loans  
with other lenders and to meet his financial  commitments. Borrowing  to repay borrowing  or to pay for 
priority bills such  as rent was an indication that Mr G may have been  in a situation in which continuing 
to repay the Indigo Michael credit was likely unsustainable. 
On 6 September 2017 payment was taken from Mr Gs account, but Mr G was not able to repay  all 
the sums due. Up until that point, usually, Mr G had been able to repay  it all to £0.  Then on 
9 September 2017 Mr G started to draw down more. Its at this point,  when Mr G had drawn down 
enough to reach a new outstanding  balance  of £408 in mid-September 2017, that I think that Indigo 
Michael ought  to have  stepped in. Given the rent, associated costs with running his own 
accommodation and apparent reliance on STL then Mr G likely couldnt  afford  more  credit from Indigo 
Michael. Mr G did repay  it all to a £0 balance  at the end of September 2017 and then within three 
days in early October 2017 Mr G had taken the full £390 draw down. All fresh drawdowns from 
1 October 2017 is the point  at which I am planning to uphold his complaint.  
As Mr G went  on to pay extra interest and charges because  Indigo Michael didnt  intervene as I think 
that it ought  to have  done,  I think  Mr G has lost out as a result of Indigo  Michaels actions.
I have noted the events surrounding the December 2017 payment. Indigo  Michael explained that 
Mr G had paid in December 2017, then drew down  further, then
 
on  18th December we received contact from the bank that he had contested  this payment and he 
had been refunded this by the bank. He had also cancelled his Continuous Payment  Authority with 
immediate effect. As we did not receive  a repayment  for this amount, it was added  to his outstanding  
balance. 
If this summary  is correct,  and I make no finding  on that aspect as its not a part of Mr Gs complaint 
with Indigo Michael, this will need  to be accounted for as part of the redress calculations for this 
complaint. If Mr G has an issue with that series of payments and refunds surrounding the 
December 2017 payment, then he will need to address it with his bank.  
I have considered that part of the complaint where Mr G has asked for the debt balance to be written 
off. But as that would include  some of the principal amounts which  Mr G will have had the benefit of, 
its only right that those  principal sums are repaid  by Mr G. I do not uphold that part of the complaint.   
end of provisional decision extract
Ref: DRN7618887