K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1999.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs H owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs H couldnt  work because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs H that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs H said nothing was highlighted or mentioned about 
PPI and she had no idea she had taken out PPI. 
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Mrs H at the time of the sale and 
I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover   the name  used by FICL for 
PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs H has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs H didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Mrs H has signed  the overall 
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs H 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  FICL assessed  Mrs Hs individual  needs, such as her employee 
benefits, in order  to make a personal  recommendation  for PPI, so I think its unlikely that it 
did. This meant it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it did have  to make sure 
Mrs H got the information  she needed  to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL  had given her better  or clearer  information, I dont think  it would have 
Ref: DRN78373912made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs H 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as an unusual working arrangement or having  a medical condition of which she was 
already aware.
Mrs H says she was entitled to six months full pay from her employer. But for £1.00 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Hs 
outstanding monthly  balance  until she returned  to work or the outstanding balance  had been  
paid off - and this would have been  in addition to Mrs Hs sick pay. So her sick pay wouldve 
remained protected for other essential  expenditure. Mrs H has said she could have relied  on 
her partners income to make the repayments.  Whilst  I appreciate  that her partner would 
have wanted to help, support from others cant be guaranteed  as their circumstances can 
also change, meaning they are unable to provide  such financial assistance. So this point 
doesnt alter my decision and I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for her.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs H has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7837391