K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  PLC trading as Barclaycard charged  back  a card 
payment for his business.
background
Mr C sold goods worth £506.89 on 30 August 2018. He took a card payment and this was 
processed under his merchant agreement with Barclaycard.  On 4 October 2018 Barclaycard 
wrote to him and said that unless he could provide evidence that the payment was genuine it 
was going to be charged back. Barclaycard has shown him evidence  that the payment was 
keyed into the card terminal.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-An authorisation code was obtained  for the payment. This did not guarantee payment 
but showed that at the time of the transaction the card had not been  reported lost or 
stolen and there were  sufficient funds in the account.
-The genuine card holder was abroad  and by the time the payment had been  seen on 
a statement and challenged  a number of weeks had passed.  And typically there  were  
up to 120 days to make a chargeback  request.
-The payment  was processed as a card not present one. The merchant  procedure  
guide set out some  of the extra precautions Mr C could  have taken. But he says he 
did not realise that this was a card not present payment.
-Mr C felt it unfair that he was being  held responsible where the card was cloned  as it 
looked was likely here. But she said that this wasnt something that was taken into 
account in the chargeback rules.
-The liability for this chargeback  was with Mr C under the terms of the agreement.
Mr C did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He provided a copy of a more 
recent receipt where  payment had been  taken  when a card was swiped and the customer  
had provided a signature. There was no keyed  entry  for this payment. He maintained  that it 
was unfair  he was being held liable for this chargeback.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C runs a small business  and that this was a significant  payment for him. He 
cannot afford losses like this. I appreciate he does not think  its right that he should be 
responsible for this and he insists he processed  the payment  correctly.
I think Barclaycard accepts that what most  likely happened here is that Mr C was distracted 
by the customer in his shop.  Mr C says he was there  for about an hour.  Mr C may not have 
realised that the card details were keyed. And he likely thought that the payment had either 
been authorised  by chip and PIN or when the magnetic stripe of the card was swiped and 
the customer signed the receipt.
The evidence provided by Barclaycard shows that the card details were keyed in. Mr C 
unfortunately only has the bottom  right hand section of his merchant receipt.  I can see the 
authorisation code  from that part and a signature. But Barclaycard says that if the payment 
had been keyed then this would be shown at the top of the receipt.  The more recent receipt 
Ref: DRN70964122Mr C has sent us only shows  a payment made  when a card was swiped. Im afraid that does  
not help me when looking at this chargeback.
The chargeback of payments is governed by a set of rules for the card scheme. 
Chargebacks are assessed against  these. This payment was processed as one where the 
card was not present. The information  from Barclaycard  in its merchant procedure guide sets 
out that these  are more risky payments. And the terms  of the agreement  are clear  in that     
Mr C is responsible for chargebacks which could not be defended. I fully understand that as 
he didnt think it was a card not present  payment he didnt consider taking the extra 
precautions recommended. Nor did he appreciate the particular risks of taking this payment. 
But Im afraid that Barclaycard are not responsible for that. It has to process the chargeback  
unless it can defend it to the card issuer. It was not able to do so and the payment was 
debited back to Mr Cs account. 
I dont find that Barclaycard has made  any error and so Im afraid I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require it to compensate  Mr C for his loss.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7096412