K822xcomplaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc charged her overdraft fees she couldnt afford, 
ignored her letters about  that issue, lied in its letters to her, and didnt acknowledge her 
requests to be contacted in writing instead  of by phone.
background 
In late 2017 Bank of Scotland  increased the overdraft charges  on Mrs Fs account. In March  
2018 she complained to the bank about  the increase.  She said she had been struggling  to 
pay the charges  at the old rate, and could not afford the increase.  She described the 
hardship she had been experiencing, explaining  that she would not be able to afford enough 
food, electricity or heating. She said that she was unable to work, due to the disabilities 
which had resulted from a stroke she had had some years earlier. She asked  the bank not to 
phone her, but only to write  to her. (I will refer later to the reason why.)
The bank sent Mrs F an email in which it said that it could not reply  in detail in an email, and 
that it had sent her a letter instead. Mrs F says this letter never  arrived. She repeatedly wrote 
to the bank to chase  it for a response,  but she received no reply to any of these letters  or 
emails. Eventually,  in January  2019,  she gave up and complained to our Service that the 
bank was ignoring her.
She also complained  about the letters she had been receiving from the bank in the 
meantime. These were not replies  to her original letter  or to her chasing  letters,  but were 
standard arrears  letters. These letters contained  phrases  such  as please get in touch  so we 
can agree  a repayment plan and its important that you get in touch as soon as possible,  
as if she hadnt  been trying  to do that all along.
Bank of Scotland told our investigator that it had sent Mrs F a final response letter in March  
2018, and provided a copy. This said that the bank had notified  her about the new overdraft  
charges, and that they had been  charged in line with the accounts terms and conditions. 
The letter invited her to phone the bank  to discuss her financial situation (even though she 
had asked the bank not to speak to her on the phone), and provided the details of a number 
of debt advice  charities  she could contact.  Mrs F says she never received this letter.  In July 
2018 the bank sent her a second final response  letter, upholding her complaint about not 
receiving a response to her original letter. The bank refunded nearly  £200  in charges, and 
paid her £200 for her inconvenience.  Unfortunately Mrs F did not receive  this letter  either, so 
she didnt know why this money had appeared  in her account or who it had come from. She 
therefore didnt  want to spend  it in case she had to pay it back to someone  who had paid her 
in error.
Two days after the compensation and refunds were credited to her account, Mrs F received 
a letter  from the bank which began as follows:
Your overdraft charges  have  returned to normal
We spoke  with you previously and agreed that we would  temporarily stop overdraft 
fees on your account whilst you were experiencing financial difficulties.  As your 
account is back  in order we believe your situation has improved.
Mrs F complains about two aspects of this letter. Firstly, it was not true that the bank had 
ever spoken  to her. She knew  she had never  spoken to the bank, because of her stroke. 
Secondly, her situation had not improved: she was still disabled,  still unemployed, and still 
unable to pay her overdraft charges or her mounting  arrears.  The reason the bank thought 
Ref: DRN73852222her situation  had improved was because  of the money which the bank had recently credited 
to her account. At first Mrs F didnt  think it was safe to spend that money (as Ive explained 
above), but once  she finally  learned that this money was compensation paid to her by the 
bank, she objected to the bank using  that money to pay off some  of her overdraft charges. 
She complained that her situation had only improved as a result  of the compensation the 
bank had paid her with one hand,  only to take it away  with the other  hand.
After that, Mrs F continued  to chase the bank  for a reply to her complaint, but she did not 
receive a reply. (She also complains about  a formal demand she received on Christmas 
Day, but as she had not complained to the bank  about it before  turning to our Service,  that 
letter has not been considered as part of this complaint.) Finally,  she complains about the 
banks letters asking  her to phone the bank after she had told the bank that this was 
impractical.
Bank of Scotland agreed that it had not handled the complaint properly. But it said it had 
already compensated Mrs F for that in July. It said it doesnt reply to emails because they 
are not secure.  Its letters to Mrs F had been correctly  addressed.  The letter  about  her 
improved situation  had been  automatically  generated  by its systems once her account  
balance had returned to below the overdraft limit. It said that Mrs Fs account had been 
passed to the banks  Customer Priority Team (CPT) in January 2019  (before our investigator 
had told the bank that this complaint had been  brought to our Service),  and the CPT had 
been dealing  with Mrs F since then. The bank argued that it should  not have to do anything 
more.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted the banks arguments. Mrs F 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her case. I would  like to apologise to both parties for how 
long it has taken for this case  to be assigned to an ombudsman.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows:
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am minded to uphold  it. I will explain 
why.
I think that the compensation Bank of Scotland paid Mrs F in July 2018 was fair 
compensation for what had happened up until then. But problems continued to occur  after 
that, and so I think that further compensation is due to her for some of those new issues.
The banks letter of July 2018 was correctly addressed,  and I accept that it was sent, so 
I dont think it is the banks fault that it wasnt delivered. I have noted that Mrs F told us that 
the local mail is extremely reliable,  but that doesnt  mean I can infer that it was the banks 
fault she didnt  receive  it.
Nevertheless, after that letter was sent, Mrs F asked the bank where the nearly  £400  of 
credits to her account had come from, and it didnt tell her until 2019.  I can see no evidence  
that the bank replied  to her during that period   about six months!  and meanwhile  it sent 
her arrears  letters asking her to get in touch. To her at the time,  that must have felt like 
adding insult  to injury.  It is made  worse  by the fact that the bank  had already recognised that 
it had failed to respond  to her earlier. It had paid her compensation for that, but still failed to 
Ref: DRN73852223prevent the problem  continuing. I can see how that would have added to her stress at a 
difficult time. That certainly merits further  compensation.
I have seen Mrs Fs account statements for most  of 2018. As Ive said, the compensation 
and refunds which were  paid into Mrs Fs account in July 2018 brought  her account back  
within her overdraft limit. She made  one cash withdrawal of £150 a few days  later, and then 
didnt use the account again  (at least not until October 2018,  the most recent statement Ive 
seen). This left her account balance  about  £7 below the overdraft limit. It remained there 
until September, when  the daily overdraft charges resumed (they had been  stopped  in May), 
and so the balance exceeded the limit almost  at once. 
I understand Mrs Fs argument  that these fees amount to the bank taking back  the 
compensation it had paid her, but I do not agree with it. The bank could not have known that 
no further income (not even the state benefits she had previously  been  receiving) would  be 
paid into the account between July and September. And she had actually withdrawn  three 
quarters of the compensation within a few days of receiving it.
However, I dont think the bank did enough to address  her financial difficulties once she 
reported them. A lender which learns  that its customer is in financial difficulty  has a duty to 
treat her sympathetically and positively. This might involve waiving or freezing fees and 
interest, although not necessarily: lenders have a broad discretion to try different ways to 
help. Usually, the first step will be to encourage the customer to contact the lender and 
discuss the problem.  But in this instance,  asking Mrs F to phone  the bank  was not a solution, 
because she had already told the bank that she couldnt use the phone.
Bank of Scotland has pointed out that in Mrs Fs first email  (dated 4 March  2018) she didnt 
mention that her stroke still affects  her speech. But I dont  think that was a helpful  point to 
make, because in that email she did say Please contact  me by email as the mobile  phone  
reception is poor and I cannot afford  a landline. So asking her to phone  was still a mistake. 
However, as she didnt receive the banks first letter saying that, I wont  award compensation 
for what that letter said.
Not long later, on 21 March, Mrs F sent another email which said: I am unable  to contact 
you by phone as my speech  is affected by my major  stroke and I also have phone  problems  
in my remote location  Post or email communications are reasonable adjustments for my 
disabilities. (Medical evidence available regarding my stroke). So from that point on, the 
bank knew that she couldnt speak on the phone because of a disability.
It is therefore very regrettable that after that date,  the bank sent Mrs F letters asking her to 
call, and saying  that the bank would try to contact her by phone  if it didnt  hear from her. That 
should not have happened. I think the same thing about the letter  which started with We 
spoke with you previously , which was not true. I appreciate that this is standard  wording, 
used routinely in letters  which are just templates to which the customers name and address 
are added, but I do not accept that as an excuse. Mrs F is right to point out that there  is a 
statutory duty to make reasonable  adjustments for someone with a disability. Here, 
reasonable adjustments would have  meant  tailoring letters  to suit her particular case, and 
avoiding the phone as the preferred  method of communication.  But that duty was not 
complied with.
That was not merely  an oversight but, it appears, a conscious decision by the bank. An entry  
in the account history,  dated 7 May 2019, states  that although Mrs F had mentioned  her 
inability to speak,  nevertheless it was still the banks process  to call customers and speak to 
Ref: DRN73852224them on the phone. So either the bank had no process for accommodating  customers who 
cannot use the phone,  or its staff were unaware of any such process.  In either  case, 
I consider that to be a serious breach of the banks legal duty to make reasonable 
adjustments and communicate with Mrs F in another  way.
It is not my role to punish the bank for that failing by fining it. But I will require the bank to 
compensate Mrs F for the considerable inconvenience and, I have no doubt, distress this 
must have  caused  her.
The failure of the bank  to adequately  respond to Mrs Fs letters  and emails  after its second 
final response letter in July, its failure to consider alternative ways  to communicate with her 
besides the phone,  and its insensitively worded letters to her all merit further compensation. 
But in addition to all of that, the bank does not appear to have done very much to address 
her financial  difficulties between March 2018  and January 2019.  All it did in March 2018 was 
ask her to phone it, which was obviously not good  enough. It did tell her the contact details 
of debt charities, and its not the banks  fault she did not receive  that letter  but even if she 
had received it, I dont  think  that would have been enough. The bank should  have 
established a line of communication with her, and should have  referred her to the Customer  
Priority Team much  sooner. Refunding charges in July was helpful, but I note that this was 
described as compensation for not responding to her sooner; it was not intended as an 
attempt to help her deal with her difficulty in paying  the charges  to which  the banks 
answer in March, and repeated in July, was simply that it was entitled to charge them.  That 
is not a sympathetic and positive response, and nobody at the bank got to grips with this 
issue for nearly a year.
The result was that the banks payment of compensation triggered an automatic letter  telling 
Mrs F that her situation must have improved,  because she was now within  her overdraft limit 
again, when in fact her circumstances had not really changed at all. I think  that was clearly  
intended to be a reference  to her financial situation  and not her health,  but I accept that it 
caused her some distress. It could have  been  avoided if someone had been engaging with 
her, which by then they should  have  been.
The assistance the CPT would have given  Mrs F if it had become involved sooner might not 
necessarily have consisted of refunding more charges,  or freezing charges. As I have said,  it 
would have had a range  of options to consider. I wont  speculate about what  it would have 
done. So I think that the fair compensation in this case is to award  a lump sum which reflects  
all of the complaint  issues I am minded to uphold. Considering the whole case in the round, 
I currently think that £700 is fair, but I will reconsider  this when I have read the parties 
responses.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties  by the date below, I intend to order Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Mrs F £700,  in addition  to what it has paid her already.
I am likely to say that the bank may off-set most  of this money against Mrs Fs outstanding  
debt. But I currently think she should have a portion of it paid directly to her, so that she may 
spend it on herself, if she so chooses.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mrs F accepted my provisional decision.  Bank of Scotland also accepted it, and offered to go 
further. It said it had reviewed her case and decided that it should have defaulted her 
Ref: DRN73852225account in July 2018 and accepted her offer of token payments of £1 a month from her since 
then. It apologised  for not having done this at the time, and offered to take this step now, and 
to backdate the default marker on her credit file to 9 July 2018. (Alternatively, Mrs F could  
agree another repayment plan if she wished to.) I will therefore say that the £700 should  be 
paid to Mrs F directly, instead  of off-setting it against the debt. I will leave it to the parties to 
agree between themselves what to do about the outstanding debt.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mrs F £700, in 
addition to what it has paid her already. This is to be paid directly to her.
I also order Bank of Scotland plc to only communicate with Mrs F in writing  from now on, and 
not require her to speak  with it on the phone, as a reasonable adjustment  to take account of 
her disability.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7385222