K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about their treatment by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited after it 
withdrew their private medical insurance  policy and moved them  to a new policy  with a 
different type of no claims discount (NCD) scheme.
background 
Mr and Mrs H held a private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP.  The policy  was subject 
to an NCD scheme which  had eight levels ranging  from 0% to 50%. When the policy 
renewed in December 2016, both Mr and Mrs H were entitled to an NCD of 45% and their 
premiums were £1,780  and £1,518  respectively.
During the policy year, Mr H made  a claim under  his policy.
AXA PPP decided to close  the particular policy. When Mr and Mrs Hs cover  was due to 
renew in December 2017, AXA PPP therefore  invited them to switch  to a new policy which  
had an extended  NCD scale  of 17 levels ranging  from 0% to 80%. It said Mr H would be 
entitled to an NCD of 67% and Mrs H would be entitled to an NCD of 77.5%. Their offered 
premiums were £2,771  and £1,630  respectively.
Mr H asked, through his broker, about buying back the claim hed made during the policy  
year to remove their effect on his NCD. AXA PPP confirmed this was possible. It made 
several attempts  to confirm the amount he would have to pay to buy back  the claim but each 
time it made  a mistake. Eventually,  it told him the correct amount of £1,399. Mr H paid this 
and received an NCD of 77.5% which meant his premium became £1,889. AXA PPP 
furthermore agreed to provide Mr and Mrs H with one months free cover.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to AXA PPP that the introduction of the new NCD scale  disguised  
a large increase in their underlying base premium.  They thought the new NCD scale  was 
unfair because it meant that any claims which they now made under  the policy would greatly  
increase their future  premiums. They furthermore complained about  the wrong information 
theyd been given concerning the buying  back of Mr Hs claim. And they complained  that 
they hadnt been given  the month of free cover as promised.
AXA PPP didnt uphold their complaint.  It said the price of their policy had been  calculated 
accurately. It maintained  that the new NCD scheme  offered  certain advantages to Mr and 
Mrs H over the previous  scheme. It apologised for the wrong information given about the 
amount needed  to buy back Mr Hs claim but noted that the correct  information was 
eventually provided.  It apologised that the one months free premium  hadnt been applied but 
promised to arrange this.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  at AXA PPPs response. They referred  their complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He considered 
AXA PPP had acted  fairly in moving Mr and Mrs H to the new policy, placing them where it 
did on the NCD scale and charging  them their respective  premiums.  He considered that AXA 
PPP provided a poor service when Mr H was trying to find out about buying  back his claim 
for which it should pay £100 compensation. And while he noted  that AXA PPP was intending 
to apply the free months cover at the end of the policy year, he considered Mr and Mrs H 
had been led to believe this would be done sooner. He therefore thought  AXA PPP should 
refund a months premium plus interest  from the date the first monthly premium was paid.
Ref: DRN77202962AXA PPP accepted the adjudicators findings  but Mr and Mrs H did not. They still considered 
that through  the introduction of the new NCD scheme, AXA PPP had unfairly increased the 
underlying base price  of their cover and had failed to provide any explanation  for this. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part.
AXA PPP made the commercial decision to withdraw the particular policy  which was held by 
Mr and Mrs H. Im satisfied it was entitled  to do this. It offered Mr and Mrs H continued cover 
through the policy which most closely matched the withdrawn policy. I consider this was 
reasonable.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how to devise its pricing structures 
and how much to charge  for its policies. Provided  it does this fairly and consistently, in 
accordance with its internal guidelines, it is a matter in which  we wouldnt normally interfere.
AXA PPP has explained  how it calculated Mr and Mrs Hs premium  for the new policy. I cant 
share this information  with Mr and Mrs H because it is commercially  sensitive. However,  I 
can assure them that I have checked  the information  and am satisfied it has calculated  their 
renewal premium accurately and fairly.
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is less to do with the actual amount  they are required to pay and 
more about the increase in their underlying  base  premium due to their positioning  on the 
new NCD scale. Mr and Mrs H point out that because AXA has increased their NCD to 
77.5% it means  their underlying base premium has been hugely increased. In the event of 
making claims, they could end up paying far more for their cover  than they were  due to pay 
under the withdrawn policy.
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs concern. However, AXA PPP has chosen  to make its prices  
more responsive to an individuals claiming  behaviour which is a commercial  decision it is 
entitled to make. It has placed Mr and Mrs H at a point just below the top of the NCD scale, 
which was where they had been  under the withdrawn policy. I think it was up to AXA PPP to 
decide how to migrate its policyholders from the old NCD  scale to the new NCD scale. If it 
had placed Mr and Mrs H further down the scale, while keeping their premiums  as they are 
now, AXA PPP may have  felt it could have resulted in Mr and Mrs H eventually  paying far 
too little for their cover  compared to other  policyholders. As it is, Mr and Mrs H still have the 
opportunity to slightly increase their level of discount. Im satisfied that AXA PPP has treated 
Mr and Mrs H in the same way as its other migrated policyholders who were in a similar 
position on the old NCD scale. I cant reasonably say that AXA PPP has acted unfairly.
I consider that AXA PPP provided a poor service when Mr H asked about buying back his 
claim. I note that AXA PPP has agreed  to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs H which I consider is fair.
Ref: DRN77202963I furthermore consider that AXA PPP should have provided the one months free cover at the 
start of the policy term rather  than towards the end. I think that AXA PPP should provide one 
months free cover and pay interest  on this amount from when the first premium was paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complain in part. I require 
AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited, if it hasnt done so already, to pay Mr and Mrs H £100 
compensation and to refund/waive one months  premium, plus interest on this amount 
calculated from the date Mr and Mrs H paid the first premium of the policy year to the date of 
settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If AXA PPP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs H a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7720296