K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about a default  registered  by Sainsburys Bank Plc. It affected his credit 
rating and increased  the cost of his re-mortgage.
background
Mr H is represented in this complaint by Mr W. In late 2017 Mr H asked  Mr W to refinance an 
existing property to release  some funds. Mr H took out a re-mortgage for nearly £230000. 
But Mr W said because  of an error  by Sainsburys Bank Mr H had to accept a more 
expensive loan. The bank  had mistakenly  placed  a default on his credit record.  And it 
affected the loans he was eligible for.
Mr Hs adviser  said the net effect of the mistake caused over £18000 of additional costs over 
the five-year period.  So Mr H wants compensation for the additional interest  and charges he 
will have to pay because of the banks mistake.
Sainsburys Bank said Mr H previously had a credit card with the bank. Hed fallen into 
arrears and a default was applied in June 2011. The default expired in 2017.  But during a 
system update the default had mistakenly  been  reported to Mr Hs credit file again. But it 
hadnt been reported until September 2018. And that was when itd appeared on his credit 
file. Sainsburys Bank  said itd arranged to have  the default removed from all three  credit  
reference agencies.  And it offered Mr H £150  compensation  for the mistake.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys Banks response. So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He said there were a number of criteria a borrower would 
need to meet  not just credit checks.  He could see one application had been declined  
because of affordability. And the only default  showing on Mr Hs credit file at the time of the 
application wasnt connected to Sainsburys Bank. So he couldnt  hold it responsible for 
Mr Hs re-mortgage options.
Mr H didnt agree. He feels Sainsburys Bank was responsible for him having to apply for a 
more expensive mortgage even if the default wasnt showing on his credit  file. He doesnt  
think the compensation offered is enough. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand how frustrating this 
mustve been for Mr H. Hes sure an error by Sainsburys Bank affected the terms of his re-
mortgage. So Ive looked very carefully  at everything thats happened to see if Sainsburys 
Bank has done anything wrong.  And if so what it needs to do to put things right. 
 
Mr H says he held back from re-mortgaging because of a problem with a default being  
reported during  2015/2016. But in April 2018 he needed  to move ahead  with his plans. So 
Mr W looked at the products available to Mr H. And the re-mortgage was completed at the 
end of June 2018. Mr W says he advised against a particular product. Mr H was sure 
Sainsburys Bank was misreporting a default.  It wouldve meant  the application being 
rejected. And that wouldve affected what other options were  available.
Ref: DRN77493712Mr H said he didnt have time to contact the credit agencies to have the default  removed.  He 
needed to act quickly in case there was a reduction  in the value of his property. So he 
accepted a loan at a rate of 3.65% rather than the cheaper loan at 2.56% which he felt was 
unobtainable because of the reported  default.
Ive looked at a copy  of Mr Hs credit  reports. But the only default showing relates to a debt 
from a different business. There is no reference to the previously settled debt with 
Sainsburys Bank. And Sainsburys Bank has confirmed  it only mistakenly reloaded  the 
default to Mr Hs credit file in September 2018  after the re-mortgage had taken place. 
Mr Hs credit file from August 2018  confirms nothing was being reported by Sainsburys 
Bank at the time Mr H was seeking  a re-mortgage.
I realise Mr H is sure Sainsburys  Bank  was still affecting his credit  score.  He believes the 
default was recorded on his account invisibly. But Ive not seen anything  to confirm this 
might be the case.  And in any event Mr H and Mr W decided not to pursue an application  for 
a lower interest-rate  loan because they believed a default by Sainsburys Bank was actually 
showing on Mr Hs credit file. But that wasnt the case during this period. The only recorded 
default related  to another debt. 
Sainsburys Bank has accepted it mistakenly  reloaded the default to Mr Hs account for a few 
months after hed had completed  his re-mortgage. But based  on everything Ive seen I cant 
hold it responsible for the decision not to apply for a cheaper loan. The decision was taken 
because Mr H thought  Sainsburys  Bank  was reporting a default  on his account. But that 
wasnt the case. The default showing on Mr Hs credit report related to a different business.
Sainsburys Bank has offered £150  compensation for its error. I think thats a fair response in 
the circumstances. And I wont be asking  it to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7749371