K821x#15complaint
Mr S complaint is about the way Crowdcube  Capital Limited presented an investment
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he
invested in was inaccurate and Crowdcube  should  have  checked this.
background
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive  shares in the business.
Mr S made an investment in a food takeaway company (Company A) via Crowdcubes
crowdfunding platform in 2016. This raise  was to fund the opening of two new sites,
having previously  grown  from two to four sites. Mr S received  an email in December 2017 
from Company A explaining it was launching another  crowdfunding campaign to raise  funds  
to open up two additional sites.
This crowdfunding campaign was also promoted  through Crowdcube. The pitch  explained
that:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry  through its takeaway only locations with rapid
delivery and custom  technology. Now raising funds  for further expansion.
Mr S invested around £18,000 in Company A during  this fundraising round and as Company
A substantially surpassed its initial £500,000 target, the round successfully closed in January
2018 and he was allocated shares.
Mr S said he was led to believe that Company A was going to use his investment, in part, to
open up new sites,  as confirmed in its business  plan. In May 2018, Mr S began emailing
Company A to enquire when  the new sites would open. In July 2018,  he arranged to meet
with one of Company As directors to express  his concerns about the lack of information
given about the new sites opening. Mr S continued his enquiries and when he later found
out that Company A wouldnt be opening up the new sites, he requested  that Company A
buy his shares back, but it declined.
Mr S raised a complaint with Crowdcube  as he felt the information it had provided him with
was misleading. He said that, had he known that Company  A wasnt going to use his
investment to open up new sites, he would never had invested.
Ref: DRN75904732Crowdcube looked into Mr S complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary  it said:
Mr S undertook an assessment to confirm  he understood the risks of investing 
crowdfunding and self-categorised himself as a sophisticated  investor.
Its terms and conditions  make  it clear that Crowdcube may approve statements that 
convey ambitions even where  it does not believe or does  not have a view on whether 
it is likely  that these  ambitions will be fully realised.
Company A underwent its standard due diligence process  before approving the pitch.
Company A originally  planned to open  further  sites as set out in its business  plan, but 
after the fundraising round closed, its directors reviewed the costs in light of changing  
market conditions and decided  it wouldnt be in the best interest to open the sites.
Crowdcube spoke  to Company A to understand the reasoning  behind  this change  in 
the business model and didnt uncover anything that was premeditated or untoward 
in their decision.
It believes it would be counter intuitive to investor  protection to bind a business to 
execute only one business plan as this may lead to a loss of investment.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr S complaint  but didnt think Crowdcube  had done
anything wrong. In short, he said:
He was satisfied  Mr S was aware  of the risks involved in crowdfunding.
Crowdcube doesnt endorse  or own the businesses  it promotes  on its platform.
Crowdcube made Mr S aware  that forward-looking statements and entrepreneur 
opinions in the pitch may not turn out to be correct  and many  early stage companies 
fail.
Having read Crowdcubes risk warnings and due diligence  charter,  its clear  
Crowdcube isnt responsible for a business making a decision after receiving funding 
via the platform  and so it had no control over how Company A should use the funds.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, he said:
The majority  of the information about  the investment promotion was contained within  
Company As business plan.
One section  of this included  a geographical  store rollout plan showing that three new 
sites were in the pipeline to be opened.
Another section  explained that half of the £500,000  Company  A was looking to raise  
would be used  to open a new site and referred to one other site already being in the 
pipeline.
Company As business plan was a restricted document which Crowdcube said it 
didnt conduct  due diligence on. But by allowing the key details of the investment 
promotion to be contained in this restricted document, which  was exempt  from due 
diligence checks, meant that Crowdcube hadnt acted fairly or professionally  in 
accordance with his best interests.
It wasnt made clear to him that restricted documents werent  subject to Crowdcubes 
due diligence   hed since looked  on Crowdcubes website and found this information 
but explained that it wasnt easy to find.
He fully expected Crowdcube  to have seen evidence of leases  and other necessary 
agreements to show that the new sites were either  in place, or under negotiation, 
before promoting  the investment.
Ref: DRN75904733Overall he felt Crowdcubes promotion  of the investment opportunity  in Company A 
was not fair and clear and non-misleading and that its due diligence analysis could 
and should have detected  some warning signs that the sites wouldnt be opened.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
Having passed  the case to me for a decision, Crowdcube made the following  further  
representations:
It didnt conduct  due diligence to verify what further expansion entailed as it is an 
understood action  of raising finance. 
The information about opening up new sites was only contained in Company As 
business plan.  This was a restricted document which was only made available to 
members who requested this directly  from Company A. 
It made it clear to investors that it doesnt review or approve restricted  documents.  
And such documents are exempt  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 
(Financial Promotion Order) 2005  (FSMA).
Its not in contention  that Company A changed  its strategy  and did not open  further  
sites, but this is not the same as saying that the financial promotion was misleading.
It agreed that if there  was no real plausible prospect  of further  sites being opened, 
then that would have been  misleading. However,  it didnt  think  that was the case  
here.
It said that it had verified Company A had grown  from two sites to four between  the 
fundraise in 2016 and December 2017. So it was completely plausible  that Company 
A would be able to expand  by adding further sites. Company A had done  it before, it 
had experience of doing so and there wasnt any particular barrier to do so again.
Mr S also made our service aware  that Company A had since entered into creditors  
voluntary liquidation, following a winding up resolution being passed  by Company As 
members in May 2020. 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020. In it I said:
It clear to me that Mr S decision to invest in Company A was based  on his understanding
that it was going to use the funds raised  to open up new stores. Company A isnt authorised
and regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), so I cant  consider its decision not
to use the money  raised in this way.
Instead, Mr S complaint  is against  Crowdcube  as the crowdfunding platform  that promoted
the investment  opportunity. Crowdcube  is authorised and regulated by the FCA and as such,
my provisional decision will be limited to the actions  of Crowdcube.
The relevant  rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in
the FCAs Handbook of rules  and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all
authorised firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 
2.1.1R. The most relevant  principles here are:
Principle 2 (PRIN 2.1.1R  (2)) - A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and
diligence.
Ref: DRN75904734And Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R (6)) - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests  of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Crowdcube is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) - A firm must  act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance  with the
best interests of its client.
And COBS  4.2.1R (1) - A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is
fair, clear and not misleading.
In determining whether  Crowdcube has adhered to its regulatory obligations in Mr S case,
Ive referred to the FCAs consultation paper on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment  
based crowdfunding platforms for guidance.  Whilst I appreciate Mr S invested prior to the 
publication of the consultation  paper  in July 2018, its still relevant as it provides clarity  as to 
the interpretation and application of existing rules and guidance  which were applicable to 
Crowdcube at the time. In this, the FCA explained:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its 
obligations under  Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests 
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence  to satisfy itself on 
the essential information on which any communication  or promotion  is based.
Therefore, Crowdcube  had to satisfy itself on the essential information on which  the
promotion of Company  A was based.  Mr S complaint  is particularly unusual  in its
circumstances because  there was little in the way of essential information contained within
Company As pitch. Instead,  much of the essential information on which  the promotion was
based was contained within Company As business  plan - a restricted  document,  not
approved by an authorised person and so under FSMA, Crowdcube  didnt need to ensure it
was clear, fair and non-misleading.
The crux of Mr S complaint is that Company  A didnt use the funds raised in the way in
which Crowdcube promoted it would. However,  there is a distinct  lack of information
provided in the pitch about what Company A wanted to raise funds for. The only information
given on this point  is:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry  through its takeaway only locations with rapid 
delivery and custom  technology. Now raising funds  for further expansion.
The pitch  provides no further clarification regarding  what further expansion for Company A
entails. Clearly, how a business  intends  to use funds raised through  crowdfunding is
essential information which should  be provided to investors to enable them  to make a
reasoned decision  to invest or not. Providing all relevant and essential information is
especially important considering Crowdcube was promoting high-risk, non-readily realisable
securities to Mr S.
Ref: DRN75904735Whilst I appreciate Crowdcubes point  that further expansion is an understood action of
raising finance, I think its fair to say that this is a particularly vague statement which could
be interpreted by an investor to mean a variety of intended business  ventures. In Mr S case,
theres no doubt in mind  that he understood this to mean Company A was going  to open up
new stores.  I say this as hed received an email from Company A prior to him deciding to 
reinvest which explained:
We have decided to launch a crowdfunding campaign. We are in a really  good place 
at the moment,  showing  14% like for like growth and profitable at store level. Having 
said that, we need  to add two more stores to become profitable enough at head  
office level to pursue  debt financing and more organic  store growth.
In addition to this, Company As business plan explained that Company  A was, looking to
raise a minimum of £500,000 for a new store and other business  improvements, and it
further explained that £250,000 would specifically  be used to open a new store. As Ive
previously mentioned, Crowdcube  wasnt required  to perform due diligence  checks on this
document. However, this doesnt distract from the fact that Crowdcube was still required to
promote the investment opportunity in Company  A in a clear, fair and non-misleading way
and so it ought to have  checked what Company A meant  by further expansion.
The FCA said in its July 2018 consultation paper that:
In relation to statements  about future commercial success, this should include at 
least a basic plausibility check. For example,  if a borrower says it is going to build a 
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction  
permissions, it would  seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of 
the project.
Further expansion is clearly a statement about  future commercial success  and as such,
Crowdcube ought to have  conducted  at least a basic plausibility check  on this. Crowdcube
has explained that it believed it to be completely plausible that Company A would use the
funds for further expansion. It said it verified, through lease documentation, that Company A
had grown from two stores to four between the fundraise in 2016 and December 2017. So it
saw no reason not to believe that Company A could do the same  again following this
fundraising round. Whilst I agree  that this is sufficient due diligence to support the first part of
the pitch statement  of, Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since  their last round on Crowdcube, 
I dont agree that such checks  are sufficient to confirm the plausibility of further expansion.  I
say this as just because a business  was previously able to expand, by way of opening up
new stores,  doesnt  necessarily mean  it will be in a position to expand in the future.
In order to safeguard  investors such as Mr S, Crowdcube ought  to have asked what
Company A meant by further expansion and should have checked whether this was
plausible. Considering Crowdcube  had seen lease documentation for the two previous
stores, an example  of how it could have performed a plausibility check  could have been by
obtaining similar documentation for any new stores it intended  to open. Even if the
documents werent yet finalised, Crowdcube could have asked for evidence of agreements
in principle or anything  to demonstrate Company A intended to open  new stores.  In the
absence of this information, I dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube was acting in Mr S
best interests, as it failed  to ascertain how Company A would expand and how plausible
these plans were.
Ref: DRN75904736Whilst I accept  that a business may have to change its plans following a fundraise, the
question I have to consider  is whether  Mr S would have invested  in Company A had he
known that Crowdcube  hadnt verified what Company  A meant  by further  expansion or
checked how plausible these plans were. Ive thought very carefully about this in the whole
context of what Mr S thought he was investing  in, and having done so, I dont think he would
have invested.  I say this because  shortly  after re-investing in Company A he contacted it to
enquire about it implementing the plans to open the new stores.  And as soon as he
discovered Company  A wasnt going  ahead  with these plans, he asked it to buy back  his
shares. This isnt to say that all investors  in Company A wouldnt have gone ahead  with the
investment, but rather that Im satisfied  that it would have made a material difference to Mr
S.
For these reasons, Im currently  minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint. As such, I consider
Crowdcube ought to compensate him.
putting things right
When looking to put things right for  Mr S, my aim is to put him as close as possible to the
position he wouldve  been in but for Crowdcubes  error.
As Ive said above,  Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have gone ahead with his investment. So as a
minimum, Im persuaded that he ought  to receive  the amount he invested in Company A
back. I understand Company A has been  wound up and as such, the shares Mr S has in
Company A are worthless.  If my understanding on this is wrong Id be grateful if the parties
could clarify  the situation in response  to this provisional decision.
The question is therefore whether Mr S ought  to receive a return  or interest on this money.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im currently not minded to award Mr S any additional
interest. I say this because Im also satisfied that Mr S would  likely  have looked for another
opportunity to invest at the time. And given the generally higher risk nature of these
investments, and the likelihood that these  companies might fail, I consider there  was an
equal chance that Mr S may have lost some or all of his investment anyway. I acknowledge
that he might  also have made a return. But without  the benefit of hindsight, it simply isnt
possible for me to fairly establish what  return  Mr S would likely have made.
So in my view, the fair and reasonable way of putting things right for Mr S is for Crowdcube
to pay him the capital  he invested in Company A  which I understand was £18,000.
Crowdcubes response to my provisional decision
Crowdcube didnt  accept my provisional findings.  It said it did conduct  due diligence  on what 
Company A meant by further expansion . It maintained, in terms of testing plausibility of 
expansion plans  at such an early stage of development,  that the past performance of 
Company A was the best test of whether it was plausible it could expand by opening more  
sites. It also provided call notes to evidence the conversations it had with Company  A about 
its early stage plans.
Crowdcube also said that, given the significant investment Mr S made  in Company A and his 
assertions that he was investing based on it opening  new sites, its highly unusual  that he 
made no enquiries about Company As plans. It said it goes to great  lengths  to point out to 
investors throughout the investment process that they should do their own due diligence,  but 
Mr S failed to do so. 
Ref: DRN75904737Crowdcube also said it was inappropriate to hold it entirely responsible  for Mr S loss as any 
loss was as a result of Company A failing - not by the actions of Crowdcube. And that it had 
no control over the internal decision of Company A not to open up new sites.  
Finally, Crowdcube questioned whether  £18,000  was Mr S actual loss as he may have been 
able to claim certain tax reliefs. It said the investment in Company A qualified for Enterprise 
Investment Scheme (EIS) relief of 30% of the amount invested  and so any award  should  
take this into account, as well as that he should  have mitigated his loss by also claiming loss 
relief. 
Mr S response to my provisional decision
On the whole, Mr S was happy with my findings. However, he felt that interest should also be 
awarded, as he says he wouldnt have invested in another crowdfunding opportunity, if not in 
Company A.
He also added that he had made considerable effort to mitigate his loss by making best 
endeavours to get Company A to buy back his shares.  
I wrote  to both parties to clarify  my provisional findings around redress which  I will address in 
my findings  below. Prior to this, Crowdcube put forward  an offer to resolve Mr S complaint 
but he didnt accept it. And so a final decision is still required.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat the findings  I made  in my provisional decision  they are set out 
above and I dont consider the information Crowdcube has provided in response  to that 
provisional decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously said.  However,  I do 
intend to address in more detail some  of the issues which Crowdcube has raised  in 
response to my provisional  decision, and which it considers  ought  to mean this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld.
Whilst Ive considered all of Crowdcubes  points, my decision will focus on what I think  are 
the key issues  in dispute  mainly the extent to which  Crowdcube  performed due diligence  
and whether the pitch was fair, clear  and not misleading.
The FCA doesnt outline the due diligence process a platform should perform, nor does it 
prescribe a set minimum  standard of due diligence.  The FCA recognised this in its March 
2014 publication on the regulatory approach to crowdfunding over the internet, and the 
promotion of non-readily  realisable  securities by other media:
4.22 Some respondents asked for guidance to explain in more detail what  the 
disclosure requirements and due diligence requirements are in relation to the offers 
made by investee  companies.
Ref: DRN75904738The following  was the FCAs  response to this in the publication:
The financial promotion and disclosure rules continue to apply.  Firms  that 
communicate or approve financial  promotions will need to ensure  that they comply 
with the rules, particularly  the requirement  for the promotion  to be fair, clear and not 
misleading.
[]
In satisfying the financial promotion  rules  we expect sufficient detail to be provided to 
give a balanced  indication of the benefits  and the risk involved, including  whether or 
not any due diligence has been  carried out on an investee company, the extent of the 
due diligence, and the outcome of any analysis.
So although  there isnt a prescribed amount of due diligence a platform should  perform, its 
clear that in order to comply with the fair, clear and not misleading requirement, Crowdcube  
needed to make Mr S aware of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company 
A. It also had to let him know the outcome  of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed  to allow 
him to weigh up the risks and benefits  of investing  in Company A.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful  information on crowdfunding. This 
includes a section on how consumers  should  protect themselves before investing  and says 
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms  on investee  companies. 
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes  it clear what due diligence it performs  in its due 
diligence charter.  It explains:
The following due diligence is carried  on each  company before the pitch is open to 
investment:
[]
fact check  all statements and claims made in the pitch  text to ensure it is fair, 
clear and not misleading by obtaining,  where possible, independent evidence.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  there  was a distinct  lack of statements or claims 
made in the pitch  for Crowdcube to have fact-checked. However, the pitch  did say Company 
A had gone  from two sites to four since its last round on Crowdcube  and that it was raising  
funds for further expansion, so it ought to have fact-checked this by way of its due diligence.  
Since issuing my provisional  decision Crowdcube has provided  more clarity around the due 
diligence it performed. It says that in order to satisfy  itself it was plausible  Company A would 
use funds for further expansion by opening  new sites, it discussed with Company A what  
further expansion would look like. Crowdcube  says Company A advised that it had a number 
of locations in mind  but as these plans  were at a relatively early stage, there was limited  
documentary evidence  available.  It also says it was clear from the discussions it had with 
Company A that these plans  were  genuine. Crowdcube has provided records of what 
discussed during  these  calls to illustrate  this. A record  from a call in November 2017,  shortly 
before the pitch went live, says:
4 units currently  several  more  in the pipeline   what does that mean?
This shows Crowdcube did perform due diligence and that, as a part of this process,  it 
questioned Company on its plans  for opening  new sites.  However, there was no information 
recorded about Company As responses and so its unclear  what further enquiries 
Crowdcube made or to what extent Company A responded. 
Ref: DRN75904739I understand Crowdcube feels  strongly  that it didnt promote the opening  of specific  sites at 
any point and rather, promoted  Company A had expanded from two sites to four and 
intended to expand further.  Im afraid  I dont  agree. Crowdcube had a regulatory  requirement 
to ensure the promotion of the investment in Company A was fair, clear and not misleading. 
Its not clear what further expansion  means  and the pitch  provides no further clarity. I think  
any reasonable person reading having grown  from two sites to four, followed by (in the next 
sentence) now raising funds for further  expansion would reasonably  assume that Company 
A was looking to open up new sites with the funding.  The fact that Crowdcube asked 
Company A questions  about opening  new sites further supports this. In other words, the 
pitch was at best unclear, and at worst misleading.  
I appreciate the difficulty a platform faces  in testing  the plausibility  of whether an investee  
company will do what it says it intends  to do in its pitch.  And I understand that Crowdcube 
tested the plausibility of the statement of further expansion by combining Q&A  with Company 
A with evidence of its track record of opening new sites. However, its apparent  in Mr S case 
that Crowdcube knew Company As plans  for using  the funds were  at an early stage and 
were not substantiated  with sufficient documentary evidence for it to conclude how plausible  
these plans were. Yet Crowdcube didnt make  Mr S aware of this anywhere  in the pitch.  And 
in not making  him aware, I dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations 
under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R (6))  the clients best interest rule or under COBS 4.2.1R (1) 
 the fair, clear and not misleading rule.
The pitch  didnt provide sufficient detail to give Mr S a balanced indication of the benefits and 
the risk involved in Company A. As far as Mr S was concerned, Crowdcube had fact-
checked Company  As plans for expansion  in line with its due diligence charter  and it was 
reasonable for him to believe these  included plans for opening new sites.  There  was no 
reason for him to believe these werent  sufficiently substantiated  or that there was a risk that 
Company A might not open up any new sites. 
As Ive said above,  I think Mr S was reasonably entitled to conclude  that further expansion 
would involve the opening of new sites. And given  everything Crowdcube  said it did before 
approving a pitch, Im persuaded he thought Crowdcube had satisfied itself about Company 
As plans  for further expansion. In my view, Mr S was entitled  to know that there was in fact 
no evidence of any concrete plans for further  expansion. Mr S would then have been able to 
decide for himself  whether to believe  Company As aspirational claim knowing that there 
was, in fact, nothing but its previous  expansion to support this. Mr S contacted  Company A 
several times after investing  to ask when it would  be opening the new sites. And when he 
found out Company A wasnt going to open  these, he immediately asked it to buy back his 
shares. So Im persuaded this was a key reason for him to decide  to invest. And therefore,  
Im satisfied that if Mr S had known that there  were in fact no concrete plans for this further  
expansion, and that as part of Crowdcubes due diligence, no evidence of these  further plans 
had actually been uncovered, he wouldnt have invested. 
Ref: DRN759047310putting things right
As explained above, Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt  have gone ahead with his investment in 
Company A. So the starting point is to repay him the £18,000 capital he invested . However,  I 
understand the investment qualified  for EIS (Enterprise  Investment Scheme)  tax relief and 
so Mr S could have claimed  up to 30% of the money he had invested  in tax relief   so its fair 
for Crowdcube to deduct this full amount. 
But if Mr S can provide evidence directly  to Crowdcube that he wasnt  able claim the full 30% 
tax relief, then Crowdcube should only deduct the actual amount  he was able to claim. 
If for any reason HMRC were to subsequently  disallow that tax relief  claimed,  upon  evidence 
of such, Crowdcube  need to pay him the amount deducted in light of the available reliefs 
taken within  28 days of Mr S notifying them and providing evidence.
I understand Crowdcube has also said that loss relief should be deducted. Ive considered 
the evidence Mr S has given me, and Im not persuaded on balance  that Mr S did in fact 
claim loss relief. I appreciate Crowdcube  believes that this relief might be available in the 
future. This would depend on Mr S future  circumstances which  arent known at this moment 
in time. My role is to decide  matters  in a fair and reasonable way and with a minimum of 
formality, as well as to give some finality to the complaint. I consider it fair and reasonable 
that I also bear in mind  my findings  above, that none of this wouldve occurred if Crowdcube 
had correctly promoted this investment to Mr S. Therefore, I dont consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to require  Mr S to be under an ongoing duty to disclose or provide more  
information in the future  about  his personal circumstances. For these reasons, Im satisfied  
that only the relief  which Mr S has actually claimed and received ought to be taken into 
account by Crowdcube  for the purposes of paying  compensation.  
Ive also considered Mr S points  regarding interest.  However, Im not persuaded it would  be 
fair and reasonable to award this in all the particular  circumstances of this case. I say this as 
I have to consider  putting him back in the same  position he would  have been  in had he not 
invested in Company A. And I must  do so without the benefit  of hindsight. Its clear  he was 
looking to invest in a crowdfunding  opportunity at the time of investing in Company A and Im 
aware he had previously invested in crowdfunding opportunities before this - as recently as a 
couple of months  before  investing  in Company A. I understand  Mr S says he wouldnt have 
invested further in crowdfunding beyond this investment, however, Im not persuaded this 
would had been the case had his investment in Company A not ended badly. As Ive said,  
Im satisfied he would  likely  not have invested in Company A  but probably wouldve 
invested in another, similar crowdfunding opportunity.  
As explained in my provisional decision - given  the generally higher risk nature of these 
investments, and the likelihood that these  companies might fail, I consider there  was an 
equal chance he may have lost some or all of his investment had he invested  in another  
crowdfunding opportunity other  than in Company A. I acknowledge that he might also have 
made a return.  But without the benefit of hindsight, it simply isnt possible for me to fairly 
establish what return he would likely  have made, if any. For these reasons, I consider that 
fair and reasonable compensation be a return of Mr Ss initial  investment, subject to the 
deduction of any tax relief  that he claimed  at that time. 
Ref: DRN759047311my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Crowdcube Capital Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Ben Waites
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7590473