K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) declined  their claim for a refund 
of the price they paid for a timeshare that had been  misrepresented to them.
background
Mr and Mrs S say a third party business that Ill call Business A pressurised them into 
paying £9,000 to extend their existing timeshare ownership with Business A. They  say they 
made the payment through their account  with Santander. And they later realised the 
timeshare had been misrepresented and mis-sold to them.
So, they say Santander should  refund  the £9,000 they paid for the timeshare. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.  She said Mr and  
Mrs S hadnt  used credit to make the payment,  so the transaction  wasnt  covered by Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75).  And she said the payment hadnt been  made  
by debit card either, so a chargeback couldnt be considered.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. They  said they wouldnt  have  
paid for the timeshare  by bill payment  if theyd  known it didnt give them any protection  
through the bank. And they said it wasnt fair for them  to be denied  rights both under S 75 
and through the chargeback scheme  without being  offered any solution to their complaint.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
There are usually two methods by which a consumer may be able to claim against  their bank 
for disputes against third party businesses from which theyve  bought goods or services.  
These are either under S75 or through a relevant chargeback scheme.
Ill now discuss both of these methods and their relevance to Mr and Mrs Ss situation.
S75 applies only to goods  or services bought using credit from a bank or other  finance  
provider, for example by using a credit  card to make  the purchase.  I see Mr and Mrs S 
originally believed theyd  bought the timeshare using their Santander  credit  card,  but they 
now realise they in fact made a bill payment through their online bank account.
As the timeshare wasnt bought using credit  provided by Santander, S75 doesnt  apply.  So, 
Mr and Mrs S cant use this section to claim against Santander for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by Business A.
Mr and Mrs S have  also referred to the chargeback scheme as a possible means  by which  
they might  have a claim against Santander  for whats happened to them.  And I see it 
appears Santander initially wrongly  told them a chargeback wasnt available because  they 
were outside  the time limits under the scheme. Although  I see it later said the correct reason 
Ref: DRN73860162the chargeback  scheme didnt apply was because they hadnt  used their Santander debit 
card to pay for the timeshare.
Chargeback schemes  are operated by the global organisations  that process debit and credit 
card payments. As such, they only apply to payments made either  by credit card or debit  
card. Mr and Mrs S acknowledge they didnt use their Santander debit card to pay for the 
timeshare they made  an online bill payment. So, this means Santander couldnt have used a 
chargeback to seek redress on their behalf, even if the request had been made within  the 
time limits under the relevant chargeback scheme.
This situation has clearly  caused a great deal of distress for Mr and Mrs S and Ive 
considerable sympathy for them. But neither S75 nor chargeback apply in this situation  and I 
cant see any other reason that Santander could  be expected to help them with their dispute  
here. 
So, this means I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7386016