K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that TransUnion International UK Limited merged his credit record with one 
belonging to someone else.
.
background
Mr K said his problems first started in June 2018  when  he began to receive correspondence 
about debts he didnt know anything about.  Then  in January 2019 he received a High Court 
writ, notification of a County Court  Judgement  (CCJ) and information  that bailiffs would be 
attending his property to collect over £1,000.  He then discovered TransUnion had merged 
his credit record with one belonging to someone else. 
TransUnion said Mr Ks credit  record had unfortunately been linked with that of a third party. 
It said it would like to apologise for the very obvious inconvenience this has caused. It said 
itd now amended his details  and offered to compensate for any loss incurred provided he 
submitted documentary evidence. And it said it was clear Mr Ks concerns hadnt been dealt 
with in a manner we both would have hoped for.
Our investigator looked at the impact  this had on Mr K. And having  assessed that impact, 
she thought TransUnion  should pay Mr K £750 and any out of pocket  expenses  such as the 
CIFAS £20 registration fee. Mr K said he accepted our investigators view. And he said his 
out of pocket expenses came  to £28.07. TransUnion  didnt agree with our investigator  and 
said her assessment was unreasonable considering the case  and previous case  studies. It 
said it was prepared to offer him £250  plus costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
TransUnion said our investigators assessment was unreasonable when comparing it with 
other cases. But we consider each complaint on its individual merits. TransUnion made a 
mistake by merging Mr Ks credit  record  with one belonging  to someone else. Over a period 
of eight months he received demands for debt repayments from a number of companies. He 
had to make  numerous  phone  calls trying  to sort this out. At one point he believed hed been 
the victim of identity theft. 
After receiving a High Court writ, a letter of enforcement and notice of a county court  
judgement against  his name in January 2019,  Mr K discovered there  was a problem with his 
credit record  and contacted TransUnion to complain. But due to a technical error it took 
another two months before TransUnion reassured Mr K that the problem had been resolved. 
This was a very worrying  time for him. And he was put to a great deal of inconvenience.  In 
those circumstances  I think  £750  compensation for his trouble and upset and £28.07  for his 
expenses is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN76687002my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
To put matters right TransUnion International UK Limited must pay Mr K a total of £778.07 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7668700