K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Marks & Spencer Financial Services  Plc (M&S). It didnt  pay him the 
full compensation  after he had problems  with his credit card.
background
Mr D had some problems  using his M&S credit card. In January  2019 he tried to make a 
purchase for £35.10. When the transaction  was declined  he spoke to M&S. TSB said his PIN 
code had been locked. Mr D had entered the wrong  PIN and he would have to use an ATM 
to unlock it. Mr D said the problem had caused him some embarrassment. So TSB said it 
would refund the £35.10  as a gesture of goodwill. 
The same thing happened again  a few weeks later. So Mr D was told a new card would be 
sent to him. And Mr D was credited with a further  £40 compensation. When  Mr D tried to use 
his card for a ticket purchase costing  £375 it was declined again. And the price  of the ticket 
went up. He also missed out on some goods  which went out of stock.  
Mr D said M&S offered £300  compensation but he wanted the tickets and goods he had 
missed out on. M&S said it wasnt able to do that. So Mr D said it offered £454.54 to cover  
the total price  of the goods he couldnt buy. However he only received  £75 compensation. 
So Mr D would like the full amount hed been  promised.
M&S explained Mr Ds card had been blocked  because hed used the wrong PIN on a 
number of occasions. So itd advised  Mr D had to unlock his card.  When the transaction  was 
declined in February Mr Ds PIN was still being blocked. So it issued a replacement card and 
paid a further £40 as a gesture of goodwill. Because a replacement card had been 
requested Mr D wouldnt have been  able to use the old card for the tickets or other goods. 
M&S apologised if it gave Mr D confusing information during any of the calls. But it felt the 
additional £75 compensation  already  paid was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She felt a lot of the problems  Mr D had experienced were  because  he 
had used the wrong PIN and locked  his card. And M&S had explained what Mr D needed to 
do to get it working  again. But she did think M&S  had caused some confusion  during one of 
the calls. And itd been poor service to offer £465.54 compensation and then reduce the 
amount. After looking at whatd happened our investigator felt the £150.10  already  paid to 
Mr D was adequate  compensation. 
Mr D didnt agree. Hed been  through a lot of stress and pain. And hed been  told he would 
be getting more.  So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration. A number of card payments were declined  and caused  
him embarrassment. And he was told he would be compensated  for his losses  but M&S 
didnt pay the full amount. So Ive looked very carefully at everything Mr D and M&S have 
said. 
Ref: DRN71325152In cases like this it can be difficult to determine  exactly what has caused the problem. M&S 
says Mr D used the wrong PIN on a number of occasions. And that led to his card being 
blocked for security  reasons. M&S explained it couldnt unlock the card itself  Mr D would 
have to do that. But Mr D tried to make  other  transactions before following the instructions. 
And again they were declined. Mr D was able to use his card on some  occasions  but only 
when he wasnt required to enter his PIN code. I realise Mr D said he was sure he knew the 
right PIN code. So it should work  okay. But he wouldnt have been able to use his card until 
he unlocked it himself.
M&S agreed  to issue a new card to try and sort things  out. And I cant really hold M&S 
responsible for the problems Mr D had using his card. It was Mr D who seems  to have been 
entering the wrong PIN. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr D and M&S. And I think M&S did try and explain what  
was happening.  And what he needed to do to resolve the problem. But I do agree that Mr D 
was given some confusing information  about  a possible fault with the merchant during one 
call. And I do think M&S gave Mr D a poor level of service when he was promised 
compensation during one call  only for the amount to be reduced after it had been  
reviewed.
Its important to realise its not the role of this service to punish M&S.  We award  what  we 
think is fair and reasonable. So Ive looked at everything thats happened to see what, if 
anything, M&S should do to put things right. 
Although the declined  transactions seem to have been caused by Mr D using the wrong PIN 
code, M&S  credited  his account with £35.10  and then a further £40 as a gesture of goodwill. 
And I do think M&S explained  he wouldnt be able to use his old card after a new one had 
been requested.  So I dont think it would  be fair to expect  M&S to cover the cost of tickets or 
other goods that Mr D wasnt able to purchase  as a result  even if one of M&Ss managers 
initially suggested it would.
M&S has now paid an additional  £75 compensation for the confusing  information it gave to 
Mr D. And I think thats the right amount. It brings  the total compensation to just over £150. I 
know Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think M&S has compensated Mr D 
fairly for the mistakes it made. And I wont be asking  it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7132515