K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says the household insurance  she took out through Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank) was mis-sold.
background
In mid-2018 Mrs Ss husband made a claim on their household insurance policy after his 
watch was stolen. He was paid £1,500, the maximum for an unspecified personal 
possession, which he says was considerably  less than the watch was worth.  He was 
unhappy with this but the insurer said the policy limits were agreed  when the policy was 
taken out and it was sold by Yorkshire  Bank.
The policy was first taken  out in March 2016 and held in Mrs Ss sole name. The policy  limits 
were agreed  at outset  and the optional personal items protection  was taken with the total 
cover amount set at £4,000.  The policy renewed in 2017 (at which  point Mr S was also a 
policyholder) and 2018. The personal  items limit increased slightly by an index-linked 
amount at each renewal  so that it stood  at £4,260 by the 2018  renewal. 
Mrs S says she was sold the policy over the phone and decided  that £4,000 would be 
enough to cover both her rings and Mr Ss watch,  while those items were away  from the 
home. She says she wasnt told the maximum amount that would be paid for each individual 
unspecified item was £1,500. 
Yorkshire Bank said the policy  was sold in branch rather than over the phone, no advice was 
given and the person Mrs S spoke with wouldve worked through the sales quote system  
reading out whatever information  needed to be shared. 
Our investigator didnt  think the bank had done  anything wrong. He thought the level of cover  
was set out clearly  in the paperwork Mrs S wouldve been sent at inception  and renewal.  
And she couldve queried this if it didnt  match  with what she thought  shed taken out. Mrs S 
didnt agree so the case has come to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think Yorkshire  
Bank mis-sold the policy   Ill explain why.
Mrs S is adamant the policy was sold over the phone and seems to suggest  her complaint 
should succeed purely because the bank doesnt  have a recording of the call. Conversely 
the bank says it was sold face-to-face in one of its branches. I havent seen anything  which  
supports one sides story more than the others  in this respect. But even if the policy  was 
sold over the phone,  I would be unlikely to uphold this complaint just because  a recording of 
the call doesnt  exist. Its not unusual for us to have to make decisions where there is limited 
evidence available  and both sides are putting  forward a different version  of events. In such 
situations I must make my decision based on the balance  of probabilities  in other words I 
dont have to be sure something happened, I just have to be satisfied as to whats more 
likely. 
With that in mind, Ive reviewed all the paperwork the bank says would  have been  produced  
and sent to Mrs S after she took out the policy as well as what  was sent at each renewal. I 
Ref: DRN72421222think that helps  to build a picture of what was likely  discussed during the conversation with 
the bank. So:
The Welcome Pack explained the schedule was enclosed and set out the levels  of 
insurance Mrs S had arranged and asked her to check the chosen cover  including the 
sums insured  and policy limits  met her requirements. It also noted that the sums  insured 
would be adjusted  in line with a recognised index unless the bank selected  the sum 
insured. 
The policy schedule set out that personal  items provided a £4,000 sum insured with a 
single item limit  non cycles of £1,500. And a £500 sum insured was also taken for 
both cycles and money/credit cards  which  was the standard  cover offered when personal 
items was taken.
The Statement of Fact told Mrs S to check carefully the information you have  provided,  
which is based on the questions we asked  you. The information you have given us is a 
record of what you told us on 24/02/2016.  It also explained that Mrs S needed to make 
sure the amounts quoted in this document were sufficient to cover the cost of replacing  
each item at todays  prices and to the same quality  and specification. And it invited 
Mrs S to get in touch  immediately if they werent.  The sums assured for each section of 
cover were shown and personal  items  provided a £4,000 sum insured with a single item 
limit non cycles of £1,500 and £500 limit for cycles.
The Key Facts explained the personal items options could be added to the policy and 
covered such items as jewellery and watches  against loss or damage  away  from the 
home. And it could  cover both unspecified  (worth  less than £1,500 each)  and specified 
items (worth more than £1,500 each and which  must be listed individually).
The terms and conditions explained  that unspecified personal items  were any item 
which is not a pedal cycle  and which is not separately described on the schedule. And 
the sum insured was £1,500. Whereas  specified personal items were  any one item 
which is not a pedal cycle  which  is separately described on the schedule with the sum 
insured being  the value specified  on the schedule. Some  other standard cover was also 
included such as £500 sum insured for cycles, money and credit cards.
The renewal packs sent in 2017  and 2018  to Mr and Mrs S advised them to check  their 
cover limits and read the schedule alongside  the policy wording. The schedules also set 
out the personal items sum insured amount but didnt reiterate that the unspecified limit 
was £1,500.
Its not unusual  for unspecified items  to carry a single item limit and for there also to be an 
option to include  specified items and insure  them  for a higher amount, akin to their actual 
replacement value. Given what  the bank says about  the way it sold insurance policies I think  
its more likely than not the sales adviser wouldve worked through  the quote system  and 
wouldve probably asked  whether Mrs S wanted  to specify particular items in order  to protect  
them for more than £1,500.  
If Mrs S had mentioned Mr Ss watch in particular and said it was worth considerably more 
than £1,500 (she has said its worth  £7,500) then I cant see why the sales adviser wouldnt 
have explained  that it would need  to be a specified item if Mrs S wanted to insure  it for its full 
value. Yet Mrs S chose  to take a total of £4,000  cover only for unspecified items. That might 
be because she thought it was unlikely the watch would be lost or stolen.  And I say that 
Ref: DRN72421223because shes said herself that she knew, and accepted,  that the £4,000 cover (or the 
marginally higher,  index-linked amount in the following years) wouldnt have been enough to 
buy a replacement watch. And she said too that the £4,000 was also meant to cover some of 
her own rings. So she seems to accept that she was already  taking  the risk of being  
considerably underinsured.
I think, on balance,  its more likely than not the documents sent to Mrs S reflected the 
discussions that took place. And I think they set out in a sufficiently clear way what cover  
had been selected including that no personal  items had been  specified, and any unspecified 
items were limited  to a maximum £1,500 cover per item. 
Mrs S says the terms and conditions were received separate to the original welcome pack  
and policy  schedule. I can see the Statement of Fact says the policy was discussed  on 
24 February 2016 and the Welcome Pack was dated the next day and reference  the policy 
wording. Even if policy wording (the terms and conditions) werent enclosed I still think  the 
other documents give enough information  to put Mrs S on notice that there  were  limits that 
would apply to the person items section of cover. And I dont think its unreasonable to have 
expected her to check the cover suited her needs  (and reflected her conversation with the 
bank) once  the terms and conditions arrived. 
Overall, on balance, I dont think Yorkshire  Bank mis-sold this policy  to Mrs S. So it wouldnt 
be fair to tell it either to refund any premiums or make a contribution towards replacing 
Mr Ss watch.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7242122