K821x#15complaint
Mr Ns estate complains that Canada Life Limited  set up an annuity for Mr N when what he 
wanted was to receive the pension in four quarterly  lump sums. They say that Mr N was very 
confused by the options available to him, that he was not financially savvy   and, that 
Canada Life took advantage of that, putting him into an option  that benefited it and not him.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in full in my provisional decision of 
27 December 2018, this is attached and forms part of this decision. Within that decision I 
explained why I thought  the complaint should be upheld. I said that I would consider 
anything that either  party  wanted  to add. 
Mr Ns estate accepted  the decision. Canada Life responded saying that: 
The policy that Mr N held did not have a drawdown facility; so
In order to draw his pension in four lump  sums  Mr N would have had to transfer to a 
suitable drawdown product with Canada Life or another  provider;  and 
In order to do so Mr N would have needed  to take professional financial advice; 
Despite being  encouraged to seek professional  advice on a number  of occasions 
Mr N chose not to do so. 
The investigator responded on my behalf  explaining  why I remained of the view that the 
conclusions I reached and the redress I set out in my provisional decision were  fair. 
Canada Life did not make any further submissions. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this case has been passed back to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
My findings  remain as set out in my provisional  decision  which  is attached and forms part of 
this decision. I have considered Canada Lifes additional submission but for the reasons 
relayed to Canada  Life I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional  findings or award  
I have reiterated  these below.
 
I understand that Mr N would have had to move  to a different product  to go into flexible 
drawdown. 
I have no way of knowing  with absolute certainty  what Mr N would have done if Canada Life 
had taken additional steps to ensure  that Mr N was asked questions  and given appropriate  
risk warnings verbally. Gone through  the quotation in detail to ensure he understood what  
Ref: DRN77143382the terms he was accepting were  including, details of the income he would receive and the 
fact that no lump sums  (after tax free cash)  could be taken, as I found  it ought to have done. 
So, I have had to reach my findings  based  on what I think Mr N is most likely to have  done  
taking into account  all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
I am satisfied that it is unlikely that Mr N would have purchased  an annuity. It is possible that 
he would  have sought advice if he realised that that was the only way that he could  take the 
benefits in the way he wanted. It is also possible that he would have looked for a route that 
would not require advice e.g. taking the fund as a lump sum or by finding  a provider that 
would accept flexi-drawdown applications on an execution-only basis  (as far as I can see 
based on the paperwork and call recordings the policy did not have safeguarded benefits,  so 
I think that this may have  been possible).
Ultimately, I think  that the redress set out in my provisional decision is fair under the 
circumstances.
Within this decision I have  focused on addressing the points raised  by Canada Life in 
response to my provisional  decision. My findings in respect of the wider  complaint remain as 
set out in my provisional decision this  as mentioned above   is attached and forms part of 
this decision. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding compensation is to put the complainant as closely as possible into 
position they would have  been in had Canada Life done what  I have found it ought to have 
done. Due to the circumstances of this complaint it is difficult to exactly replicate what would  
have happened.
On balance, in light of the above, I think that it is most likely  that Mr N would have taken tax 
free cash  and then left the remaining fund invested to draw  as an income   most likely 
quarterly.
Taking everything into account,  I think a fair way of putting things right would be for 
Canada Life to pay to Mr Ns estate  the balance of his pension fund  as at the point he took 
benefits  less what he received in tax free cash and annuity payments. The outstanding 
amount should  be reduced by Mr Ns then marginal tax rate to reflect the fact that any 
amount drawn  as income  would  have  been subject to income tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ns estates complaint and direct Canada  Life 
Limited to pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Ns estate to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77143383COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr Ns estate complain that Canada Life Limited  set up an annuity for Mr N when what he wanted was 
to receive the pension in four quarterly lump sums. They say that Mr N was very confused by the 
options available  to him, that he was not financially savvy  and, that Canada Life took advantage of 
that, putting  him into an option that benefited it and not him.
background
Within his retirement pack Mr N was informed  that the following options were available to him:
Ref: DRN77143384Delay  taking it until a later date if you dont need it yet.
Use it to provide a flexible retirement income  at intervals and amounts to suit you. You are 
entitled to 25% of the pension pots value  tax-free.  The remaining income is taxable.
Use it to buy a guaranteed income for life. The income is taxable, but you can choose to 
take up to 25% of your pot as a one-off tax-free lump sum at the outset.
Take it all as cash in one go  the first 25% will be tax-free and the rest will taxed. (If your 
life expectancy is less than 12 months you may qualify to have  all the cash tax-free.)
Take it as smaller cash sums in stages  the first 25% of each cash withdrawal will be tax-
free. The rest will be taxed.
Combine any of the above  options.
Mr N took benefits from his pension plan in 2015, after a number of conversations with
Canada Life; Mr N accepted a quotation  for tax free cash and a quarterly annuity.  This was 
subsequently set up by Canada Life. I have set out broadly what was discussed  during the phone 
calls based on the recordings that Canada Life provided.
The calls:
16 October 2015 
Mr N calls in and once he has explained  his query he gets passed through to the pension benefits  
department. He explains he sent a letter saying that he wanted to take all of his money in one go and 
that he had completed an application form but has received a response saying to contact them  six 
months later.  Canada Lifes representative explains that the letter  is referring  to what will happen  if he 
doesnt contact them within  six months and tells him to disregard it.
She goes  on to say that he needs to submit the application form sent to him on 29 September 2015  
he says he hasnt  signed  anything yet but that he did send the application in. But the representative 
says nothing had been received. Mr N says he believes he has a letter  indicating that Canada Life 
had received the letter  that he sent.
There seems  to be a lot of confusion  around what has been sent. Canada  Life had received the 
money laundering  paperwork but not the application form. Mr N thinks he sent everything but is not 
sure  the call recording is then cut off.
19 October 2015 
Mr N calls in asking for a claim  form. The representative  asks how he wants  to take his pension e.g. 
as a lump sum. He says he is thinking about taking it in quarters, but is not sure. He says he will need  
to speak to someone  once  he has the form. The representative  explains that the form that is sent 
depends on how he wants to take benefits. Mr N says that he initially  intended to take it as a lump 
sum but is now thinking about taking it in quarters, he then asks if this would be every three months.
The representative says she is going to pass him on to the appropriate department.
Whilst referring the call, in a discussion with the second representative,  the first representative says 
that Mr N would like to discuss drawdown  saying he says he wants  to take his pension  in quarters.
The call goes  through  to the second representative 
Again he says that he would like Canada Life to send  him a form and that he would like to take his 
pension quarterly.  He then hesitates and says as he understands it there are different forms 
depending on whether he wants to take it all as a lump  sum or quarterly.
The representative says she can see that Mr N called up earlier in the week to take his pension as a 
lump sum and asks if he wants to take it as a lump sum. He says that or quarterly, he is not sure. He 
Ref: DRN77143385asks again if quarterly is every  three months?  Then says again that he is not sure how to take his 
pension or which way is best.
The representative then asks if he has had a look at the Pension  Wise  website. Mr N says he has 
been through  all that but he wants a legal adviser. She asks if he has spoken to an adviser. He says 
no and that thats why he wants the form.
She says that her notes  say that he is to be sent a form to take it as a lump  sum, and asks if he would  
now also like to get a quote for an annuity which he could take quarterly. He again  says he is not 
sure.
The representative goes  on to explain that she can send paperwork for a quarterly income which  is 
called an annuity.  This means he takes  a fixed sum as a quarterly payment. He asks again if that is 
every three  months. She says yes, if thats how he wants to take it.
The representative then asks Mr N questions about the basis for the annuity, Mr N confirms  it should 
be on a single  life. She asks if it should be level or escalating, he says just every  three months  as it is 
now. She records this as level.
Mr N then mentions  a bank statement and other documents he sent Canada Life and asks if he needs 
to send these again. The representative confirms that these would  need to be provided before he can 
take benefits.  He says that these should be on record. She confirms that these are on file and wont 
need to be resent.
27 October 2015 
The recording  starts  with one representative putting the call through  to another representative  the 
first representative tells the second representative that she thinks Mr N wants  an annuity as he keeps 
talking about wanting  to be paid quarterly.
Once Mr N gets put through to the second representative  he asks if he has to take his pension as a 
lump sum or if it is possible  to take it quarterly  every three months.
He says he has been  sent a quotation for taking his benefits as a lump sum.  The representative says 
that Mr N has been sent a quotation for taking his pension as a quarterly annuity.  The representative  
asks if Mr N has received  it, he says he thinks so and asks if it is a big form.
The representative explains that it would be a form along with a quotation that would give him an idea 
of what  he would get if he took his benefits on a quarterly  basis.
He says he doesnt remember and she asks if he sent it back.  He says he doesnt know.
She goes  onto confirm what he should have received. He seems confused. She says it was done on 
a single  life basis.
He asks if single life is the one he has to fill in then. She says that that option would  have come with 
an application form to fill out if that is what he would like to do. He says he thinks that that is what  he 
would like to do. The representative explains that he will need to complete  the application  form and 
send it back. He says that Canada Life should have some details already.  The representative 
confirms that Canada  Life had his identity verification  details  but that it did still need him to fill out the 
form  she then offers  to go through the form with him. He says he isnt sure which one it is. She goes 
to get a form.
The representative describes what the application form looks like. Mr N struggles to find it.
She continues  to describe it and explains  that that is the one he will need  to fill out. He appears to find 
it and asks if he will need  to fill all of it out. She says only the bit about  him as the first annuitant.  He 
Ref: DRN77143386finds it and she asks if he wants help to fill it in. He says that he cant as he will need to use a spy 
glass to see. He says he will try to do it himself.
The representative then explains which pages to fill out.
He thanks her for her help and appears to understand what he needs to do next.
3 November 2015 
Mr N calls in and says he received a letter from Canada  Life and asks if it received  one from him on 
28 October 2018  he says he doesnt think he filled in his form properly. Mr N says he has received a 
letter from Canada  Life saying he needs to provide proof of date of birth and says he had already 
submitted that.
He also says he is being  asked to complete the basis for the annuity but doesnt understand what that 
is.
The representative refers him on to the pension  helpline. Whilst transferring  the call she says to the 
second representative that she has the policyholder on the line and that it is quite difficult to 
understand him but that she thinks he wants to take benefits. His age verification has failed and he is 
also questioning the actual forms and what he is taking in terms of benefits.
Conversation with the second representative 
The representative confirms  that Mr N needs  to send proof of age and stipulate the basis on which he 
wants the annuity.  He says he doesnt  understand.
She says that he has applied for an annuity which  means taking  25% tax free cash  and the rest as an 
income. He asks if that means quarterly. She says that is what  basis means, he needs to tell them 
how he would like it. He says yes, quarterly.  He again asks if that means every three months.
The representative says he should have a quotation with a reference number. He asks if that is on the 
letter that they sent back. She says no, it would be on previous correspondence. She describes the 
quotation  and gives him the option which corresponds with single life, level annuity paid on a 
quarterly basis. He asks if he needs to fill that one in. She says she can take confirmation over the 
phone. Mr N confirms the option and he says itll have to be that one.
She says all he will need  to do now is provide some form of identification. They then go on to discuss  
what will suffice as proof of age as he doesnt have a passport. They agree that he will send in his 
birth certificate and the call comes to an end.
Initially Mr N received tax free cash, then confirmation that the annuity had been set up. Just after the 
first annuity  payment had been  received  Canada Life received an email from Mr Ns brother, this said:
Please can you help, regarding [Mr Ns full name], [the policy number  of Mr Ns pension], he 
asked for a lump  sum to be taken in 4 quality  [sic] payments which  the government  has 
stated, he does not want  £383.81, annuity can you help us your kind regards [Mr Ns brothers 
name], brother, you can ring me on, [landline number] or [mobile number] thank  you.
Canada Life responded to Mr N directly saying that:
We received an email from your brother, [Mr Ns brothers name],  requesting for a lump  sum 
from your annuity on your behalf. Im afraid it is not possible to take a lump  sum or cash  in 
your annuity  policy as we are contracted to pay a regular income for the rest of your life.
In the March 2015  budget, the government said they want to change  the tax rules from April 
2016 to allow people to sell their annuity income  to a third party  subject to agreement  from 
Ref: DRN77143387their annuity  provider.  This has now been postponed to April  2017. The government has 
published a consultation  about how it could work, however nothing has been confirmed or 
implemented to date.
The original annuity provider will not be able to buy the income from an existing  annuity 
customer.
If the legislation is agreed, the annuitant will need to find a third party willing to buy the 
income. Annuities will not be able to be surrendered; the annuity will still exist and the 
annuitant will still have  a legally binding  contract with the annuity provider.
Mr N does not appear to have responded to this. On 28th of December 2016 Mr N sadly passed 
away.
Later Mr Ns estate complained about the set-up of the annuity. Canada Life did not uphold the 
complaint, in summary it said:
Mr N originally enquired  about taking  his pension as a lump sum;
He was given details of how to go about this and information about the implications and risks 
of taking this route;
Mr N then called again on 16 October 2015 asking for an application form to take his pension 
as a lump sum,  Canada Life sent that to him on 19 October  2015;
On 19 October 2015, Mr N called  to ask for a quote for a single life quarterly annuity,
Canada Life sent this to him on 20 October 2015, along  with key information about the 
product and the risks involved with taking out an annuity;
Mr N subsequently called  in to accept  the quotation.  The annuity was set up in line with the 
quotation he accepted.
Throughout this process Mr N was told about the options available to him and was directed to 
places where he could get more  information.
Unhappy with this response Mr Ns estate referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld.  Whilst  
she acknowledged that Mr N was confused about the choice he made   and that it was possible  that 
he thought he had opted to draw his pension in quarters  she did not think  this was possible. She 
also didnt think that Canada Life had done  anything  wrong.
She said that Mr Ns brothers email  supported the fact that he had been confused about  the benefits 
he would receive and that Canada Lifes letter did not really deal with the issue raised  but, she didnt 
there was any way to redress the situation  now.
Mr Ns estate disagreed; because agreement could not be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
I have listened to all of the call recordings Canada Life provided.  It is clear to me that Mr N was 
confused by the process and did not have  a good understanding of the options available to him. 
Canada Life was acting  solely as Mr Ns provider.  It was not advising him. As part of this it was 
required to provide  clear, fair and not misleading  information.
Ref: DRN77143388When dealing with Mr N, Canada Life had to treat him fairly and act in his best interests.  
Canada Life also had to ask Mr N questions about his circumstances and give appropriate risk 
warnings. Based on what I have seen, Canada  Life seems to have aimed to fulfil this obligation in 
writing by providing a list of questions and answers along with the paperwork it provided, such  as the 
quotations. The questions  and answers  were aligned  to the option discussed within  the paperwork.
Taking everything into account, in particular the calls mentioned above,  I think  it is likely that Mr N 
would not have read and fully understood the implications  and features  of the various options 
available to him. I am also satisfied that Canada  Life ought reasonably to have  known that there was, 
at least,  a significant  risk that he would  not have read and understood all of the paperwork provided to 
him  and so, that by only providing this information  in writing to Mr N, it was not properly fulfilling its 
obligations in terms of the risk warnings it was required  to provide.
If not from the outset, I certainly think that this ought to have been clear to Canada  Life from the point 
of the phone  call during  which it was obvious that Mr N was having  trouble  identifying the different 
documents that had been sent to him. Canada  Life offered to help him complete the application form 
 to which  he responded  that he could not do it as he would need his spy glass to do that. Because 
of this, Canada Life just told Mr N which sections to complete.
Fairly and reasonably,  in this particular instance, I think Canada Life should  have taken  additional  
steps to ensure that Mr N was asked questions and given appropriate risk warnings  verbally. I also 
think that, under the circumstances, it ought to have  gone  through the quotation in detail to ensure he 
understood what the terms he was accepting  were.  Any such explanation  ought to have included, 
details of the income  he would receive and the fact that no lump sums  (after tax free cash) could  be 
taken.
As it stands,  I think  there was a significant risk that Mr N did not understand the option he was 
accepting or the other options that may have been available to him  for example,  enhanced annuities 
or the open market option.
Having concluded  that Canada Life ought to have  done more, I have thought  about what  if anything  
 Mr N would have  done  differently if Canada  Life had done what I have found it ought to have done.
It is clear that Mr N was considering either taking his pension as a lump sum or in quarterly payments. 
Based on the phone  calls alone it is difficult to be certain what  Mr N meant by quarterly payments  but 
I think  that Mr Ns brothers  email strongly supports  the fact that Mr N did in fact want  to take his 
pension in four quarterly lump sum payments. So, in this instance,  I think  it is reasonable to conclude 
that, if Canada Life had done what I have found it ought to have done, Mr N would have taken steps 
to take his pension in this manner.
fair compensation
My aim in awarding  compensation is to put the complainant as closely as possible into position  they 
would have been in had Canada Life done what I have found it ought  to have done. Due to the 
circumstances of this complaint it is difficult to exactly replicate what would have happened.
On balance, in light of the above, I think that it is most  likely that Mr N would  have taken  tax free cash  
and then left the remaining fund invested to draw as an income  most  likely quarterly.
Taking everything into account, I think a fair way of putting things right would be for Canada Life to 
pay to Mr Ns estate the balance of his pension  fund  as at the point he took benefits   less what  he 
received in tax free cash and annuity  payments.  The outstanding amount should be reduced by Mr 
Ns then marginal tax rate to reflect the fact that any amount drawn as income would have been 
subject to income tax.
Ref: DRN77143389my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold the complaint and direct Canada Life
Limited to pay redress as set out above.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add as long as I receive it by 10 January  2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7714338