K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Chartergroup Financial Management Ltd (CFM) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his pension  to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  scheme  (SIPP)  and then 
invest in Carbon Credits.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 September 2019. A copy is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold the 
complaint and award redress.
Mr Ts representative  confirmed it had nothing further to add. I have not received any further  
submissions from CFM.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind that I have not received any further  submissions, my decision remains  as 
set out in the attached  provisional decision.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Chartergroup Financial Management Ltd to calculate and 
pay redress as set out under fair compensation in the attached  provisional  decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72833522copy provisional decision  
complaint
Mr T complains that Chartergroup Financial  Management Ltd (CFM)  gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his pension to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension scheme (SIPP) and then invest in Carbon 
Credits.
background
Mr T was member of a final salary (defined benefit) Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).  In 2013,  
after discussing the matter with CFM,  he transferred the value of his final salary benefits to a SIPP  so 
he could invest in Carbon Credits.
CFM did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that: 
It had advised Mr T not to transfer his pension  and he sent a letter to it insisting on the 
transfer despite its advice. 
It did not employ a marketing company to contact him and has never  promoted unregulated 
investments to unsophisticated investors. It therefore did not have a requirement  to determine 
if he was sophisticated or a high net worth investor. 
Its fee agreement confirms Mr T had researched  Carbon Credits. It said this confirmed that it 
would not be advising on the suitability  of the investments and that its advice would be limited 
to the suitability of transferring the pension. It said it did highlight  the risks of carbon  credits 
and ensure they were  in line with his attitude  to risk. 
Its advice  was provided on a limited  basis and Mr T was offered a full financial review  but 
declined. 
Mr T stated on the risk questionnaire that he was an experienced investor  with a medium  to 
high attitude to risk and that the investment represented less than 25% of his overall wealth. 
Its permissions do not allow it to recommend  Carbon Credits and they were purchased by the 
SIPP. 
It relied on the information given  to it by Mr T which showed he was an experienced investor. 
It acted  with honesty  and integrity. 
Mr T may have been offered a lump sum for making the investment by the business that sold 
the Carbon Credits.
Mr T referred  his complaint to this service  and it was considered by an adjudicator.  He believed the 
complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator said that CFM should have taken into account  the 
suitability of the investment  for Mr T when giving the advice about  the SIPP   as the two were clearly 
connected.  He believed that CFM  did not gather enough information about  Mr T to advise him 
properly. 
CFM did not agree with the adjudicators assessment. In brief it said:
It telephoned  Mr T to complete a risk questionnaire  and to make sure he understood the risk 
involved in investing. Mr T completed this form and returned it.
It advised  Mr T that it would be unlikely to recommend the transfer of his pension and why. It 
also confirmed again the risks of investing and that his pension could be worth nothing in 
future.
Ref: DRN72833523It sent a report to Mr T which confirmed  it would  not be in his best interests to transfer. It also 
telephoned him to confirm its view that the transfer was not in Mr Ts best interest but he said 
he wanted to process against this advice, as the pension  did not mean much to him anyway. 
CFM said that it told Mr T he would  need to write to it insisting the transfer take place. Mr T 
asked if it could send a letter to him to this effect.
It sent a suitability  report to Mr T confirming  the reasons why it did not recommend  the 
transfer. 
Mr Ts motivation for the transfer and investment  was to obtain tax free cash. It said that Mr T 
might have been involved in incorrectly  accessing money from his pension  (as he was only 49 
at the time). 
The adjudicator reviewed the complaint but was not persuaded  to alter his view. He said he had not 
been supplied with any records of the telephone conversations CFM said it had with Mr T. So it was 
difficult to know what the content of any discussions were. He did not feel that the suitability  letter  
went into enough detail.  
CFM replied and said that the information previously supplied about conversations  with Mr T was 
based on handwritten notes taken at the time. It said Mr T could  have followed its advice on a number 
of occasions and not transferred.  But he was set on transferring. It requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
CFM has said that it did not give advice on the investment and also that advised  against the transfer 
to the SIPP. Mr T dealt  with an adviser at CFM who I shall call Mr H.
the scope of the advice
CFM has said that it was not providing  advice on the investment, only the SIPP  but it did know the 
intention was to invest into Carbon Credits.  It clearly acknowledged that in its report of 12 February  
2013, going so far as to comment  on the nature of this investment at some length. However  CFM has 
said that it did not have to consider the suitability of the investment itself.  
CFM had a duty under the relevant rules,  in particular  COBS 2 and COBS 9, set out previously by the 
FSA and now Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), to act in Mr Ts best interests,  know its client and 
give suitable  advice. In my view it could  not so without taking account  of the investment which the 
SIPP was put into place to facilitate. The only reason  for the creation of the SIPP and the transfer was 
to enable the Carbon Credit  investment  the CFM adviser clearly knew this. 
CFM set out in its Fee Agreement Company Pension  form that it was proceeding on the basis that 
Mr T has assessed  the suitability of Carbon Credits for himself. But it also set out that Mr T had been 
introduced to it by Carbon  Advice Group  which I understand  was an unregulated business. 
Im also mindful  that in January 2013, the FSA issued an alert:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we have seen 
advisers moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often illiquid unregulated investments (some which  may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Ref: DRN72833524The cases we have seen  tend to operate under a similar  advice model. An introducer will pass  
customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. an overseas  
property development). When the customer expresses an interest in the unregulated investment,  the 
customer is introduced  to a regulated financial adviser  to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding 
the unregulated investment. The financial adviser  does  not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing  advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated  
investment. Sometimes  the regulated financial adviser  also assists the customer  to unlock  monies 
held in other investments so that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer  out of a 
current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property  investment under  a 
SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice about  
whether the customer  should transfer into the SIPP.  If, taking into account the individual 
circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  its underlying  holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice  and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot  separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms, in particular  financial adviser and SIPP Operators  to report  those 
FSA firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of the FSA requirements
This alert was issued before CFM undertook the transfer and it should have  been aware  of it. 
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator as to the type of process CFM 
carried out to facilitate  the investment. I take an independent view based on the circumstances  of the 
complaint and take into account the rules,  law and good practice in place at the time to arrive at 
decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But my view is consistent with general  
comments from the regulator  about this type of process  that consideration should be given when 
advice is given to transfer a SIPP, to the suitability  of the overall proposition   both SIPP  and 
investment to be taken out. 
Although the regulators comments were specifically  about overseas unregulated property,  its 
statements do refer directly  to the situation here  where advice is being given about  a SIPP to invest  
in an unregulated high risk investment. It said that where an adviser recommends a SIPP  knowing 
that the customer will sell current investments to fund unregulated investments then the suitability of 
that investment must  be taken  into account.  
So my view is that CFM  did have to take into account and advise on the specific suitability of the 
investment as well as the overall  arrangement of SIPP  and investment.
the suitability of the pension transfer and investment
CFM obtained very little detail about Mr Ts circumstances or background. The information it had 
amounted to his occupation, date of birth and existing pension arrangements. There is no information 
about income, outgoings,  investments or savings (apart from what  it thought  were the types of 
investment Mr T had invested in) or assets.  An Attitude  to risk profile is recorded as Moderately  
Adventurous which seems  to be derived  from the results of a risk questionnaire.   
Mr T has confirmed that his occupation was a concrete finisher and then bakery operative when the 
transfer took place. He has confirmed that he did not have  any other investments such as ISAs,  
shares or unit trusts or any experience of high risk or unregulated investments. He also did not have 
any savings. He does not know why it was recorded he had any investments  because  he didnt. Given 
Mr Ts background and the lack of any actual evidence  he had any such investments, I believe his 
version of the events the more likely.   
Ref: DRN72833525So Mr T didnt have  any investments of an adventurous  or high risk nature. In fact it seems he had 
no experience  of risk based investments at all.
Mr T has described the circumstances  leading  up to the pension transfer and investment. He says he 
was cold called about his pension although he cannot  remember which business  did this. But he 
says that he dealt with Mr H throughout and he dealt with the pension transfer. Mr Ts representative 
says he was advised that this route  would  make him more money for retirement  and that Mr H says 
the adviser, was very persuasive and very up for the client investing. 
He says he was advised  by phone to sign where highlighted on paperwork.  He says he didnt 
understand the process or what everything meant.  Mr  T says he never said to the adviser that he 
could lose 100%  of this money  he could not afford to lose any of it and he wasnt supposed to.
The Carbon Credit  investment was an unregulated  speculative investment. It was high risk and the 
investor faced  the real possibility  of losing  all their money. Because  it was unregulated Mr T did not 
benefit from the protection afforded by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
Mr Ts circumstances  do not indicate that he was prepared to lose all his money in the pension 
scheme or that he could do so. They also do not indicate that he was suited to the risks this 
investment presented. 
The risk grading itself is very much out of line with Mr Rs circumstances and experience. But CFM 
accepted it without  question, or having  any other detail about his background  or experience of 
investing. I have not seen evidence  of the content  of any discussion that may have taken place to 
confirm that this was accurate. It should be noted that Mr T has subsequently said his attitude to risk 
was low.
In any event it this risk grading is one part of an assessment of suitability and does  not necessarily  
mean that an investment in Carbon Credits  was suitable for Mr T.
I am persuaded that Mr Ts investment experience was very limited and does  not suggest  that he was 
an experienced  investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing  or would not be 
reliant on CFM to give him suitable advice  or consider  his best interests. 
The value of Mr Ts pension funds was modest at about £37,000.  The material  issue is that the 
majority of that money was designated for investing in Carbon Credits. That put most of his pension 
savings at risk of total loss (which is what happened). 
As discussed CFM  knew  that Mr T was intending  to invest his pension funds  in Carbon Credits. It 
obtained very little detail about Mr T or his financial situation. 
In my view CFM did not meet its requirements  under  COBS 9 to take reasonable steps to ensure  
suitability or obtain enough  information so as to advise Mr T appropriately. As previously discussed, 
that would include  taking into account  what investment the transfer  was facilitating. It could  not in my 
view have  assessed whether  this investment  and the overall arrangement of SIPP and investment 
was suitable for Mr T given the lack of information it had. It should not have agreed to carry out the 
arrangement of the SIPP  in this situation. If it had carried out appropriate fact finding and assessment 
of Mr Ts situation and the Carbon Credit  investment then it would have  known this investment  was 
not suitable for him. Especially as Mr T was investing the majority of his pension benefits.  
       
Clearly, the evidence indicates that Mr T was not the more  sophisticated and professional type of 
investor for which Carbon  Credits would be suitable; the risks of the investment are far higher  than 
were suitable  for him and they were of a nature that was not appropriate for him.  
In transferring Mr T would  lose the significant guarantees and benefits provided by his existing 
defined benefit pension and would be entirely  dependent on the fortunes of the Carbon Credit 
investment. This was situation where  Mr T was exchanging guaranteed income and lump sums  in 
Ref: DRN72833526future for a position  where he could  lose the majority of his pension benefits.  It is difficult  to envisage 
how this could  be appropriate  apart from for the highest risk and sophisticated  investors.  
Bearing all this background  in mind, I do not believe there is any persuasive evidence  that it was 
appropriate for Mr T to take the risks of transferring, which put his retirement  income and benefits  at 
great risk. His circumstances suggest that it was not suitable to take these risks with so large of 
proportion of his pension benefits.  He seemingly had no experience of investments and no history of 
taking the kind of risks this transfer  presented.  
Therefore I believe the transfer and investment was clearly unsuitable.  
insistent client
However, CFM  said it did advise against the transfer. It treated Mr T as an insistent client  and told Mr 
T that it wasnt recommending he transfer.  The adviser  said that the transfer was not recommended, 
in his report of 12 February 2013, primarily because  of the return  rate required to match the pension 
benefits given up if the transfer took place.  
Mr T says he scanned  the paperwork he was given and signed where directed. 
I do not believe it likely  given Mr Ts background that he was proceeding based on a full knowledge  of 
the ramifications of the transfer in terms of the pension  transfer and investment. I am persuaded that 
he was merely following  what  steps  had been explained to him to make the investment  which  he 
says had been recommended to him as a way to increase his pension. I dont believe  given his 
inexperience that he understood the ramifications of agreeing  to proceed in this way. I believe he 
likely was an unsophisticated investor. 
I also do not believe it is likely that Mr T with his background insisted on investing  in Carbon Credits.  
This is a sophisticated investment which it is more likely, as Mr T says, was advised  to him. I believe  it 
so much more likely he was positively  advised to invest. 
Whilst it is possible  that Mr T did appreciate that the transfer was not advised and was aware of all the 
risks of investing in Carbon  Credits, I do not believe this likely. He is not the kind of individual that 
would have the necessary  knowledge and financial sophistication to do that. CFM did advise against 
the transfer but it did not, discuss fully the advisability of losing the varied valuable  occupational 
benefits he held. 
So I believe  both the transfer  and investment were entirely unsuitable and CFM should not have 
facilitated them. 
There is a separate issue about Mr T obtaining  tax free cash  as a consequence of the transfer. As 
my understanding is that Mr T was 49 at the time, drawing tax free cash  from a pension such as the 
SIPP would not have been permitted. Mr T says he was supplied with £6,700 by the adviser.  Its 
unclear how this was supplied. But I dont believe that Mr T was aware  that this might be suspect  he 
did not likely have any knowledge of pension  regulation.  But I do believe this sum should be taken  
into account  and I will consider this later in this decision. 
in any event  should CFM  have proceeded with the transfer and investment?
There are overarching  reasons why in my view CFM should not have proceeded with this transaction  
at all or on an insistent client basis. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances,  I am required to take into account  
relevant: law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of practice. I am 
also required  to take into account, where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
Ref: DRN72833527I consider that the FCAs Principles  2 and 6 and COBS 2 of the FCA (then FSA) Handbook are of 
particular relevance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
COBS 2.1.1R 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of its client 
(the client's best interests rule).
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general  statement of 
the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system  (PRIN  1.1.2G). Principles  2 and 6 
say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The Principles have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when  deciding what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
CFM should have  been  aware that Mr T was not an experienced or wealthy investor who was 
accustomed to entering into this type of transaction. It was aware of the nature of the pension  benefits 
he was giving  up and that the intention was to invest in Carbon  Credits. But it did not interrogate  Mr 
Ts background and understanding and in my view its fact finding  fell far short of what would be 
reasonable in the circumstances to carry out the transaction. 
It seems to me that CFM was aware that Mr T had been  introduced to it by an unregulated business 
(as this is set out it its fee agreement) and there was no reason why it should have assumed  that he 
had got adequate advice  from suitably  qualified and regulated business  and the suitability  of the 
Carbon Credit investment. 
With that in mind, I do not believe that CFM  met its obligations under  the principles to simply arrange 
the transfer of pension benefits  and administer the investment on an insistent  client basis. It should 
have been aware that there were very extensive risks inherent  in this which Mr T was likely not aware 
of. To simply process the transaction aware  of this information and where  there were likely risks that 
Mr T did not have the wherewithal to likely appreciate all the risks himself was not acting in its 
customers best interest. I do not believe it could ignore these risks and carry  out the transaction  on 
an insistent  client basis. 
It should have either declined to carry out the transection or provided further guidance or advice on 
the overall arrangement of transfer, SIPP and investment.  I do not believe it acted with due care or in 
Mr Ts interests in accordance with COBS 2 or Principles 2 and 6. 
did CFM cause Mr Ts loss
As discussed CFM  should  not have facilitated the transfer  and but for its actions I do not believe  that 
Mr T would have transferred and then invested  in Carbon Credits. 
So neither the SIPP nor the investment would have taken place  but for CFMs actions. Consequently 
any loss Mr T has suffered  through transferring  to the SIPP and investing  in Carbon Credits has been  
caused materially by CFM.
In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. I am satisfied that Mr T would  not have transferred or made the investment 
had it not been for the failings of CFM. Had CFM  acted  correctly in respect  of Mr T, the investment 
Ref: DRN72833528would not have been made. As a direct result of the CFM failings, Mr T invested his pension into a 
specialised, unregulated investment with a limited track record.   
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold CFM responsible for the whole of the loss suffered  by Mr 
T. I am not asking CFM to account for loss that goes  beyond the consequences of its failings. I am 
satisfied those  failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr T as close 
to the position he would probably now be in but for the actions  of CFM.
I think  if CFM had acted appropriately then Mr T would have  kept his existing pension. The reason for 
the creation of the SIPP  was investing in Carbon  Credits and if that had not gone ahead there would 
have been no reason  to transfer to the SIPP. So most likely  Mr T would have simply  retained his 
original pension.  
So CFM should undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.  
CFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ts contribution 
history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should  then 
be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account the impact of 
leaving the occupational  scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P entitlement.  
The £6,700 Mr T received  can be deducted from any loss amount so calculated.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mr Ts 
pension plan.  The payment  should allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction  to allow for income  tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed  
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
Had CFM  acted appropriately I dont think there would be a SIPP. I am not aware  if the SIPP can 
currently be closed (the Carbon Credit investment could  prevent this unless it no longer exists). Mr Ts 
representative should  confirm whether it can be closed. If not, then its not fair that Mr T continues  to 
pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
In this situation,  ideally, CFM  should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is 
the fairest  way of putting Mr T back in the position he would have been in. 
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, if the SIPP  cant be closed, then I think  its fair that CFM pays  Mr 
T an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated  using the previous 
years fees),  or undertakes  to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should  
provide a reasonable  period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
Ref: DRN72833529In return  for the compensation  set out above, CFM may ask Mr T to provide  an undertaking to give it 
the net amount  of any payment he may receive from the Carbon Credit investment in that five year 
period, as well as any other payment he may receive  from any party as a result of the investment. 
That undertaking should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges  on the amount he may receive.  
CFM will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr T to provide an 
undertaking, payment  of the compensation awarded  by this decision may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, CFM wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any future 
payments under the Carbon Credit investment, it must agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees. If 
CFM fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr T should then have the option of trying to cancel the Carbon  Credit 
contract to enable the SIPP  to be closed.
In addition, CFM is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment  from Mr T of any claim he may have 
against any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and Carbon  Credit investment. If CFM 
chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment of compensation  is 
made. CFM must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr T for his consideration and agreement. 
The compensation  resulting  from this loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 
days of the date CFM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest 
must be added to the compensation  amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CFM to pay Mr 
T this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint and intend to order  CFM to pay fair compensation as detailed  above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7283352