K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc have taken away his ability to make payments to his 
credit card account online. To put things right he wants  them to pay him compensation, and 
remove any negative markers  from his credit file.
background
Mr S complains that Santander have stopped him from being able to make  payments to his 
credit card account using  online banking. Hes explained that this is the only way he is able 
to make payments  due to his disability. So he feels Santander have acted  unreasonably.
Santander said that Mr Ss account was no longer showing on his online banking facility  
because a block had been applied to by their Collections team in November 2017. They said 
this was done because Mr S hadnt  made any payments to the account, and the balance 
was overdue.  Santander told Mr S that they felt hed shown he was able to maintain 
telephone communications. And they said he could make payments to the account  over the 
telephone. 
Mr S didnt think this was reasonable, so he brought his complaint to our service.  
Santander told us that as well as having  the option  to make payments over the telephone,  
Mr S could still make payments to the account  using online banking  if he entered the correct 
account number  and sort code. So our adjudicator didnt feel that Santander had done  
anything wrong  here, as Mr S is still able to make payments the way hes told us he wants 
to. 
Our adjudicator also explained that whilst Mr S has told us hes unhappy  Santander continue  
to send him letters and communications in the post after hes asked them not to, our service 
had considered this matter for him before. We looked at it as part of another  complaint he 
raised against Santander. And we didnt  find that Santander had acted unreasonably.  
Mr S wasnt  happy with this response. So the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S will be disappointed,  but I 
agree with the conclusions our adjudicator reached. Ill explain why.
Mr S has complained about the way Santander communicates with him. Hes unhappy they 
send him letters even though hes asked them not to. Hes explained that postal 
communication isnt accessible to him because of his disability.  And it causes him great 
stress and anxiety when  he receives letters. Hes asked Santander  a number of times to only 
communicate with him using email and their online secure messaging service.
Ref: DRN76343942I sympathise with Mr S. I understand he finds it very upsetting that Santander have  been  
sending him post.  Hes told us he feels Santander are being  hostile towards  him, regularly  
sending him communications he cant access. However our service has already considered  
this matter for Mr S in another complaint he raised with us previously. Whilst this complaint 
was made  in relation to a different product Mr S held with Santander, we made  a decision 
about the same communication issue  hes raised  here. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me 
to look at this again,  where another ombudsman here has already done so.
I understand that Santander have continued to send Mr S further letters  and statements in 
the post since this decision  was made. And he feels this evidence supports a new complaint 
on the matter. However we didnt find in our previous decision that it was unreasonable for 
Santander to be sending him post. So Im afraid I dont agree this is a reason for me to look 
into this again.
Mr S has explained hes unhappy with the previous decision  we reached and doesnt feel the 
bank gave us accurate  information about the issue. So I understand he will be disappointed  I 
havent considered this matter. But Ive outlined why this is the case.
However, I have considered what Mr S has told us about the restrictions Santander have put 
on his online banking  account. 
Santander said that Mr Ss credit  card account no longer  shows on his online banking facility  
because a block was applied to it by their Collections team. Theyve  provided  us with 
evidence that this block was automatically  applied on 23 November 2017. And theyve told 
us this happened because Mr S hadnt  made any payments to the account and an 
outstanding balance was due. 
I can see that the terms and conditions for Mr Ss account say that Santander may cancel or 
suspend the account where they reasonably believe that theres an increased  risk the 
consumer wont repay it. And looking at Mr Ss account statements, I can see that when the 
block was applied his account was over its credit limit. And no payments had been made to it 
for over six months. So I think Santander were entitled act as they did here.  And Im satisfied 
that they followed their usual process.
Mr S says that hes unable to make any payments to the account unless he can do so using 
online banking, as other methods arent  accessible to him. Santander confirmed that the 
account wont appear on his online banking facility  whilst this block is in place. But theyve  
also explained that he can still make payments to it using online banking if he enters  the 
account number  and sort code when making  a payment. I can see that instructions on how 
to do this are set out in the How to make  a payment section of the online account 
statements Mr S receives. So whilst  I appreciate  this isnt quite  as convenient as being able 
to use a shortcut to select the account he wishes to make  an online transfer to, Im satisfied 
Mr S can still make  payments  to this account  using his preferred method. And Santander 
have taken reasonable steps to tell him how.
Ref: DRN76343943Mr S has told us that he feels Santander  are in breach of the Equality Act. He says they 
have discriminated against him because they havent made reasonable adjustments to 
accommodate his needs. Were an informal  dispute  resolution service and its not my role to 
determine if there has been  a breach of the Equality Act. That would be for a court to decide. 
I havent seen  anything that suggests  Santander  is unfairly discriminating against Mr S here, 
but in any event, my role is to consider whether Santander have treated Mr S fairly and 
reasonably in the individual circumstances of this case. I appreciate  he hasnt been able to 
use his account  in the exact way he wishes. But as Ive explained,  I havent  seen any 
evidence that makes me think Santander have treated him unfairly in this situation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7634394