K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that as a result  of information  reported by BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited (BMWFS),  to one or more credit reference agencies,  she was unable to secure her 
first choice mortgage.
background
In October  2015 Mrs M entered into a hire purchase  (HP) agreement with BMWFS  for a 
car. The cost of the car was £26,719.
Mrs M made  an advance payment of £13,359.50. This left a balance of £13,359.50  to be 
paid (in the event she elected to keep  the car) in October 2017.
In October  2017 Mrs M elected not to keep the car. This meant the £13,359.50 
October 2017 HP payment  was no longer payable by her.
In November 2017 Mrs M (together with her partner)  applied for a mortgage (in principle) 
with a lender that I will call A. She did this via a broker. A declined  this mortgage 
(in principle)  on the grounds of affordability.
On being declined the mortgage (in principle) with A, Mrs M checked her credit file. This 
showed her HP agreement with BMWFS as still outstanding and with a monthly obligation 
(rather than a single obligation) of £13,360.
Mrs M contacted BMWFS  in November 2017 and in December 2017  to explain that she had 
been declined  a mortgage because  of the way it had reported her HP obligation to one or 
more credit reference agencies and/or because it had failed to report this obligation as settled.
Mrs M then says that due to BMWFS  failing  to report her HP obligation  as settled, or to 
report it as a single obligation of £13,360 rather than a monthly obligation  of £13,360,  she 
had no choice but to arrange  a mortgage  with another lender, a lender that I will call B. She 
also says that Bs mortgage offer terms were less favourable than those she would have 
secured from A.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should  be 
upheld. In summary she said:
BMWFS had failed  to report  Mrs Ms HP obligation correctly, or accurately, with one or 
more credit  reference agencies.
This incorrect, or inaccurate,  reporting of Mrs Ms HP obligation with one or more  credit 
reference agencies  caused her to be unable to secure her first choice mortgage.
The investigator then went on to outline  what she felt BMWFS  should  pay by way of 
compensation. In summary she said BMWFS should  pay Mrs M:
The difference between the cost of her mortgage with B and the cost of the mortgage 
she says she could  have secured  from A.
£500 for the trouble  and upset she had been caused.
Ref: DRN76886992BMWFS didnt agree and so the matter was passed  to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January  2019.  In summary I said:  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive reviewed three credit files that have been  provided Having carried  out a review  
of these three credit files I would make the following comments:
From  10 December 2017 Mrs Ms credit file correctly showed her liability with 
BMWFS as being settled. So I cant see that Mrs Ms credit file from 
10 December 2017 could be said to be incorrect or misleading.
Between 24 October and 9 December 2017 Mrs Ms credit file showed her 
liability with BMWFS as being outstanding  (when it had been settled). So I 
can see that Mrs Ms credit file between 24 October  and 9 December 2017 
could be said to be incorrect  or misleading.
Before 24 October  2017  Mrs Ms credit  file showed that she had a regular 
liability to BMWFS of £13,360 a month,  when what Mrs M actually  had was a 
single liability to BMWFS of £13,360  payable on 24 October 2017. So I can 
see that Mrs Ms credit file before 24 October  2017 could be said to be 
incorrect or misleading.
Its my understanding that BMWFS had an obligation to Mrs M (and others) to report 
her liability  to it accurately  with credit reference  agencies and whatever the reasons, 
it failed to do this until 10 December 2017,  when  it was marked as settled. Now I 
appreciate that BMWFS says it had no other  way of reporting this liability.  But just 
because a business cant report a liability accurately doesnt mean it can, instead, 
report it inaccurately.
However, Im not persuaded that BMWFS reporting of Mrs Ms liability in the manner 
that it did prior to 10 December 2017  caused  her a financial loss, and certainly  not 
the level of financial  loss she submits.
First Im not persuaded  that Mrs M has sufficiently  demonstrated that A declined  her 
mortgage for the reason  she has submitted. I say this because the application 
submitted to A was for a mortgage in principle, not an application for the specific 
property Mrs M was looking to purchase  and which  she eventually  did. And because I 
cant see that A has ever confirmed that the reason for Mrs M being declined  a 
mortgage in principle was for the specific reason Mrs M has submitted.
Secondly Im mindful that BMWFS confirmed to Mrs M in early December 2017  that it 
would update her credit file in mid-December  2017  to show her commitment with it 
as being settled. And because of this I think it would  be unfair to hold BMWFS 
responsible for Mrs Ms decision  to apply for a mortgage with B when she did, rather 
than waiting. And had Mrs M waited  till mid-December  2017, only a week or two later,  
she could have applied  again for a mortgage with A when her liability to BMWFS was 
recorded correctly on her credit  file as settled.
Ref: DRN76886993Furthermore I think Mrs M could have approached lender A in early  December  2017  
and explained  that BMWFS had undertaken to update her credit  file in 
mid-December 2017 to show her commitment  with it as being  settled (and this could 
be verified if required) and that due consideration to this fact should be given when 
underwriting her mortgage in principle application. I also dont  think  its reasonable to 
have expected BMWFS  to have reported  Mrs Ms commitment with it as being settled 
on the day that it was, or much before it did. This is because  its my understanding 
that its not unusual for a business  to report a liability as settled until some  weeks  
after it actually is.
I would also add, although I appreciate it will be of little consolation,  Mrs M hasnt 
suffered the loss she has submitted she has lost
So in summary Im currently minded to find that it would be neither fair nor reasonable 
to direct BMWFS  to pay Mrs M the financial loss she says she has suffered.
Although Im not persuaded that BMWFS should  have  to compensate Mrs M for any 
direct loss she might have suffered, Im satisfied  that on realising how BMWFS  had 
reported her liability  to it with one or more credit  reference agencies caused  her a 
degree of trouble and upset for which she should be fairly  compensated. 
Having had regard,  amongst other things, that Mrs M used the services of a 
mortgage broker and that she was able to secure  a mortgage on her proposed  
purchase quickly (albeit with B rather than A) I find £200 represents a fair and 
reasonable sum for BMWFS to have  to pay in this respect.
BMWFS responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs M responded to say that she didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary  
she said:
The only reason she was given for the declinature of her mortgage in principle (with A) was 
because of credit information reported by BMWFS to one or more credit  reference agencies.
She appealed the declinature of her mortgage  in principle (with A) but was advised by A 
that it would only consider  a new (or further) application  after the credit reference entry 
in question  had been amended.
She wasnt convinced that BMWFS would amend the entry in question in good time.
Waiting for the amendment of the entry in question wasnt  viable because  of the time 
constraint she was under to secure  a mortgage for her proposed property purchase.
Its unfair  that businesses can report  incorrect information to credit  reference agencies 
without retribution.
Ref: DRN76886994my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont underestimate  Mrs Ms strength of feeling in this matter. But I remain of the view that 
she has been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction  (for example by way of documentary 
evidence) that the reason  she was declined her mortgage in principle with A was because of 
credit information reported by BMWFS  to one or more credit reference agencies.  Or that she 
was advised such  an entry  would need  to be amended before A would consider a new 
(or further application).
But even if I wasnt of this view, I still remain satisfied that it would have been reasonable for 
Mrs M to have  given BMWFS time to amend  her credit file, as it said it would, rather  than 
electing to apply for a mortgage  with B instead. I would also add that Im not persuaded that 
Mrs M was under  so much pressure to secure  a mortgage that giving BMWFS  a couple of 
weeks to amend her credit file wasnt a viable option.
Finally I would add that I didnt conclude that BMWFS  shouldnt  have to compensate Mrs M 
for what it had reported to one or more  credit reference agencies,  just that I didnt think  it 
was fair or reasonable to direct it to compensate her for any direct  loss she might have 
suffered, a loss I had calculated to be substantially less than Mrs M believed to be the case.
Therefore taking everything into account I remain of the view that the appropriate outcome to 
this complaint is for BMWFS  to pay Mrs M £200.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint in part and find that that BMW  Financial 
Services(GB) Limited should  pay Mrs M £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7688699