K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough when  there were a 
number of unusual  transactions on her debit card.
background
When Miss W opened her bank statement in March 2018 she saw a large number of online 
transactions to the same  retailer  that she didnt recognise. These  transactions  came to 
around £1,400.  She immediately phoned NatWest to ask it to block her card.  She 
subsequently discovered her son had used her card and so she phoned the bank again and 
asked it to unblock the card. But it couldnt  do that because itd cancelled it and was in the 
process of ordering a new one. Her son is now paying her back for the money he spent but 
Miss W is unhappy  that NatWest didnt  immediately flag these transactions  as fraudulent. 
Shes also unhappy about the banks customer service.
The bank said Miss W had previously  registered  her card details on the retailers website. 
That registration authorised future payments so the banks systems hadnt  flagged them as 
fraudulent payments. And in line with its policy on fraud prevention it cancelled the card 
when Miss W phoned it to say she didnt  recognise  the transactions.  
Our investigator could  see NatWest  had followed its policy for fraud detection so she didnt 
think the bank  had done anything wrong  when it didnt alert Miss W to these transactions.  
And when  Miss W first phoned the bank  it followed  its policy by cancelling her card.  She 
listened to the phone calls Miss W had with the bank at the time and was satisfied this had 
been explained to her. And she didnt think NatWests customer service  had given any cause 
for concern.
Miss W wasnt happy with this. She said the activity on her account was unusual and 
NatWest shouldve alerted her. A courtesy  call from the bank wouldve saved her a lot of 
time in trying  to resolve the problem.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant tell banks what systems they should  use. And as our investigator explained banks 
arent required to have processes in place to detect unusual activity, only potentially 
fraudulent payments. Miss W says she knows of other customers of NatWest  who were  
notified of transactions that werent  fraudulent. I cant comment on other  cases  except to say 
that banks fraud detention system  identify  potentially  fraudulent  transactions  that may turn 
out to be genuine. 
But these  particular transactions didnt  trigger NatWests  system. And that may be because 
Miss Ws card was already  registered  to the retailer website. So I dont  think NatWest was 
wrong not to have  alerted  her. 
NatWest cancelled Miss Ws card rather than just blocking it in line with its fraud  prevention 
policy. And it explained this to her when she initially phoned it. So I cant fairly find it was 
wrong to do this. And I cant see that NatWests customer service  fell below the standard we 
would expect. 
Ref: DRN76543212Miss W says shes decided to move banks after many years  of banking with NatWest. She 
thinks consideration should be given  to the impact  this move has had on her. But Im 
satisfied NatWest hasnt  done anything wrong.  So I cant fairly ask it to pay compensation to 
Miss W for the impact  her decision to move  to another bank  has had on her.
I can see how strongly Miss W feels about  this and I can understand how upset she must 
have been when she discovered these  transactions. But for the reasons Ive given I cant 
see NatWest did anything  wrong.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7654321