K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about a car she bought  under  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited.
background
In March 2016 Miss W bought a car under a hire purchase agreement financed by FirstRand 
Bank. She says there have been  numerous faults  with the car since then. She complained to 
the bank about them in November 2017 and again in June  2018.  The bank did not accept 
that it was liable for any of the faults.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Miss W complained to our Service  in December 2017 
and July 2018. Her first complaint to our Service (about the steering column)  was not upheld.  
In her second complaint  this one  our investigator  thought  that the bank was not liable for 
any of the faults,  except  one: a faulty alternator  which had failed within  five months  of 
Miss Ws purchase of the car. The investigator  recommended that the bank pay for that item, 
which cost £148.80,  but otherwise she did not uphold  this complaint.
Miss W did not accept that opinion,  and she asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I broadly agree with our 
investigator. I will explain why.
Because under the hire purchase agreement, FirstRand Bank bought  the car from the dealer 
and then hired it to Miss W, the bank is liable to her for any faults with the car which were 
present or developing when she hired  it in March 2016. Under section 19 of the Consumer  
Rights Act 2015, there is a presumption that any fault which is discovered within six months  
was present when  she took the car. Conversely, any fault discovered later than that is 
presumed not to have  been present or developing  at the time, and so the bank will not be 
liable for it  unless  Miss W can prove that the fault was indeed present when she hired the 
car.
The alternator developed a fault and had to be replaced at a cost to Miss W of £148.80. That 
happened in August 2016, about  five months  after she collected  the car. I have  seen no 
evidence to suggest that this fault was not present when she hired the car, and so I presume 
that it was. It is therefore fair that the bank should refund that amount to her. I will award  
simple interest on the refund at a rate of eight per cent a year.
I have seen text messages between Miss W and the garage from April 2016, in which  she 
complained about a noise  the car was making. She says, and I accept, that she complained 
about that noise three  times  that month. She also says that around  the same  time, she 
complained that the car was overheating, and about problems with the air conditioning, the 
speedometer and the rev meter. She says that she kept taking the car back to the garage  
until March 2017,  when it failed its MOT test. She says that most of the garages repairs to 
the car were done free of charge as a gesture  of good will. (She was charged for the new 
alternator, but the labour  was free.)
Ref: DRN76669692The bank asked  the garage  to provide its invoices for that period, but the garage has not 
provided them. However, if the work  was done for free then there  might  not be any invoices, 
and so I draw no inferences  from the failure to provide any.
Miss W has driven the car since March 2017,  so I infer that after it failed its MOT,  the 
necessary work was done to enable  it to pass.
The first time Miss W complained to the bank (rather than to the garage) was in March 2017.  
That was only a complaint about the hire purchase  agreement, not about the car. The first 
time she complained  to the bank about  the car was in November 2017. The only issue she 
mentioned on that occasion was a problem with the steering column. Importantly, she did not 
mention the noise the car had made, or the other  issues  she had complained  about  in 2016. 
I therefore infer that these  matters had been  resolved. Apart from the alternator, they appear 
to have been resolved at no cost to her.
All of the later problems were first raised  more than six months  after Miss W acquired  the 
car, so the presumption  must be that they are not faults for which  the bank can be held 
liable. I have seen  an email from an independent  engineer to Miss W, in August  2018, 
saying that due to the length of time since she bought the car, it would not be possible to 
establish whether  any existing  faults  had been  present when she bought it.
For the above reasons, I do not uphold  this complaint in relation to any of the issues raised, 
apart from the faulty alternator.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order FirstRand  Bank Limited to pay 
Miss W £148.80,  and also to pay her simple  interest on that refund at a rate of eight per cent 
a year from 18 August  2016 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666969