K820x#14complaint
Mr A says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to FICL  in this decision, rather than any other  business.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr A bought the policy for his store  card in 1995. It covered his card repayments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case.
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
FICL has provided evidence that Mr A took out a store card in January 1995 by filling  in an 
application form. Its not clear what happened  next,  but it looks  like his card was approved  
and set up without  PPI. Then FICLs  evidence shows that Mr A was sold the policy in March 
1995 over the phone. If that is the case, then I think it wouldve been clear that Mr A didnt 
have to have PPI to get approved for his store  card. And while  it is too long ago to know  
what was said on the call, Ive not seen any wider problems with FICLs telephone  sales 
process from the time.  
So I think its most likely that Mr A was made aware  he had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he doesnt  remember  
doing so after so long.
Both parties  agree that FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A or advise him to take it, so 
FICL didnt  have to check if it was suitable  for him. But it did have to give Mr A enough 
information to decide for himself if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mr A about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to decide if better  information  was likely to have  changed his mind. 
Ill first consider how much sick pay entitlement  Mr A would  have received if he was unable  
to work; as this was the reason the adjudicator  originally upheld his complaint.  Mr A has said 
that his employer would have paid for any time he was off sick and he had a statutory 
entitlement to this. I think his memory may be mistaken which  is understandable after so 
long. 
Ref: DRN78758122I say this because  in the experience of this service its very unusual  for an employer to offer 
an entitlement of more  than 6 months  full pay and 6 months  half pay including  the statutory 
period. And Mr A has not been able to provide any evidence that his provision was greater 
than this. So I think its more likely  than not that he has less than 12 months sick pay 
entitlement and I take this forward into my considerations below. 
For the reasons  I gave  above I think Mr A chose to take out the policy, which suggests he 
wanted this type of cover. 
I dont know what information FICL  gave  to Mr A at the time of sale or whether it was 
sufficient for him to make  an informed choice  when taking out the PPI. But even if FICL 
didnt give Mr A sufficient information,  I think he wouldve  still bought the policy  because:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale he had less than12 months sick pay entitlement  from his 
employer and no savings. The policy  wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if he was 
sick or he lost his job. It would pay out on top of any sick pay he received and it 
wouldve cleared  his original card balance if he was off for the full 12 months. So I think  
the policy  wouldve provided a useful benefit  for Mr A in his situation.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr A and he could cancel the 
policy at any time if he no longer wanted  it.
So overall I think Mr A would have taken  out the policy even if he had been fully informed, so 
he hasnt lost out due to anything FICL  did wrong.
I have thought about whether I need to look into the commission  FICL got from the policy 
sale. This is because,  in some circumstances, lenders have to pay back some  of that 
commission to consumers. As FICL wasnt a lender, I dont think I need  to look into this any 
further  though Mr A could contact his lender  about the commission it  got from his PPI.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr A nor FICL sent any further substantive comments to me by the date I set.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A and FICL provided  no further  evidence or arguments my conclusions  remain  as 
outlined in my provisional findings above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN78758123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7875812