K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont refund transactions that he says he didnt make  
or otherwise authorise.
background
In February 2019  upon receiving his bank  statement, Mr H called Lloyds to dispute a number 
of transactions  made from his Lloyds current account between 2 January 2019  - 25 February 
2019. Lloyds originally recorded  19 disputed  transactions.  These  transactions  were carried 
out using Mr Hs card, along with his personal identification number (PIN). Lloyds  declined  
the claim on the basis that Mr H was grossly negligent. They highlighted that:
A balance enquiry  was carried out just before  a disputed  cash  withdrawal of £1,000.
The same  IP address  Mr H previously  used to check his online banking was used  to 
make a disputed card payment of £1,000 to a company Ill refer to as V.
There were  multiple balance enquires during  the period of dispute  and believed Mr H 
should have noticed  the missing funds sooner.
Unhappy with how Lloyds  handled things, Mr H referred his complaint to this service.  
Mr H also said:
He gave his debit card details to his parents so they could put money into his 
account.  
He gave his card and PIN to a friend so he could  withdraw cash from his account in 
January 2019.  
He left his debit card in his car when  it was serviced. 
His partner doesnt have access to his debit  card. 
Hed the card in his possession  during the period of the disputed transactions and it 
wasnt lost or stolen.
He hasnt had any problems since he reported the disputed transactions to Lloyds 
and his card was cancelled on 6 March  2019.
Mr H said Lloyds looked into his complaint  again  as hed obtained refunds for the majority of 
the disputed transactions from the merchants  directly.  But disputed the following three 
transactions that Lloyds refused to refund:
£1,000 cash  withdrawal made using Mr Hs card and PIN. 
£250 cash machine  withdrawal made  using Mr Hs card and PIN  not initially 
disputed. 
£1,000 online card payment to V made  using  Mr Hs debit card.
Mr H said Lloyds paid him £75 for the way he was treated when he complained  about  the 
disputed transactions  and £14 for his call costs.  He felt this evidenced that Lloyds had made 
a mistake. Mr H also said he disputed the transactions earlier  than his call of 6 March  2019 
and this was done in branch. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude  that the cash withdrawals and card payment had been made fraudulently 
and was persuaded they were most likely made  or authorised by Mr H. She also felt hed 
been inconsistent  in his testimony to Lloyds and our service. 
Ref: DRN71728502Our investigator referred  to a telephone conversation she had with Mr H where he told her 
that the £1,000 cash withdrawal was his fault and hed gotten mixed up when he made the 
report to Lloyds. Our investigator discussed  the online payment to V. Mr H clarified that hed 
requested access to his online banking in branch  - not online.  Mr H said hed received two 
separate letters from Lloyds relating to this request  but he should have only been sent one 
letter. Our investigator asked Mr H to provide evidence of the two letters  to her  he said he 
would.
Unhappy with our investigators  outcome, Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review  the case. 
He said he wanted  to send us further evidence but he didnt want  to send this to our 
investigator. 
The case  was passed to me and I invited Mr H to submit any further evidence he wanted me 
to consider. Mr H didnt respond, so Ive reviewed the case  based  on the evidence available  
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. As Mr H accepted he 
was mistaken about the £1,000 cash withdrawal, I dont intend to make a finding  on this 
point.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr H liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from Lloyds technical evidence that Mr Hs genuine  card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transactions. But the regulations  relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold him liable. So I also need  to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H consented  to the cash 
withdrawal and card payment.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed cash withdrawal was made  using Mr Hs genuine card and PIN, but theres 
no convincing explanation for how a third party could have known Mr Hs PIN. It seems 
unlikely that an opportunistic fraudster  wouldve been able to obtain Mr Hs card, guess 
his PIN correctly first time and return Mr Hs card without him knowing.  Mr H mentioned 
hed given a friend his card and PIN to withdraw  money from a cash  point in January 
2019 but theres no explanation of that same friend  having access  to Mr Hs card again 
in February 2019  without his awareness or permission. Ive also taken into account that 
Mr H didnt initially dispute this transaction with Lloyds and given the number of 
transactions that he did dispute,  I dont see why he would  have missed this one. 
The payment  to V was made using Mr Hs debit  card details. Ive listened  to Mr Hs calls 
with Lloyds. Mr H originally told Lloyds  that he was aware of the company V and that 
they provide credit cards but he needed  to check the transaction  with his partner. In a 
later conversation with Lloyds he didnt seem to have the same awareness of V and 
Ref: DRN71728503suggested it was an online  payment.  During  a conversation  with our service  - that Ive 
also listened to - Mr H provided a partial post code matching some of the details we 
obtained for the payment  to V. Im not persuaded Mr H wasnt aware of the payment to V 
or that he didnt consent to it because of the inconsistencies in his testimony about this 
transaction.
It also seems  unlikely  that a fraudster  would only use the card details once then stop 
whilst there  were  funds still available.
Mr H said he only set up online banking when he complained to Lloyds in March  2019. 
But Ive seen that the information Mr H needed to complete the registration of his online 
banking was requested on 20 February 2019.  Mr H says this wasnt him but he would 
only have been able to complete the registration for his online banking in March  2019 
with the information requested on 20 February  2019. Mr H states  he requested  this 
information in branch  not online but we have no evidence to confirm his version  of 
events. Ive seen  that the IP address used  on 20 February  2019  was the same IP 
address used to make  the disputed payment to V. I appreciate Mr H disputed the 
legitimacy of the IP address evidence but Im persuaded it aids the overall picture that 
this disputed payment  was more than likely made by him or with his authorisation.
Mr H didnt report the disputed transactions for almost two months. He says this is 
because he only noticed the funds were  missing when he received  his bank statement 
(which Im satisfied was dispatched on 21 February 2019). I have seen that a statement 
was issued to him on 21 January 2019 which also contained disputed transactions but 
Im satisfied  the bulk of the disputes  would  have appeared on his February 2019 
statement. Mr H enquired  about  some of the transactions at the end of February  2019  
but Ive seen that there were several  balance enquiries between  4 February  26 
February 2019  so Im not persuaded the earliest Mr H ought  to have known about the 
disputed transactions  was following  the issuing of his February  2019  statement. Given  
the large amount of money  that was missing, Id have thought hed have reported it 
sooner than he did. Ive seen no evidence  to confirm Mr Hs account that the 
transactions were  disputed earlier in branch.
All in all I dont find Mr Hs testimony  to be persuasive or plausible. For all the reasons I have 
given, I think its more  likely that Mr H made the cash withdrawal himself than it was carried  
out by someone  else. I also find that the card payment to V was made  by Mr H, or with his 
consent.
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to refuse a refund of the disputed  
transactions on the basis they were authorised by Mr H. 
I do think Lloyds fraud  department could have been  a bit more patient  with Mr H. At the 
point his call was transferred through to them, hed already spent approximately  an hour on 
the phone  to another department with Lloyds. I think they were abrupt with him and could 
have handled  this call more sensitively. I therefore  agree with the compensation already paid 
along with the refund of Mr Hs call costs. I make no additional award  on this point. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Ref: DRN71728504Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7172850