K820x#14Complaint
Mr B and Ms D say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them  two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies. 
Background
In 1993 and 1996, Halifax sold Mr B and Ms D two regular  premium PPI policies  each  one 
protecting their joint mortgage repayments if they were unable to work because of disability 
or unemployment. I gather the first policy covered Mr B and Ms D whereas the second  policy  
covered Mr B only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint about  either policy should be upheld.  
Mr B and Ms D disagreed, so the complaint  was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr B and Ms Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr B and Ms D say Halifax  led them to believe the PPI was a compulsory part of the 
mortgages they applied for. I cant say for sure what happened, especially since Halifax 
doesnt still have  all the paperwork that was completed at the time of these sales. Thats not 
surprising given how long ago the PPI was sold. But I cant  see any evidence  to support 
what Mr B and Ms D have said. 
For example, Ive seen  a copy of the separate PPI application form Mr B and Ms D signed  in 
1993. The form includes details  of who was to be insured, for how much and at what cost. 
Theres nothing on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory 
Overall, Ive seen nothing to indicate  Mr B and Ms D didnt agree to take PPI on both 
occasions, knowing it was separate to the mortgages and that it was optional.
I think Halifax likely recommended the PPI to Mr B and Ms D. That meant Halifax needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, Im satisfied  Mr B and Ms D were  eligible for the cover and cant  see that 
theyd have found the monthly premiums unaffordable either. The policies restricted claims 
for pre-existing medical conditions which I note could have affected Mr B given  the medical 
condition I understand he told Halifax about in making his complaint. 
However, based on the available  information, I cant fairly conclude that Mr Bs medical  
condition affected  him to the extent that it would have given Mr B and Ms D much cause for 
concern when deciding whether to take out the PPI, or would  have meant that the PPI wasnt  
suitable for them. 
Ref: DRN79482202Mr B and Ms D say theyd  have  received generous  sick pay and redundancy pay from their 
respective employers which meant they didnt need PPI. But the PPI benefits would have 
paid out on top of that pay and for up to 12 months  per claim (up to 24 months per disability 
claim under the 1993 policy). Although they say they had other  means of making their 
repayments, the PPI would  have allowed them  to retain those other  means or use them  
towards covering  their other  daily living expenses if one of them  wasnt  working.
Given Mr B and Ms D had taken out borrowing secured against their home  and 
considering the potentially  serious  consequences of them defaulting  on their repayments   I 
think theyd have valued the extra security  the PPI provided.  
Ive thought about the joint life cover  and death  in service benefits Mr B and Ms D mention 
but they would have  offered a lump sum payment  on the death of the insured. The PPI, on 
the other hand,  provided a regular  monthly payment in the event of disablement or 
unemployment. So Im satisfied the policies  covered  different things.
Halifax also needed to ensure that it gave Mr B and Ms D enough information about  the PPI 
policies for them to decide for themselves if they were right.  Its possible that the information 
it gave them could have  been better than it was, both in 1993 and 1996. But, for much the 
same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think better 
information would have changed their minds about taking it. I think they would still have 
thought the PPI offered  them useful  cover at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr B and Ms D have  lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them either policy.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948220