K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F say TSB Bank Plcs  IT problems had an impact  on them. 
background 
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Mr and Mrs F say this meant their 
address was amended on TSBs  internal  systems to an incorrect  one. This led to them being 
unable to apply  for a mortgage from a third party provider  due to the discrepancy in address 
on their statements. They would like TSB to pay the difference between the interest rate they 
couldve received  from the third party  mortgage provider and the interest  rate they did 
receive from their existing mortgage provider. Plus the arrangement fees they had to pay. 
Theyve also mentioned  a debit card was sent to the incorrect address because  of TSBs 
error. 
TSB looked into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and agreed that it hadnt done everything  it 
shouldve done.  But it didnt think it could consider the financial losses  Mr and Mrs F were 
claiming on the mortgage aspect of the complaint.  So it offered them  £250  compensation 
and £50 for any financial losses they may have incurred. Two of our adjudicators  assessed 
the complaint  and agreed with the total offer of £300 put forward  by TSB.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree. They still felt that TSB should pay the difference between the 
interest rate they received and the one they couldve got with a third party mortgage 
provider. As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint  has been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the recommendation previously  made  of a total of £300 for 
distress and inconvenience and any financial losses Mr and Mrs F may have incurred.  And I 
dont think TSB should pay Mr and Mrs F anything  in relation to the losses  they say they 
incurred on the mortgage they took out. Ill explain why. 
Its clear that due to the problems TSB had in April 2018, Mr and Mrs Fs address was 
incorrectly amended  and this caused  them some issues. Looking at what both parties have 
sent me,  I can see this was first noticed  on 18 June 2018 when Mr and Mrs F printed out a 
copy of their statement  and it had an incorrect address on it. They  raised a complaint about  
this, amongst other things, to TSB on 19 June and asked for the problems theyd listed  to be 
fixed. But the address wasnt corrected until 13 July when Mr F visited a TSB branch. 
Mr and Mrs F say that during this time, they applied for a mortgage  with a third party  
provider. But due to the discrepancy  between their bank statements and the information 
given to the mortgage provider, they werent  able to continue with the application. I 
appreciate that due to TSBs  error, Mr and Mrs F were unable  to continue with a mortgage 
application. But Im only able to consider actual financial losses  that theyve incurred, 
meaning I cant consider  potential financial  losses. 
Mr and Mrs F have  confirmed that they were unable to proceed  with the application  for the 
mortgage. And there are many factors that go into a mortgage application, with no guarantee 
Ref: DRN79443172that it will be accepted  and an agreeable offer made  by the mortgage  provider. With this in 
mind, I cant  safely  say Mr and Mrs F wouldve been offered the mortgage they wanted 
during the time their address was incorrect with TSB. So I dont think it would be fair for TSB 
to pay either  the difference between  the mortgage Mr and Mrs F did receive  and the one 
they wanted, or the arrangement fees they incurred. 
Having said that, I do agree  that the whole process of getting the address amended was 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs F. And even after this had been corrected they still had a 
replacement debit card sent to the wrong address  in November. This led to Mr F being 
unable to pay for items when the old card expired, which was embarrassing for him. 
Having considered all of this, I agree with the recommendation previously  made by TSB for 
£250 compensation, plus £50 for any financial losses Mr and Mrs F may have incurred. I 
think this is a fair reflection of the impact the matter has had on them and is in line with what  
I wouldve  recommended  in the circumstances.  
my final decision
TSB Bank Plc should arrange to pay Mr and Mrs F a total of £300 for the impact the issues 
have had on them, if it hasnt already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7944317