K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  gave  poor service under a home  emergency  
insurance policy.
background 
Mr W is a director  of a small safety  management  consultancy company.
He had home buildings insurance  under which another insurer was responsible  for dealing  
with claims. It was subject  to a policy excess of £250.00 per claim.
He also had an electrical emergency  policy branded with the name  of a home assistance 
company. Under  that policy Aviva was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where 
I refer to Aviva, I include the home assistance company, its engineers and others  for whose 
actions I hold Aviva responsible.
On 1 May Mr W called  Aviva for help with an electrical problem affecting his hot water  
cylinder. An electrician  visited  on 2 May and said a plumber would need  to fix the thermostat. 
Mr W made arrangement for a further visit on 8 May between 12:00  and 18:00.  But by the 
early evening the plumber hadnt  arrived, so Mr W contacted  the company. It said the 
plumber wouldnt come until 14 May. 
Mr W complained  that on 14 May the plumber ran very hot water into his expensive bath  
causing thermal cracking.
In his letter of complaint  on 23 May, Mr W asked for compensation for the loss on 8 May of 6 
hours earnings at £100.00 per hour. He also asked the company for a letter of apology,  to 
pay for a new bath to be fitted and compensation for the fact that he and his wife were 
without the use of their bath. 
On about 8 June the home  buildings insurer  agreed  to send a cheque  to pay for a 
replacement bath. By about  13 June Mr W paid a £2,000.00 deposit for the new bath. 
On 15 June Mr W claimed £59.00  for increased home  insurance  premiums as a result of the 
claim.
In late June the home assistance company paid Mr W the following:
- £600.00  for loss of earnings;
- £250.00  for the excess on the home buildings insurance claim;
- £59.00 for any increase  in home  insurance  premiums as a result of the claim;
- £500.00  for the distress  and inconvenience the situation had caused; and
- £2.74  for interest while the home  buildings insurance cheque was clearing.
-£1,411.74 in total 
By the time the bath was delivered,  fitted and ready for use, it was about 19 July.
Ref: DRN77781582Mr W wasnt happy with what Aviva  had paid. So he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
compensation the company had paid was enough  to reflect the increase in insurance 
premiums and the upset  and inconvenience this situation had caused.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
The home assistance company never  apologised for the damage.  
The claim on the home buildings insurance affected his no claims. The amount of 
compensation given by the home assistance company to cover  the increased  
premiums was £59.00  but this was supposed  to cover 5 years of increased  
premiums. This years  premium  has already  increased by £58.18. Therefore the 
amount of compensation for this aspect should be increased by £231.90. 
£500.00 compensation for the loss of the use of the bath equates  to £7.57 a day. 
Thats inadequate.   
He and his wife were  considerably inconvenienced in getting the matter sorted with 
numerous phone calls, etc. The company accepted £100.00 an hour for the loss of 
earnings when  they failed  to attend  the first appointment. He estimates a further 7 
hours dealing  with this incident. And he had to take a day off work while  the bath was 
fitted (8 hours).Therefore, the compensation for time taken  to get the matter  rectified  
should be an additional £1,500.00.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws time on 8 May
Mr Ws company  sent the home assistance company an invoice for 6 hours at £100.00. And 
the home assistance company paid Mr W that amount as part of its payment in June 2018.
As Mr W works for his own company,  I wouldnt  have ordered the insurer  to pay 
compensation for a financial loss of earnings  arising  from the missed appointment. 
I wouldve  awarded some compensation for inconvenience  but at much less than £100.00 
per hour.
Damage on 14 May
In its final response letter  dated 15 June, the home assistance company apologised for the 
damage that had been caused.  It said the following:
A plumber attended  and whilst emptying  the water tank to fix the thermostat he ran 
the boiling hot water into the bath. This caused  the bath to crack
Ref: DRN77781583Having reviewed this and discussed  it with you, I am really sorry for the damage that 
has been caused.
More recently the home buildings insurer told Mr W the following:
heard from [home  assistance company] and they've agreed to repay our outlay.  I 
understand that they've  already refunded your excess to you directly .
Those two statements are important. Without them I wouldve had to consider whether 
Avivas plumber fell below a reasonable standard of skill and care by discharging hot water 
into a bath made of natural stone. But the two statements  (and the payment) show that the 
home assistance company accepted responsibility for the damage.  
So I think its only right that Aviva reimbursed the £250.00 policy excess  on the home  
buildings insurance  claim.
Mr W hasnt sent us his home  buildings insurance renewal letters  showing an increase of 
about £59.00. And he hasnt shown that this was all due to his claim. The statement from the 
home buildings insurer  that its recovering its outlay - suggests  that Mr Ws claim wont 
affect his no claims or future  premium.  
So I dont  think hes shown that Aviva caused  him a financial loss in respect of increased 
home buildings insurance premiums. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  Aviva to 
pay him compensation for that.
From what  Mr W has said, I think he and his wife had a shower at home.  So I dont think  
their home was uninhabitable or that it wouldve been reasonable for them to use a hotel. 
They didnt use a hotel  and the potential cost of that is not a benchmark I find appropriate.
But I accept that a shower isnt the same  as a bath and Mr Ws wifes  daily routine was 
disrupted. They also had to deal with the home buildings claim, source the replacement 
bath, and be at home  when it was installed.
From what  hes said and from its file, Im not satisfied that Aviva was proactive  about 
contacting Mr W  or even rang him back when it said it would.
So I accept  that Aviva caused  Mr and Mrs W trouble and inconvenience.
But  as well as agreeing to reimburse  the other  insurer for the replacement  bath - Aviva  has 
paid Mr W compensation including £500.00  for distress and inconvenience. Overall I find 
that compensation fair and reasonable  keeping in mind what I wouldve awarded in similar 
cases involving complete  loss of central heating and hot water.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  Aviva  to pay Mr W any more  
compensation or to do anything further in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN77781584Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7778158