K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his mobile phone  insurance cover with 
Assurant General Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  setting out the details of the 
complaint and why I intended to uphold it. I have copied the main part of my provisional 
decision below:
Mr M made a claim in July 2018  after his son lost his mobile phone  while  he was on his way 
to work. However, Assurant has refused to meet the claim,  as it says there is no longer  any 
cover for his son. 
Assurant says the policy covers Mr M and his family. The policy defines family members  as:
"You, your partner/spouse and all children (Including  legally adopted, foster  and step
children) of the account holder(s) who have not reached the age of 19 or not reached
the age of 22 if in full time education, living at the home address and are unmarried or have 
not entered Into a Civil Partnership."
Around two weeks  after receiving the claim, Assurant said that Mr Ms son is 19 and 
although he attends college, this is part-time and he works two days  a week. As he is not in 
full-time education, he is not eligible for cover under  the policy.  
Mr M is extremely unhappy  about this and also the time taken by Assurant to reach this 
decision. He says Assurant met a previous claim for his sons  phone when it was damaged 
and didnt raise  this. Mr M says his son is attending a full-time course at college. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and did not recommend that it be upheld.      
Mr M had provided a letter from the college  which  he said confirmed his son was studying 
full-time but the adjudicator didnt consider that this was sufficient, as it was not signed and 
simply says it is from the administration department and doesnt say what  course his son 
was studying.  
The adjudicator also noted that the damage  claim referred to by Mr M was made when  his 
son was 17 years old. The adjudicator also didnt think Assurant had taken an unreasonable 
amount of time to consider the matter.  
Mr M doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment and so the matter has been passed to 
me. He says the adjudicator has ignored the evidence provided, including the letter  from the 
college which confirms his son is in college  three days a week and at a company for two 
days a week, which is deemed to be full-time education. 
Ref: DRN77272642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Ms son is 19 years old, he is only covered if he is also in full-time education. 
Mr M says he is and has provided a copy of a letter from the college which  says:
As per our telephone conversation today. We can confirm  [Mr Ms son] is on a full time
course at College. This consists of 3 days class and 2 days  at the company.
Hope this helps
Yours sincerely
Administrations Department.
This is not from an individual and is not signed but I dont consider this to be fatal to the 
claim. It would be preferable if Mr Ms son could provide some further evidence about  his 
course but given  that this is consistent  with the claim details, I am prepared to accept  the 
content of this letter at this moment in time.  
The policy doesnt  define what Assurant thinks full-time education  means. For benefits 
purposes, full-time education  is defined as education undertaken in pursuit of a course,  
where an average of more than 12 hours  per week is spent during term time
receiving tuition  
engaging in practical work
receiving supervised study 
taking examinations.
From the evidence provided, Mr Ms son appears  to be spending an average of more  than 
12 hours per week in the classroom  and in a course related work-experience. He would 
therefore be considered to be in full-time  education.  
I therefore consider  that Assurant should not have refused the claim for the reasons that it 
did. Mr M has said his son has been  using an old phone, as he couldnt afford to replace the 
insured phone. I therefore intend to ask Assurant to proceed with the claim but I think  it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to waive the excess that would  have been  payable, and 
pay Mr M £75 compensation. In my opinion, this would represent fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect refusal of the claim. 
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to 
reconsider the claim (subject to the remaining terms and conditions,  apart from the excess 
which should be waived); and pay Mr M £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the matter.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr M and Assurant have both responded and confirmed they accept my provisional decision.  
Neither have added anything further. 
Ref: DRN77272643my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have  provided any further information, I see no reason  to change my 
provisional findings. I therefore remain of the opinion that Assurant  should  not have refused 
to deal with the claim for the reasons  it did. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Assurant General Insurance Limited  and require it to 
reconsider the claim (subject to the remaining terms and conditions,  apart from the excess 
which should be waived); and pay Mr M £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the matter.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7727264