K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold 
them a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The policy was sold in 1999, at the same time that the related mortgage commenced. The 
policy was in Mr Ks name only.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On Mr and Mrs Ks behalf, their representative disagreed with these findings. It has 
highlighted that when sold the policy, Mr K had a pre-existing  medical condition  (PEMC).  
The representative has stated that this particular  condition can be a precursor  to other  
conditions, and that Mr K would not have been  able to claim under the policy  for any of these 
conditions if they caused him to be off work sick. Had the exclusion for PEMCs  been brought  
to his attention,  the representative states  that Mr K would not have taken the policy out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Mr and Mrs K have  said that they were not aware PPI had been taken out when they 
arranged the mortgage. NatWest has only been able to provide a limited amount of 
information about the sale. However  I dont consider this is surprising, bearing in mind  that 
the sale was a number of years ago.
I have to decide what I consider is most  likely to have happened when the policy  was taken  
out. I have  carefully  considered Mr and Mrs Ks comments about the sale.  However, I am 
mindful that the meeting  that occurred took place a number of years ago, in my view making  
it more difficult to recall in detail.
NatWest has been  able to provide a mortgage application form. There is a response Yes to 
a question about whether Mr and Mrs K want PPI. Mr K also signed a separate direct debit 
mandate which related specifically to payment of the PPI premiums. Overall  in my view this 
indicated that PPI was a separate  product  to the mortgage, and it also suggests that Mr K 
did agree  to take the policy out at this time. On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs K were  
offered PPI as an option, and that they chose to take it out in Mr Ks name.
NatWest did not advise Mr and Mrs K to take out PPI. However, it was still required to give 
clear, fair and not misleading information  about the PPI so that Mr and Mrs K could make  a 
properly informed choice  about it.
Ref: DRN72251262Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr K chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. The policy excluded cover for disability resulting from a PEMC. Mr K has explained 
that he is on medication for his condition. However,  he has stated that he has never been off 
work as a result of this, and that his day to day life is only affected in the sense  that he has 
to take medication.
I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ks representatives comments about the 
implications of Mr Ks PEMC, including the possibility that this might  have led him to have 
time off work with a related condition. However  on balance,  taking  into account Mr Ks 
description of the effect of his condition  on his daily life, my view is that if the PEMC  
exclusion had been brought  to Mr Ks attention, more likely than not he would still have 
chosen to take out the policy.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ks circumstances when sold the policy, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the other  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. In my view it would 
have been useful for him if he wasnt working. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
Overall in my view better  information about the PPI would not have put Mr K off taking out 
the cover. My conclusion is that this policy was not mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs K paid on the PPI policy   and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ks PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ks commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs K back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7225126