K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003, Mr D took out a loan over thirty six months to buy a car. At the same  time he was 
sold a single premium  PPI policy to protect the repayments on his loan. This premium was 
added to his loan and, therefore, attracted interest. The policy covered him for up to the 
remaining life of the loan if he was off work  because of an accident or sickness. And it would 
have covered him for up to twelve months  if hed become  unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds complaint. Although  I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr D, having  done  so, Im not upholding  it for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr D says he doesnt remember  taking  out PPI with his loan and doesnt think  he needed the 
cover it gave him.
Unfortunately, Nationwide dont still have all the paperwork from this sale. But that isnt 
altogether surprising given how long ago it took place. Businesses  arent  required to keep 
such records for so long. And Mr Ds memory of what happened when he took out this loan 
doesnt seem that clear  or detailed either. Again, thats not surprising as memories of such 
events do tend to dim with time.  So in these  circumstances, I need to decide what  I think is 
most likely to have happened based on my careful consideration of all the limited  information 
available to me now, including what I know about similar sales  by Nationwide  at about this 
time.
Nationwide says it cant be sure how this sale took place. Mr D isnt sure either,  but thinks  
its most  likely that it took place in his local Nationwide  branch. Ive kept an open mind  about 
this, but think it is quite likely that the sale did take place in a meeting. Whatever  sales 
channel was used,  its my experience that Nationwides  standard practice  was to make it 
clear to customers that PPI was optional and that they didnt need  to take it out to get their 
loan.
In this case, Nationwide do have a copy of the credit  agreement that Mr D signed  for his 
loan. And I can see that the cost of the PPI is clearly  shown on the face of this agreement - 
separate to the costs of the principal loan  under a heading Optional Credit  Insurance . If 
Mr D hadnt agreed to take out PPI with his loan, I think  he would have queried why PPI, 
described as optional, had been added to his loan agreement.
Ref: DRN71917432So from what Ive seen,  I think its most likely that Mr D actively decided to take the PPI 
cover, knowing he could choose  not to. But I can understand  why he might  not be able to 
recall this now.
Mr D says he cant remember whether the PPI was recommended  to him by Nationwide. 
Nationwide says this would have been a non-advised sale and I agree that this is most likely 
to have been the case. This means that it didnt need to ensure that the policy  was suitable 
for him. But it did still need  to ensure that he was given  enough  information  to decide, 
himself, if he wanted to take it. I think its likely  that Nationwide could have given Mr D better 
information than it did. But I dont think better  information would  have changed his mind  
about taking it. I say this because:
He appears to have  been eligible for the PPI policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr D says he didnt need  the policy because he had adequate means to make his loan 
repayments if he couldnt work. These  included generous sick pay from his employer and 
his available savings.  He also says his wife was earning at the time and also had savings 
of her own. But this policy  would have paid out in addition to any other  means he had, 
leaving these to be used  for other essential expenditure if things went wrong. And in the 
case of an accident or sickness, it could  have covered his loan repayments  for the whole 
of the remaining term of his loan. So I still think he would have found this additional cover 
useful.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable.  And the terms of the policy meant  that 
he would  have  received a proportionate refund of the premium hed been  charged if he 
repaid his loan early.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mr D has lost out because of anything  that 
Nationwide may have done wrong  when it sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against Nationwide  Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7191743