K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) repaired their home following a fire claim under their home insurance policy. 
background
In 2014 Mr and Mrs P made a claim to LV after their home  was damaged  by a fire in the 
chimney. LV accepted the claim and carried out repairs. It says part of the reason the repairs  
have taken so long is because its had to deal with several historic issues which  werent 
related to the original fire damage.
The parties dont  agree on two main outstanding issues. These are the chimney pot and roof 
valley.
Mr and Mrs P say that in the course of repairing the chimney, LVs contractor dropped a lot 
of bricks and rubble into the roof valley, causing it to move, leaving a gap. They think  this 
gap led to rain leaking  into the room below.  They also say LV put a chimney  pot on which  is 
too small and then filled the gap around it with sand and cement. They  think  the cement will 
soon crack  from the heat of the chimney.  They say rainwater leaked  into their property 
through the new chimney.
LV says its roofer checked  and the lead in the roof valley  hadnt  slipped. It thinks  the 
ongoing issues are largely  down to a lack of maintenance.
Mr and Mrs P complained to LV. In 2017  it offered to instruct an independent surveyor at its 
cost to report on the chimney and the roof. It also offered them  £2,500 for the delay in 
repairing their property.
Mr and Mrs P complained to this service. They think LV should repair  the chimney and the 
roof valley.  They also dont think the offer of compensation is sufficient to compensate them 
for the trouble and upset  theyve suffered. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  their complaint. He 
thought LVs offer was fair and reasonable.
As Mr and Mrs P dont agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The repairs  to Mr and Mrs Ps home have gone  on for about  five years.  I understand that 
originally they were scheduled to be finished in a few months. Ive looked at a timeline of the 
claim to see how much  of that delay  is LVs fault.  Part of the problem was that the property is 
old and various  unforeseen issues arose  in the course of the repairs.  At times LV had 
problems obtaining  access to the property.  
But there were times when LV didnt pay its contractor promptly.  When problems  arose, it 
didnt always carry out investigations with any sense  of urgency. This has undoubtedly in my 
opinion caused  unnecessary delay.
Ref: DRN71171052I dont penalise financial businesses  for their failings. So, when determining complaints of 
this nature it isnt the poor claim handling itself or the reason behind  it that I consider but the 
effect this had on the consumer. Mr P has suffered from serious health problems during the 
course of the claim. In my view, LVs failings in dealing  with their claim have had a severe 
effect on them. But, given  its offer of £2,500 compensation, LV appears to have recognised  
this. And I agree  with our adjudicator that this offer represents fair compensation for the 
effect its claim handling had in this case. So I dont consider  there to be grounds to require  
LV to pay any more  compensation.
In cases where the parties cant agree on the extent  of the insurers  liability for repairs, 
I often think the fairest  way forward is for an independent expert to be appointed  to provide 
an opinion  that will be binding on both parties.  Thats what LV has already offered to do in 
this case. It asked Mr and Mrs P to choose a surveyor from a list maintained by the 
surveyors professional  body. Its up to Mr and Mrs P whether they choose to accept this. But 
I dont think LV needs to do any more in respect of the dispute regarding  the chimney  and 
roof in order  to treat them  fairly and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy with the way LV has handled their claim for alternative 
accommodation. I dont  propose to look at this aspect as its the subject of court  
proceedings.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7117105