K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  (Home  Retail Group)  
incorrectly defaulted his store  card which impacted his credit file and meant he faced 
increase borrowing costs. Mr R also complains that Home  Retail  Group failed to update his 
credit file correctly after he raised his concerns.  
Background
Mr R missed some payments on his store  card in 2018 and Home Retail Group  wrote  to him 
to say it was going to default his account.  But Mr R called Home Retail Group  and made a 
payment arrangement shortly before the default date. 
Home Retail  Group mistakenly  defaulted Mr Rs store card despite the payment 
arrangement. Mr R says that because  of the default his existing borrowing costs  didnt come 
down as he expected and new credit  was only available at higher interest rates.  
In 2018 Mr R complained  about what happened. Home  Retail Group responded on 
3 October 2018 and agreed it had made a mistake  when  it defaulted  his store  card. It 
arranged for the default to be removed from Mr Rs credit file and offered him £150. Home 
Retail Group also refunded £100.98 of additional  interest Mr R paid as a result  of its mistake. 
Mr R contacted Home Retail Group  again as not all the credit reference  agencies had 
corrected the mistake.  Home Retail Group responded  on 15 October  2018  and agreed it 
hadnt updated Mr Rs credit file correctly because  of a systems error. Home  Retail  Group 
offered Mr R an additional £250,  taking  the total award to £500.98.  
Mr R asked our service  to look at what had happened and it was passed  to an investigator. 
The investigator thought Home  Retail  Group had paid a fair level of compensation and 
corrected its mistakes so they didnt  ask it to take any further action. Mr R asked to appeal 
so his complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
I can see Mr R has spent a lot of time pursuing  this complaint and has set out the 
circumstances in detail.  Ive been brief above  but I want  to assure all parties that 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr R asked for some  additional time to 
submit further comments and information  after the investigator looked  at his complaint. But 
as the response  date has passed and we havent  received anything else,  Im going  to 
proceed with the information we hold on file. 
One of Mr Rs main concerns is that the error  by Home  Retail  Group led to higher borrowing 
costs. Mr R says that Home Retail Groups  mistake meant his existing interest rates  didnt 
reduce as expected and new credit cost more. Hed like Home  Retail  Group to cover the 
additional costs.  
For me to tell Home  Retail Group to pay the additional costs Mr R has requested Id have to 
be persuaded that the default it registered  was the sole reason behind  the any higher rates  
he had to pay. But I have to take into account that Mr R was in arrears with Home Retail  
Group in 2017  and that he entered into a payment arrangement  to repay them.  Even if no 
errors had been  made the arrears  and payment arrangement would have  been  noted on 
Ref: DRN73025132Mr Rs credit file. And arrears and payment  arrangements are also considered  to be adverse 
information. Given Mr R would always have  had some level of adverse information on his 
credit file, Im not persuaded Home Retail Groups error in defaulting his store  card led to 
higher borrowing costs. 
Home Retail  Group didnt correct its mistake  when Mr R first complained. But its since taken 
steps to remove the default and accurately report Mr Rs account history. Home Retail  Group 
has apologised and sent Mr R cheques totalling  £400. Its also refunded £100.98 of 
additional interest Mr R paid as a result  of its errors. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R as I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter. But I havent 
been persuaded that Home Retail Groups  mistake led to higher borrowing costs so Im not 
telling it to cover the additional interest hes requested. Home Retail Group  has refunded 
£100.98 which means theres  no financial  loss and it also sent Mr R £400  to apologise for 
what happened. Whilst I understand how upset Mr R is, I think  the settlement Home  Retail  
Group has agreed to pay is fair in all the circumstances. As I think Home  Retail  Group has 
dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything  else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7302513