K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined a claim on their 
commercial insurance policy.
References to AXA also include  their agents.
Background
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point  that has been  made.
In August  2016,  there was a fire which caused extensive damage  to Mr and Mrs Ms 
property, stock and business vehicles. Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their policy.
AXA carried  out some  initial  inspections at Mr and Mrs Ms property. Following this, AXA 
wrote to Mr and Mrs M in November 2016 about  some concerns they had. AXAs main area 
of concern was unsatisfied County Court Judgments (CCJs) relating to Mr M at the time of 
the policy renewal  in August 2015 - and that these  werent disclosed to AXA.
AXA said under the terms of the policy and relevant law, they were entitled to avoid  or 
cancel the policy back to the renewal  date. They invited Mr and Mrs M to provide comments  
for them to consider.
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor  provided a response to AXA, they said:
Mr and Mrs M were  not aware  of the CCJs until AXA brought them to their attention
Mr and Mrs M hadnt received any court papers or CCJs, their property had been 
known by other names historically  and they had issues with receiving post in the past 
because of this
Mr and Mrs M had no reason to believe any of the CCJs wouldve  been material  for 
them to disclose to AXA if they were aware  of them   so they felt they hadnt made 
any misrepresentation or non-disclosure  in relation to the CCJs
AXA provided a copy of a CCJ from August 2014  which had been issued as accepted  by 
Mr M. They also included a copy of another judgment from August 2015, which matched the 
address they had for Mr and Mrs M. So, AXA believed Mr M was aware of at least  one of the 
CCJs and may have been aware of the others.  AXA said these should have been disclosed 
at the time of the renewal   had they done  so, AXA would have not offered cover on any 
terms. So they said they were entitled to avoid the policy and would  not be accepting Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim.
AXA have since arranged to refund  Mr and Mrs Ms premiums paid since August 2015.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend we uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He said he could 
see from the information provided by AXA that Mr M had entered into an arrangement 
regarding one of the judgments, and this demonstrated an awareness  of at least one of the 
CCJs. 
Ref: DRN76032162He also said from looking at the questions asked by their broker  prior to renewal  each year, 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  asked  if either  of them  had been subject to any CCJs  and it 
would be for the Insurer to decide  if they were material. As they werent disclosed, and 
AXAs underwriter confirmed they wouldnt have offered cover if they had been, our 
adjudicator said they hadnt acted unreasonably in avoiding the policy  and declining  the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with our adjudicator. They said Mr M was aware a claim had been 
made against him for one of the CCJs  but was unaware a CCJ had been  issued  as a result  
of admitting the claim. Mr and Mrs M reiterated  they never received any CCJs in the post,  
and there  had been a history of the post office not delivering to their property.
The complaint has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this means a lot to Mr and Mrs M and Im sorry to hear about the impact the 
fire, and things that have taken place since, have had on them and their family.
I want to assure them Ive read and considered everything theyve said carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take the fact my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues,  
and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. My role is to consider  the evidence  presented  
by Mr and Mrs M, and by AXA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based 
on the facts of the case.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M had a commercial policy, which was renewed with AXA in August 2015. 
Because of this the relevant law that I must consider is the Marine  Insurance Act 1906. This 
places a duty of utmost good faith on the parties  to an insurance  contract. The insured 
party is required to disclose every  circumstance they know,  or should have known, which  
would influence an insurer in deciding whether to underwrite  a risk or what premium to 
charge. This can be referred to as materiality  and inducement.
AXA has avoided Mr and Mrs Ms policy, and the underwriting manager has provided a 
statement confirming they wouldnt  have entered into the policy under any terms had they 
known the true information. The policy contains a clause which says the customer must 
disclose all facts and information that might  be relevant to their assessment of the risk, and 
that all statements made to them must be true and accurate. The policy conditions section 
also says if these conditions are not complied with, AXA may treat the policy as though it 
never existed, cancel the policy and refuse  to deal with a claim.
Ive seen a sample  copy of the statement of fact questionnaire Mr and Mrs Ms broker said 
they complete  with their customers each year. The broker said they completed the 
questionnaire with Mr and Mrs M annually. 
One of the questions asks if the customer has 'Ever been the subject of a County  Court  
Judgement (CCJ) and/or ever been cited in any unsatisfied court  judgements (or the Scottish
equivalent) in respect of debt as a private  individual or in connection with any business'?
Ref: DRN76032163I can see Mr and Mrs Ms broker discussed renewal  with AXA in August 2015, I think  its 
more likely than not they followed their usual  process of using the statement of fact 
questionnaire as Mr and Mrs M gave some  additional information  at the time. They 
mentioned some changes  to Mr and Mrs Ms gates, confirmed locked gates had been fitted 
to the entrance of the premises and said Mr and Mrs M had confirmed the sums insured 
were to stay the same. But there was no disclosure of anything related to CCJs.
So, what  I need to decide is whether it is more likely that not Mr and Mrs M were aware, or 
should have been aware, of the presence  of the CCJs and disclosed  them to AXA at the 
time of renewal.  
Mr M said he wasnt aware  a CCJ had been issued as a result of accepting a claim against  
him. But he said he was aware of the claim and accepted the claim so even if he was 
unaware of the outcome, I think Mr M wouldve been  reasonably  aware court action  had 
been started.  Because of this, I think this is information he should have made AXA aware of.
Mr and Mrs M said they never received any CCJs in the post  and have pointed to issues  
theyve experienced with post in the past, which they say could be related to the name of the 
property changing.  I can see historically  Mr and Mrs Ms property has been known by 
different names.
Ive also looked  at the CCJ,  sent to Mr M in 2014  and I can see it shows the road name of 
Mr and Mrs Ms property  is spelt slightly incorrect. So, its possible this couldve made a 
difference in them receiving  the CCJ in the post.
But AXA has provided a copy  of another CCJ from 2015. The address on the CCJ is an 
exact match to the address AXA has on file for Mr and Mrs M. It also matches the address  
provided on the electoral roll for Mr M since 2015.
So, taking everything  into account, I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve been reasonably aware of 
some CCJs  as Ive explained above, and this needed to be disclosed when renewing the 
policy.
And as such,  I dont  think AXA have been unreasonable  in concluding Mr M wouldve been 
reasonably aware  of at least one of these  CCJs. Therefore, I wont be interfering in AXAs 
decision to avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy and decline their claim. 
I can see AXA have made arrangements  to refund Mr and Mrs M the premiums they paid 
from the date of renewal  plus associated interest   I think  this is reasonable, so I dont think  
they need to do anything  more.
In their letter of November 2016, AXA also raised  concerns regarding Mr and Mrs M being 
underinsured as their investigations showed  the value of the claim far exceeded  the amount 
theyd declared  to be insured when the policy renewed. But as I dont think  they were  
unreasonable to avoid  the policy for non-disclosure of the CCJs, I dont think its necessary  
to comment on this here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN76032164Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7603216