K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made  on his Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA) legal 
expenses insurance  policy. He says it wasnt dealt with quickly  enough, which led to his 
claim becoming time barred. 
Mr M wants IPA to put things right. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2019, part of which  is copied below:
Mr M had a claim against the estate of barrister; the barrister had taken a payment from 
Mr M but then became  too ill to act for him and subsequently passed away.  Mr M was 
looking to recover the sum hed paid the barrister.  
The sum was paid in October 2011.  The barrister  advised Mr M he wasnt  going to be able to 
act for him on 13 March  2012. The limitation  for making a claim against the barrister was six 
years from the date Mr M became aware he wasnt going to receive the service  hed paid for. 
So the latest date he needed to bring  his claim by was 13 March 2018.
In April 2017 Mr M contacted IPAs  legal helpline to discuss his claim against the barrister. 
He was provided with advice  about  the limitation date being close and that hed need to 
bring his claim by 13 March 2018  in the small claims court.  Mr M asked  for the claim to be 
dealt with under his legal expenses insurance  policy. It was agreed a claim form would be 
sent to him but that hed need to complete that and send it back to his insurers  claims 
handlers. 
Mr M says he did complete and return the claim form in May 2017 but that he didnt hear 
back from IPA or their claims  handlers.  As a result he says he chased them by phone in 
December 2017.  IPA doesnt have  a record of that call. 
Nothing further happened until February  2018 when  Mr M says he submitted his claim again.  
IPA received the claim on 15 February. Five days later they asked for further  information  - 
including proof  of payment to the barrister. IPA received  everything  they needed from Mr M 
to progress his claim  by 8 March, after which  they sent instructions to a panel firm on 14 
March to assess the claim and report back. That panel firm got in touch with IPA by email on 
16 March. They explained they had a conflict of interest so couldnt act for Mr M but in any 
event the limitation  on the claim had passed  three  days earlier  so there wasnt  anything they 
couldve done to assist him.
IPA then passed Mr Ms claim to a second firm of solicitors who confirmed the position  in 
respect of the limitation.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
acknowledged that Mr M had brought his claim very late into the limitation period but thought  
that IPA was in a position to progress  it faster  so that protective proceedings couldve been  
issued before the limitation expired. Because of this he said that IPA should arrange for the 
merits of the claim to be assessed and if it had reasonable prospects of success, IPA should  
pay Mr M the value of the claim  itself together with £75 for the trouble and upset  caused  for 
the delays in progressing it.
Ref: DRN78992912IPA doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I dont think Mr Ms 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
When Mr M contacted IPAs legal helpline in April 2017 he was made aware  of the limitation 
relating to his claim and that hed need  to bring  a small claim in the county court  by 13 March  
2018. I appreciate  that Mr M wanted  help in doing this but I dont think he did enough to 
progress things in a way that would mean IPA had enough time to deal with the claim before 
the limitation expired.
Mr M says he sent back his claim form in May 2017  and then later chased IPA by telephone, 
seven months later but I havent seen anything  to support that. If Mr M had chased IPA by 
telephone in December 2017  and nothing further  had happened, Id have  expected him to 
make contact again, particularly in light of the approaching limitation date, which he was 
aware of.
And in this case, Mr M didnt get in touch with IPA for seven months after he said he 
submitted his claim. He then didnt make  contact with them again for a further  two months 
and one month before the limitation date. When he did so, he didnt draw  IPAs attention to 
the limitation or point out that it was urgent the matter  be reviewed by a solicitor well in 
advance of this date. I find this surprising because  Id have  expected him to be familiar with 
the time the claims  process  could  take, having submitted two legal expenses insurance 
claims to IPA in 2012 and 2015. 
Mr M has said he didnt pursue his claim for cover with IPA any sooner than February 2018 
because he was caring for his Mother.  But based on what  hes said,  he was still chasing the 
barristers chambers for return of his money  during this time. And he was aware  of the 
limitation date from as early as April 2017 so I wouldve  expected him to pursue his claim 
being dealt with sooner.
When reaching these  conclusions, Ive taken into account that the claim  itself was with the 
IPA when the limitation date was breached and there was a gap of six days  between IPA 
being in a position to send instructions to the panel firm and the instructions actually being 
sent. I dont think the time IPA took to review the information Mr M had sent in and instruct 
the panel firm after that was unreasonable in the circumstances or that they shouldve  been 
aware of the approaching limitation  at this point. There was certainly nothing in the claim 
form that made this obvious and IPA arent legally trained so they were reliant on the advice 
of legal professionals  to tell them this.
developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
IPA has confirmed it has nothing further  to add but it did want  the opportunity to comment  on 
anything else Mr M had to say. Mr M has made a number of submissions, which Ive 
summarised as follows:
Ref: DRN78992913Its not correct that IPA received  everything  they needed to progress his claim by 8 
March. IPA emailed Mr M on 20 February asking for information and that information was 
given to them immediately. On 5 March they asked for a different document which they 
received from Mr M on 7 March. They shouldve  asked  for everything on 20 February 
rather than making  multiple requests.
Its not correct that there was a gap of six days between IPA being in a position to send 
instructions to the panel firm and the instructions  actually being sent. They  had 21 days 
or 15 working days between IPA being in a position to send instructions to the panel  firm. 
And the case file itself was very small.
IPA shouldve picked  up on the limitation applicable to the claim when considering the 
claim form Mr M sent in. In that form he said the date he first became aware  of the 
problem or incident giving rise to the claim was 13 March 2012. Anyone looking  through  
the claim for IPA shouldve realised that the limitation for breach of contract claims is six 
years. Mr M has been informed by a legal advisor that nearly  all claims in law have a six 
year limitation.
He didnt chase  the barristers  chambers beyond April 2017 when he was told by his 
clerk they wouldnt help him further which is why he asked for help from IPA. Hes been 
providing 24 hour care for his Mother who has multiple medical  conditions  which  
prevented him from getting in touch sooner and this last year has been the toughest  yet. 
Mr M has enlisted the support of carers to deal with this complaint against IPA and make  
these submissions to the Ombudsman. 
Although IPAs claims handlers arent  legally trained they should be familiar  with the 
process as it forms part of their job. The onus is on IPA to train their staff to handle 
claims properly.
Mr M isnt legally trained so he was reliant on IPA to expedite his case. Its contrary to 
natural justice if hes left out of pocket. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Because Mr Ms comments havent  made  any difference to my decision,  I havent asked IPA 
for any further submissions or found  it necessary  to provide them with Mr Ms response for 
comment. 
Mr M doesnt agree with the timeline  I set out within my provisional decision.  In particular he 
feels IPA wouldve been in a position to progress his claim much sooner than they did. He 
says this is because  they asked him for information  on a piecemeal  basis. I accept that there  
were two requests  for information. On 20 February IPA asked Mr M for a copy  of the contract  
between him and the barrister he wanted  to claim against, correspondence with the barrister,  
a chronology/diary  of incidents including dates and any other  information  relevant to his 
claim. IPA received  information from Mr M in response to that request on 1 March. Four days 
later they asked for proof  of payment  of the sums he was claiming for. I appreciate that Mr M 
feels this delay wouldve  made the difference  between his claim  being  in limitation but I dont  
agree. IPA were entitled to go back to him for further information; their initial request for 
information included  any other information relevant to (Mr Ms) claim. Whilst IPA didnt 
specifically ask for proof of payment, Mr M might have provided that. I appreciate IPA 
realised this after he gave  them information but I dont  think this means they behaved 
unreasonably in going back  to him. In ordinary circumstances -  where a limitation isnt about 
to expire - this wouldnt have made  any difference to Mr M or caused any tangible delay in 
Ref: DRN78992914his claim being progressed. But even if I accept it did in this case,  I dont think it wouldve 
been reasonable for any panel firm instructed to consider  the claim, advise whether it had 
reasonable prospects of success and/or fell within the policy  terms and be in a position  to 
issue protective proceedings before the limitation expired. So either  way the claim was made 
very late in the day. 
And as Ive said before I dont think IPA shouldve  picked up on the fact that Mr Ms claim 
was about to be time barred just because he listed the date of the incident that he thought  
gave rise to the claim. I understand  Mr M feels that this wouldve been  simple enough for 
IPA to identify but I dont  agree with him. A lay persons  view of when a limitation date starts 
to run can be very different on legal analysis. Every  case is different so whilst the date Mr M 
cited mightve been correct in this case,  that doesnt  mean an insurer should rely on it 
without the benefit of legal advice. 
Mr M did actually  have  the benefit  of legal advice on the issue of the limitation  date which 
hed obtained  from IPAs legal helpline in April 2017. So he knew he was close  to a month 
away from being time barred from bringing his claim. Id have expected him to draw IPAs  
attention to this when  he made his claim and Im surprised he didnt. Had he done so and 
IPA delayed dealing  with his claim, I wouldve been  less inclined to say IPA did nothing  
wrong. But as matters stand and given Mr Ms knowledge of the limitation, I dont think I can 
say IPA did anything  wrong.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about not making his claim sooner than he did. But I still 
dont think that he was prevented from doing so because  of his circumstances. Mr M accepts 
he was chasing  the barristers  chambers for five years after he became aware he wasnt  
going to receive  the service hed paid for. He said he stopped  chasing  them  after five years. 
But that doesnt explain why he didnt make  a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy 
either before or after that point. And even  if he was caring for his Mother, he was still able to 
get in touch with IPA in May 2017  and again  in February 2018. Hes since  been in touch with 
this service to complain about how IPA have handled his claim, whilst still caring for his 
Mother.  For all of those reasons I dont think I can say he was prevented from bringing his 
claim to IPA sooner than February 2018.  And I think that had he done so he wouldnt have 
been time barred  from making a claim against  the estate of the late barrister.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Inter Partner  Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7899291