K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied unfair charges 
relating to damage when his finance agreement ended. He wants a refund of the charges.
background
Mr P tells us he acquired the vehicle in January 2014. At the end of the contract  period he 
handed the vehicle back. He says it was collected  in March 2018  and inspected  several days  
after collection. He subsequently received a demand for over £2,700.  He feels  the damage 
should be considered fair wear and tear and shouldnt  be charged.  Hes since  told us he 
thinks he returned the vehicle with under 28,000 miles on the odometer  but the inspection 
report show its done around 800 miles more. So he thinks  the damage may have been  done 
after collection.
VWFS issued  a final response letter. It said the vehicle had been  inspected by B, an 
independent company, in line with guidelines issued  by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA). VWFS said its removed some  charges and also offered a 
gesture of goodwill and reduced  the overall cost to £2,000.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He detailed each item 
of damage and explained why he felt it was fair for VWFS to apply the charges. I wont 
repeat these details  as both parties have  seen them. And he felt Mr P was aware he could 
have arranged his own repairs.  He didnt think the charges were  unfair.
Mr P didnt agree and said he didnt think VWFS had acted fairly or in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the finance  agreement.  He wanted an ombudsman  has been  asked 
to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr P has experienced the degree of disappointment and frustration which is 
apparent from his complaint. And I understand it must have been unpleasant receiving a 
large bill for charges  at the end of what seems otherwise  to have been a satisfactory 
contract period.  Especially so as VWFS  took the charges from his account whilst the 
complaint was ongoing. But as its refunded  them and recognised its error with a gesture of 
goodwill I think that is a satisfactory resolution  of this issue. It doesnt have any bearing  on 
whether the charges were  fairly  applied.
I should emphasise that where evidence is unclear or incomplete - as some of it is here - I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  And whilst Ive looked at everything Ive 
been sent if I dont  mention something specifically its not because Ive not taken it on board. 
Its simply I dont think I need to deal with it separately in order to reach  what  I think  is the 
correct decision.
Mr P has set out how he thinks I should interpret various terms and conditions - and hes 
made reference to what a layman would think.  Apart  from it not being possible to know - 
theres likely  to be range of opinion - the test Im required  to apply is pre-determined.
 
Ref: DRN72241632This service is an informal resolution service  and not a court. We are required to make  
decisions on the basis of rules laid down in statute  and by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). In particular under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
DISP 3.6.1: The ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in his
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 In considering  what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case,
the ombudsman  will take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations
(b)regulators rules, guidance  and standards
(c)codes of practice and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at the
relevant time.
So I dont  apply the law directly but I do take it into account. And my decision is based upon 
what I consider fair and reasonable.  
Apart from what the parties  have told me Ive seen evidence of the collection report and the 
inspection report provided by B. This inspection was conducted  several days after the 
vehicle was collected. The mileage upon collection  is shown as 28,727  - theres 
photographic evidence of the odometer. And upon delivery as 28,846. The mileage upon 
delivery is identical with that shown on the date of inspection. So theres no evidence  the 
vehicle was used  in the period between delivery  to the inspection site and the date of 
inspection. And the difference  in mileage between collection and delivery is little more than 
100 miles.  Its highly unlikely the damage evidenced  in the inspection photographs  would  
have been caused over such  a short distance.  Particularly as the vehicle is damaged in 
several different  areas. So I think its more probable than not that all the damage identified 
during the inspection was present at the time of collection.
The investigator gave  a detailed summary  of the inspection report  and Ive also seen the 
photographs. I think that summary was a fair reflection of what  was contained in the report  
and the photographs which accompanied it.
Ive reached the conclusion  that the damage  which has been  charged is identifiable from the 
photographs. And its outside  BVRLA guidelines. These  guidelines are designed  to provide 
some consistency and offer a means of assessing  damage using a fixed  standard.
Im entitled  to have  regard  for what I think is good  industry practice in applying  these 
guidelines. And I think the damage for which Mr P has been charged is not to be considered 
as fair wear and tear.
Im aware Mr P doesnt think VWFS has acted in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
But Ive not been provided with any persuasive  evidence to support this contention. As the 
owner of the vehicle  VWFS is entitled to do as it pleases with the vehicle after the end of the 
contract. So it was entitled to sell it - or dispose of it in any way it chose.
Ref: DRN72241633Im of the view Mr P had ample opportunity to have the vehicle repaired himself. He knew  
when the contract  was due to end and VWFS had sent a reminder  in the weeks  beforehand.
Whilst it is often  the case that inspections are carried out at the time of collection  - that didnt 
happen here. There is a report about certain details  of the collection - but thats not the 
inspection report detailing  the damage. 
And although Mr P has referred to a recent  MOT and service  as showing the vehicle was in 
good condition  - Ive not seen evidence of this. Id also say that neither item would address 
the cosmetic damage which  some of the charges relate to such  as scratches and paint 
chips. And a MOT is solely  a test of legal  standards relating to specific  items of 
roadworthiness. It is not designed  to be a report on a vehicles overall condition.
In summary,  I think VWFS has acted  fairly  in this matter.  Its reviewed the charges and made 
appropriate deductions. And its offered an apology and a gesture of goodwill - amounting  to 
about £200 - for an error it did make.  So whilst I know  it will come  as a disappointment to Mr 
P Im not going to ask VWFS to remove any further  charges. I think  theyve been applied  in 
line with the relevant terms  and conditions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7224163