K820x#14complaint
Mr H is represented. He held a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) with Dentons 
Pension Management Limited  (Dentons) and says it is responsible for the following:
Absence of an advice  letter, key features document,  breakdown  of initial  costs  and 
schedule of ongoing costs associated with establishing  the SIPP and with the 
commercial property  joint purchase that was the purpose for the SIPP.  [issue  1]
Mismanagement of the lease, the initial rent-free  arrangement  and the collection of 
rent for the commercial property.  [issue 2]
Overcharging fees and applying fees for disputed work. [issue  3]
Delays and overcharged fees associated with the purchase  of the remainder share  of 
the commercial property (the partial  sale). [issue 4]
Delays and overcharged fees associated with the transfer-out  of the SIPP  from 
Dentons to a new provider. [issue 5]
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she noted as follows:
That the background to the complaint features a joint venture between  Mr H, his wife 
and a third party  individual  (an Independent Financial Adviser   the IFA) in which 
they used a trust based arrangement and their individual  SIPPs  to jointly  purchase 
the commercial property; a joint venture in which they intended  to rent out [in lease 
arrangements] the property for his and the IFAs separate business use; and a 
venture in which the IFA had negotiated an initial  rent free period for one year, with 
annual rent of £15,000 applying thereafter and liability for rent split equally between  
him and the IFA. 
That the background also features a breakdown  of relations with the IFA after the 
purchase; Mr Hs dissatisfaction with Dentons thereafter; his application to transfer-
out the SIPP in November  2017;  a partial  sale of the commercial  property  in the 
same month; his in-specie  transfer-out request in September 2018; and completion  
of the transfer-out in November 2018.
In terms of issue 1, a third-party  firm  and not Dentons  advised Mr H on the setting 
up of the SIPP, so Dentons is not accountable for the advice  related  aspects  of this 
issue. His adviser  and not Dentons   was also responsible  for advising him on the 
associated costs  and there is evidence that he was aware of Dentons  fees (and the 
costs of setting up the SIPP)  at the outset.
With regards to issue 2, there  is evidence  that Dentons liaised with the solicitors  
involved in the lease and sent them a fully signed copy  of the lease document and 
declaration of trust, after required  amendments,  on 29 July 2013; and evidence that 
Mr Hs adviser  was reminded of this in January, March and October 2014; so 
Dentons appears to have  managed the lease matter in a timely fashion.
With regards to issue 3, there  is evidence  that Dentons fees were clear  and that its 
fees structure provided for extra charges (at an hourly rate) where additional 
administrative work had been  performed. That was reasonable, the fee structure was 
transparent (and was reflected in the application  form used for the SIPP)  and 
Ref: DRN72364782Dentons could  not reasonably have been  expected  to set out the costs  for future and 
unknown additional  work. Evidence  of the additional  work that was done by Dentons  
does not suggest it was unreasonable to apply the extra charges.
In terms of issue 4, overall  evidence  suggests that the delay in the partial sale was 
not caused by Dentons.  Instead, there was a delay in the solicitors  on both sides  of 
the sale reaching an agreement and it also appears that a new occupational lease 
had to be put in place  before the transaction could proceed.
A similar finding applies  to issue 5. The delays do not appear to have been caused 
by Dentons. It would not have been  unusual for the transfer of a SIPP (in specie and 
with an underlying property investment) to be complex and time consuming. The 
transferee firm required the clearing of outstanding rent on the property before it 
would accept the transfer and Dentons  had to take an arms length approach in 
collecting the rental income. There is also evidence  of business rating and Energy 
Performance Certificate issues related to the property  and the delayed  transfer.
Dentons position on the complaint is mainly  as follows:
It too denies responsibility for issue 1, given  that it played no role in advising Mr H on 
setting up the SIPP. 
It echoes the investigators finding  on issue 2, with regards to the lease matter. In 
terms of the rent-free arrangement and rent collection aspects of this issue, a one 
year rent free period was extended  to both tenants from the property purchase on 31 
July 2013; the £15,000 per year rent (split equally between  both tenants) was agreed  
in August 2014 after a Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) valuation;  the 
first request for payment of rent from Mr H (for his share)  was for the period 
beginning 25 May 2016, given that he (or a member of his staff)  still occupied the 
premises at the time; and he was never  required to pay any rent he did not owe as a 
tenant. Rent owed  by the IFA was addressed separately.
It echoes the investigators findings  on issues 3, 4 and 5. Its work  schedule evidence 
provides a basis for the additional  work  it had to perform  as cited  by the 
investigator  and history of chase related work  (because of delays by Mr H, his wife 
and the solicitors) features in this respect.  Such work inevitably impacted upon  fees.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion. His representative commented, mainly, as 
follows:
Mr H wishes  to pursue the advice  related  issue 1 through the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
He retains his claim that the fees applied by Dentons were substantially more  than 
the fees it quoted.
He retains his claim that delays were caused  by Dentons making and repeating  
unnecessary requests  for extra information  during the legal related work.  It is this set 
of unnecessary requests that it used  to justify the extra work it claims and the extra 
charges it applied. It is this claim (and charges) that he disputes. Had Dentons  made  
the correct and relevant enquiries  at the outset this disputed extra work would not 
Ref: DRN72364783have happened  and evidence has been  sought  from the solicitors   and will be 
shared with this service   in order to prove this.
It is not disputed  that outstanding rent had to be paid in issue 5, the point to note is 
that it was the IFA who refused  to pay his share  of the rent and it was Dentons  who 
chose to do nothing  to address that.
Dentons fees had always been  questioned  and it consistently sought to evade 
enquiries in this respect. Mr H is yet to receive,  from Dentons, a full and meaningful  
breakdown and explanation of incurred costs. It also created opportunities for itself to 
apply avoidable  charges  such as the additional  annual  charge applied because  of 
the delay it caused  in transferring out the SIPP. In addition,  it made deductions of 
charges without authority to do so, given  that the fees were  in dispute and the 
dispute had been  referred to this service.  Dentons should have suspended the 
deductions pending our determination  of the complaint.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator for similar reasons. I do not uphold  the complaint.
Issue 1
The investigators finding on this issue appears  to have been accepted, at least implicitly, by 
Mr H and his representative.  His decision to pursue the issue  through the FSCS suggests 
this. For the sake of completeness, and if he considers that the matters  summarised above 
under issue  1 remain to be determined in the complaint, my decision is that those  matters  
have been misdirected to Dentons  and that it bears no responsibility for them.  
Dentons was the SIPP provider. It did not recommend the SIPP  to Mr H, it did not have 
responsibility for advising him on the SIPPs suitability in terms of its features, initial and 
ongoing costs  and/or the underlying commercial property investment intended for it. In the 
course of an adviser  providing such advice Mr H could have expected to receive, from the 
adviser, an advice letter  with advice and information (and associated documentation) on 
these aspects. Dentons was not that adviser.  I have not seen evidence of a failure by it to 
make information about the SIPP available at the time and, as the investigator noted, Mr H 
appears to have had information about its fees.
Issue 2
The 2013  joint venture arrangement was driven by the plan to acquire  and, primarily, lease 
the commercial property  with the IFA having  a 50% stake, Mr H having a stake of 20% and 
his wife having a stake of 30%. There appears to have been a secondary plan to exploit 
development potential in the property in the future. As the investigator  noted, a breakdown of 
relations with the IFA followed and I have seen correspondence from 2015 that shows this.
The arrangement featured  Mr H, his wife and the IFA as individual  members  and trustees  of 
their respective SIPP schemes  and Dentons as the professional trustee  of the schemes; 
Ref: DRN72364784featured the same four as registered  owners  of the joint venture commercial property; 
included notice from Dentons to the conveyancing solicitors, in a letter  dated  28 April 2013,  
that because two of the SIPP members were also to be tenants of the property  HMRC rules  
required that the tenancy be operated on an arms length basis,  so the rent reflected in the 
lease(s) had to be determined by an independent  rental valuation from an approved  RICS  
surveyor; and began, after the purchase, with effort to put in place requisite lease and 
declaration of trust.
There is evidence of Dentons sending, to the solicitors, its completed  and signed  versions  of 
the lease and declaration  of trust in July 2013,  with the need thereafter for the other trustees 
to complete and sign their parts. Evidence also suggests that Dentons  heard no further on 
the matter until 2016  when, in February that year, it enquired with the solicitors whether (or 
not) both documents had been fully executed at the time  which  the solicitors affirmed  in 
their response. However, the need  for two separate occupational leases for the property  to 
reflect the tenancy split  remained  unresolved in 2016 and there is correspondence from 
that year that shows this. I have not seen  enough to conclude, on balance,  that Dentons  was 
the cause of the problem  or of the lack of a solution.  The breakdown  in relations with the 
IFA/third SIPP member appears  to have been a factor.
As Dentons says,  rent was applied from 2016  onwards and there is evidence  of its notice to 
Mr H about his (or his staffs) occupation  of the premises giving rise to liability  for rent. He 
was invoiced only for his share of the rent and the IFAs liability  in this respect  was 
addressed separately.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that available evidence supports the allegation that 
Dentons mismanaged  the leasing arrangements for the property or caused delays (or 
problems) in those arrangements. The investigator  invited any available evidence  to the 
contrary, but none appears to have  been  submitted. 
Issue 3
Further below, I address the allegation that Dentons created opportunities to charge  fees by 
causing delays   and evidence does  not support that allegation. I also have  not seen 
evidence that it charged  Mr H for work  it did not do or for work  unrelated  to him. He and his 
representative have  had the opportunity to highlight specific facts  and evidence  to establish 
this claim (beyond dispute, given  that it is a payment related issue) and that does not appear 
to have been done. I accept that he is strongly  in doubt about Dentons  fees.  There is 
correspondence to support the previous enquiries in this respect  that the representative has 
referred to. However, this also includes responses from Dentons in which  it addressed 
queries about  its fees and gave some  breakdowns  (including within its invoices).  
It is worth noting that the background to this case  includes a pursuit  by Dentons for fees that 
appeared to remain  unpaid  over a period of time. That pursuit (which inevitably relates to the 
argument that Dentons should have suspended collection of fees) is not a matter for me to 
determine and I do not do so. However, correspondence from Dentons  in which  it chased  for 
payment shows that it was compelled by that chase to repeat references  to its fees and to 
the work  it performed in relation to them. There is correspondence in which  it offered to 
elaborate on the explanation behind its work. I consider this relevant to the allegation that 
Dentons avoided  explaining its charges. That does not appear to have been the case.
The matter  that remains is whether  (or not) Dentons charged for work  at rates or on terms 
that differed  from the terms and fee schedule that applied to its work. Overall  and on 
Ref: DRN72364785balance, I consider that the crux of Mr Hs complaint in this issue has more to do with the 
extent to which he was informed about fees and charges at the outset  and less, if anything,  
to do with the argument that Dentons overcharged him. The quote below from his 
representatives email  to Dentons, about its charges, in November 2016  suggests that he 
and his representative might have the same insight  on the matter.
[Mr H] doesnt  understand  why he has incurred anything outside  of establishment and 
annual admin  fees  I have already  highlighted that if [Dentons]  made  charges  within  [its] 
remit then the issue  of paying fees he wasnt aware  of would be the fault of his IFA non-
disclosure rather than [Dentons].
I have not seen evidence of any specific fee or charge applied  by Dentons to Mr H which 
was beyond its remit to apply  that remit defined by its fees related terms and schedule.
Issue 4
Dentons wrote to Mr H and his wife in July 2016 to confirm it had learnt about the partial  sale 
plan  or, their plan to buy the IFAs interest in the commercial property. It set out information  
about the matter  it needed from them and issues that had to be resolved prior to the 
purchase (including RICS rental and capital valuations,  rent arrears and the occupational 
lease matter). Then there is evidence that suggests exchange on the purchase was 
expected to conclude in January 2017 and an email from Dentons to Mr Hs representative 
in the same month explained that it had experienced difficulties  in receiving updates/contact 
from solicitors  on both sides, that it was awaiting presentation  of the contract in the 
transaction and that the matter of unpaid rent remained  an unresolved issue. It also 
mentioned the matter  of its unpaid fees.
There was correspondence between the solicitors  on both sides  of the transaction  into late 
2017. Overall, their contents do not suggest  any delays caused by Dentons, and I consider 
that they would probably have stressed such delays if they existed. Overall  and on balance, I 
do not consider  that there is enough  evidence to support  the allegation that Dentons delayed 
the transaction. As I addressed above, Dentons  applied fees as set out in its terms and fee 
schedule (including  fees for additional  work). I have not seen evidence that it charged, on 
those or on any other terms or schedule, for work related to the purchase that it did not do.
Issue 5
Similar considerations apply to this issue and I endorse  and incorporate  into this decision  
the findings made by the investigator.  In a nutshell,  the SIPP transfer  appears,  mainly, to 
have been delayed by a number of key loose ends  associated with the overall status of the 
commercial property and of the SIPP  and of their fitness to be transferred to  and received 
by  the new provider. I have  not seen evidence that Dentons caused those loose ends or 
obstructed their resolution. I do not consider  it necessary  to go as far as to identify  where 
fault appears to have  rested. It is enough  to say that, on balance and contrary  to what  has 
been alleged,  the facts  do not show Dentons delaying the transfer in order to charge another  
years annual fee or delaying it in order to create opportunities to charge other fees or 
neglecting its role in the rent payment issue.
Conclusion
In considering Mr Hs complaint I find another quote from his representative  from its email  
to Dentons on 7 November 2017   insightful.  
Ref: DRN72364786[Mr H] has many justifiable  grievances  about how his pension has been handled in the last 
few years and whilst this stems  from  his adviser  he is still left in a very difficult position. 
[my emphasis]
My overall view of Mr Hs complaint issues is that, on balance, they too stem  from advice  (or 
lack of) and from what appears to have been  overlapping initial  advice (or influence) from 
both the third party adviser and the IFA  with the latter perhaps not being a good  source  of 
independent advice given that he was a part of the joint venture with Mr H and his wife. In 
any case, and as I said above,  Dentons  bears no advisory responsibility.
I do not suggest that Dentons was remote to the events that took place in the complaint 
issues. It was not, and correspondence shows its presence in the different problems Mr H 
(and his wife and his representative)  sought  to resolve. However,  the point to note is the lack 
of evidence showing, on balance, that Dentons caused those problems or obstructed  their 
resolution.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 8 February 2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7236478