K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Js credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs Js main complaint is that Bank of Scotland failed to explain the policy properly and it 
was added without  her knowledge. She also told us that PPI wasnt something  she needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mrs J was eligible for the PPI when  she took it out.
I find Bank of Scotland made Mrs J aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose 
to take it. She signed separately  in the PPI box on the credit  card application form to 
have the insurance  added on, making  it clear that she wanted  to have the policy.  There 
was a No option on the form that she couldve signed instead if she hadnt wanted PPI 
at the time. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her.
Bank of Scotland told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from the date 
Mrs J took out PPI. But it has provided  a policy document which was in use afterwards  
so I think its likely  that in all main  respects  the policy that Mrs J took out wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions.
Its possible some of the information  Bank  of Scotland gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But Mrs J chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. Mrs J told us she was entitled to 6 months  full sick pay, 
followed by 6 months half sick pay. But the policy  wouldve paid more  than her minimum 
credit card repayments in addition to this sick pay for up to 12 months  per claim if she 
couldnt work, giving  her a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially when she 
wouldve only been on half pay after 6 months off work.  And it wouldve paid out if she 
lost her job unexpectedly. She doesnt  appear  to have had significant other means  she 
could have relied on. 
Ref: DRN76551662PPI wouldve paid out in addition to redundancy money. This wouldve protected any 
lump sum Mrs J mightve got giving her more  financial security.  So I can understand why 
someone with redundancy benefits would  still want  to have PPI as well. 
Although she was eligible for death in service  benefit from her employer, as well as a 
pension, PPI provided a different  sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances.
Taking everything into account,  I think that the PPI offered Mrs J useful benefits. 
Mrs J wasnt  affected by any of the main  exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
reasonably priced and apparently  affordable when she signed up to it. It was open  to 
Mrs J to cancel the policy at any time if she decided she didnt want  to pay for PPI. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mrs J wouldve made  a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.  
This means  I dont  find that Mrs J has lost out as a result of anything that Bank  of Scotland 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7655166