K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Nationwide Building Society (when it was trading as Lambeth  Building Society) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
To keep  things simpler, as Nationwide Building Society is responsible  for dealing with this 
complaint, Ill just refer in my decision to Nationwide from now on. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 1997. At the start, Mrs M 
paid an annual premium  for the policy. The policy protected her mortgage  monthly  
repayments in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Having the policy for at least five years was a condition of the mortgage Mrs M took out. But 
Nationwide still had a duty to give Mrs M enough  clear information so she was able to decide 
whether to take out the policy. And Nationwide shouldve also made Mrs M aware of the 
main features of the policy  including the cost.
When she took out the PPI, Mrs M had to pay for the policy  each year with an annual  
premium which was added to her mortgage.  This means  it was effectively like taking out 
extra borrowing  each year - and Mrs M was charged  interest  on each premium until the end 
of the term of the mortgage. 
This was an important term which in my view its reasonable to expect Nationwide to have 
explained clearly  to Mrs M before she agreed to take the cover.  I havent been  shown that it 
did this well enough. And Mrs M has told us she was on a very low income, so I think  fully 
understanding the cost wouldve been particularly important for her. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything that Nationwide has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. 
Ive looked at whether the information Nationwide gave Mrs M about PPI when it sold her the 
policy was good  enough.
Ref: DRN75006002Nationwide suggests  that because this mortgage  was arranged by estate  agents  and the 
mortgage illustration  showed that PPI was mandatory, it was discussed  with Mrs M (or 
shouldve been  at the point of arranging the mortgage). And I accept thats possible.
But I cant assume that the estate agent  wouldve explained the PPI to Mrs M  she says it 
wasnt mentioned  at all. And it looks to me like a PPI application was sent to Mrs M to 
complete and return following the mortgage  application. So I think its fair and reasonable to 
say that Nationwide sold this PPI. 
Nationwide refers to the fixed rate mortgage leaflet and mortgage illustrations Mrs M was 
given, to support  its view that she wouldve  been aware of the ongoing PPI cost. And I can 
see that one of the special conditions in the mortgage offer Nationwide made to Mrs M says 
that the premiums  will be debited to your Mortgage  Account  annually  
Also, I accept that Nationwide  mightve  made Mrs M aware how much shed be charged  
each year. But this probably wouldnt have helped Mrs M to understand how much  PPI might 
actually work  out costing  her overall. I dont know what Nationwide told Mrs M about the PPI 
 Nationwide  hasnt  provided anything to show how, or if, it explained the PPI cost, over and 
above what it says in the paperwork. And I dont think  it wouldve been clear from looking at 
the paperwork what the true cost of the PPI was likely to be over the mortgage term.  
Ive taken into account that Nationwide says that the policy was included as part of the 
mortgage deal Mrs M chose  there was at least one other  option  Nationwide offered her 
that didnt include  PPI. So Nationwide says if she hadnt wanted the policy she couldve 
chosen an alternative Nationwide mortgage.  And thats probably right. But the onus was on 
Nationwide to provide Mrs M with enough  clear information for her to be able to choose the 
mortgage deal that was right for her. And without clearer  cost information about the PPI, 
which Nationwide shouldve provided,  I dont think she was in a fair position to do this.  
I can see that the cover mightve proved useful for her, but on balance  I dont think  Mrs M 
wouldve agreed to take the policy had Nationwide clearly explained to her what  the true cost 
of the PPI might be. As a result, I think shes lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. 
In coming to my view Im aware that the charging  basis of this policy  was later changed. It 
became a monthly premium policy  so from that point Mrs M wouldnt have had to pay extra 
mortgage interest for the PPI. But what happened  later doesnt affect my view on whether 
the policy was mis-sold  when it was taken out. 
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mrs M in the position  shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
When the premiums were charged annually, the cost of the PPI was added  to Mrs Ms 
mortgage. So her mortgage was bigger than it should have been. She paid more than she 
should have each month, and it cost more to repay  the mortgage than it would have. So 
Mrs M needs  to get back the extra she paid. 
In relation to the annual premiums, Nationwide  should:
-Work  out and pay Mrs M the difference between what  she paid each month  on 
the mortgage and what she wouldve paid each month  if these premiums  hadnt 
been added  to the mortgage.
Ref: DRN75006003-Work  out and pay Mrs M the difference between what  it cost to pay off the 
mortgage and what it would have cost to pay it off without PPI.
-Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs M paid each month  from when she 
paid it until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
And for the period when Mrs M was paying  a monthly premium, Nationwide should:
-Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month  for the PPI
-Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes Mrs M.  
Nationwide Building  Society should  set out its working so Mrs M can see how it has 
calculated the amount  to pay her. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7500600