K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs C are unhappy with QIC Europe Ltd. It provides their home insurance but has 
avoided the cover (treated  it as though  its never existed) and, by association, declined  a 
claim they made after a theft, when it found out they had nearly  £60,000 worth of jewellery  in 
their possession which had been  stolen.
background
Between 1994 and 2007 Mr S and Mrs C bought  several items of jewellery. The total cost of 
jewellery at that time was around  £17,000.  I believe one of those items of jewellery, at that 
time, cost in excess of £2,000.
In 2015 Mr S and Mrs C arranged cover  with QIC. They said £10,000 was enough to cover  
all valuable  items in their home. They also said no individual valuable item was worth in 
excess of £2,000. The policy renewed in 2016  and 2017. During  the 2017 renewal Mr S 
spoke to QIC. It asked him to confirm if £10,000 was still enough to cover  all valuables and 
that no individual item was worth more than £2,000. Mr S, regarding  both issues, said that 
was still the case.
In 2018 the policy renewed again.  There was no phone call this time but renewal documents 
were produced (as they had been in the years before as well). The documents  asked Mr S 
and Mrs C to review  their information and tell it if anything was wrong or which  needed 
updating. Mr S and Mrs C didnt contact QIC.
In August  2018  Mr S and Mrs C were burgled.  Damage was done to the home and items, 
including all of their jewellery, were stolen.  QIC appointed a jewellery  specialist to assess  the 
loss in respect of jewellery. The specialist noted  that Mr S had a receipt for every item of 
jewellery, and whilst he had changed his name since  the receipts were issued, he had proof  
of the name change  too. The specialist valued  the items stolen.  It noted  ten of them  were  
(now) worth more  than £2,000, three being  in excess of £5,000  and that, in total, it would 
cost in excess of £30,000  (if all of the items worth more than £2,000 were limited  to a value 
of only £2,000)  to replace  the items. 
QIC reviewed  the specialists report. It referred to its underwriting  criteria (the details by 
which it assesses all applications  for cover) and noted that if a prospective policyholder tells 
it they need more than £15,000 to cover  all their valuables,  or if any valuable  is worth more 
than £5,000, then it wont offer them a policy. QIC asked Mr S and Mrs C why they hadnt 
told it of the correct values. 
Mr S and Mrs C said they must  have discussed their jewellery when they arranged cover, so 
the policy must have  been mis-sold.  They  also said they had answered accurately according  
to what they knew,  and the item worth more  than £2,000 (when originally purchased) had 
been a genuine oversight, items had been bought around twenty  years  ago.
QIC said it was avoiding  the cover and this meant  the claim wouldnt be paid,  however,  it 
accepted that Mr S and Mrs C hadnt acted deliberately  to mislead it, so it said it would 
refund their premiums. Mr S and Mr C complained to us. Amongst other things they said QIC 
should at least  pay the claim for non-jewellery items, including building damage.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but felt QIC had acted fairly and reasonably.  She 
noted that Mr S and Mrs C had receipts for all items  and felt they had a duty to take 
Ref: DRN71887062reasonable care when  answering QICs questions to make  sure accurate answers were 
given. She said that would have been the time for Mr S and Mr C to refer to the receipts and 
make sure they told QIC what their items  were actually worth. She said,  if they had, even  
just based on the original  purchase price for all the jewellery items, and having seen QICs 
underwriting criteria, QIC wouldnt have  offered  them  cover. And that meant its actions had 
been fair and the claim, in its entirety,  fell away as a result.
Mr S and Mrs C said they accepted the specialists valuation but maintained that only one 
item had been  worth  more than £2,000. They accepted that the answers theyd given were 
wrong and explained they hadnt  reviewed the receipts in twenty years.  Their  complaint was 
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for any upset this causes Mr S and Mrs C, Im also satisfied that 
QIC acted fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why.
There is legislation in place which  sets out the rights and duties of both the prospective or 
renewing policyholder  and the insurer when policies are arranged  and renewed.  This 
legislation is called the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act (CIDRA).
In essence, CIDRA  says that the prospective or renewing policyholder has to take 
reasonable care to answer accurately any questions put by the insurer.  And if reasonable 
care isnt taken, inaccurate answers  are given  and those  inaccurate answers  make  the 
insurer do something it wouldnt  otherwise do, when the insurer  finds out the true 
information, it can act as it always would have done.
Here Mr S and Mrs C did give QIC inaccurate information about the jewellery they owned. 
And Im satisfied that if QIC had been  given more accurate information, even just the total 
original purchase price of all the jewellery  without applying any increases for appreciation,  
QIC wouldnt have offered cover. That means that if that inaccurate information  was given by 
Mr S and Mrs C as a result of them  failing  to take reasonable  care, QICs actions are fair and 
reasonable  because  it has acted  as it is allowed to by the relevant legislation.  
Mr S and Mrs C said they hadnt reviewed  the receipts for twenty years. But, crucially, they 
still possessed those  receipts and were  able to supply them when they needed  to make their 
claim. So they could, when  asked  the relevant questions by QIC during their application and 
at subsequent renewals, have paused their application and checked the receipts to ensure 
they gave an accurate  answer. I think it would have  been reasonable for them  do so. 
Therefore, I think they failed to take reasonable care to give an accurate answer, and their 
failure caused QIC to offer a policy  it otherwise wouldnt have done.  
I accept, as did QIC, that Mr S and Mrs C didnt  set out to mislead it. But, nevertheless, their 
answers did just that. And the only allowance  the legislation makes for situations  like this is 
that the insurer has to refund the premium (if the act had been deliberate the legislation 
allows the premium to be kept by the insurer).  
QIC is the insurer/underwriter for this policy. It isnt clear whether it was responsible  for the 
sale which occurred in 2015. In any event, Mr S and Mrs C confirmed the (inaccurate) value 
Ref: DRN71887063of their jewellery in subsequent renewals, so Im satisfied that how the policy was sold 
doesnt affect QICs right to act as it has done in respect of the cover  it provided only as a 
result of incorrect information being given  to it by Mr S and Mrs C.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against QIC Europe  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7188706