K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about OANDA Europe  Limited.  She says she suffered a financial  loss as a 
result of not being  able to deposit funds in to her trading accounts  by card.  Shes also 
unhappy with how her accounts  have  been  administered. 
background
Ms B had trading accounts with OANDA. And on the 4 and 5 January 2018 she had 
difficulties depositing  funds. She complained to OANDA  about this as she says she had to 
reduce her trading positions to prevent a margin call, which caused her to suffer  a financial 
loss. 
Ms B also raised various other concerns about how her accounts have been administered.  
This included OANDA only communicating with her in English, a lack of response to her 
emails and difficulties  contacting her relationship manager, non-acceptance of pre-paid 
cards and also restrictions on the withdrawal of funds  from her account. Shes also unhappy 
about OANDAs  decision to reduce the amount of leverage she could use on positions 
ahead of major events,  and that theyd sent her a second email requesting her to update  her 
personal information - threatening  to close her account if it wasnt provided - even though 
shed already done so. 
OANDA responded  to Ms Bs concerns.  They explained that Ms B had made  four successful 
deposits on 4 January  but the fifth attempt was declined by the card issuer.  Their payment 
system showed this was due to insufficient  funds and subsequent  attempts were also 
declined as they apply a limit to the number of card payments  attempted within  a 24 hour 
period, as a fraud prevention tool and to protect  clients. And they dont  advertise the 
maximum number  of attempts to preserve the validity of this control. They also explained 
that it was still possible  for Ms B to have funded her accounts by PayPal or bank transfer 
during this time.
They did however accept that there had been  misunderstandings on their part. They 
apologised for sending a chaser  email for her to update  her personal information and also for 
the time it took to respond to her about the card problems she experienced. But they didnt 
think they had acted in a wrongful manner and didnt compensate  Ms B.
Ms B brought her complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. As Ms B didnt 
accept the investigators  assessment, the matter has been passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons. 
Id like to firstly explain that I know Ms B has raised a number  of issues. And so, while I hope 
she doesnt take this as a discourtesy, Ill be addressing what I consider are the key issues  
of the complaint. So if I dont mention a particular point it isnt because  I havent seen it or 
thought about it. But rather its just that I dont feel the need to explain it in my decision, 
which is just a reflection  of the informal nature of our service.
difficulty funding account
Ref: DRN75505522OANDA has provided the deposit history for Ms Bs account for the 4 and 5 January. It 
shows Ms B initially made four successful  deposits  using her pre-paid card.  But the fifth 
deposit was declined and from the evidence that OANDA has provided, it seems this was 
due to insufficient funds. Ms B then subsequently  had a further  11 deposit attempts declined  
using the same card before she tried using a different card.  But this was also declined 
because OANDA apply  a limit to the number of card payments that can be attempted within  
a 24 hour limit as a security measure. 
Although I realise  why Ms B is unhappy  with this security  measure  as it stopped  her from 
depositing funds  by card, I think its a reasonable action for OANDA to take to protect their 
clients. This is because activity on an account which is out of the ordinary may be a sign of 
potential fraud or vulnerability. So putting  a temporary block in place after several  payments  
have been attempted in a short space of time is a reasonable  method for OANDA to ensure 
theyre genuine transactions. I understand Ms B has questioned  why this limit isnt 
mentioned in the account terms. But given that this measure is in place to prevent fraud, I 
dont think OANDA is acting unfairly  by not advertising it as this could expose  them  and their 
clients to greater risk.
Ms B emailed  OANDA  multiple times about  this problem  at the time. But these emails  were 
unfortunately flagged as duplicates which delayed the matter being looked  in to. 
Consequently OANDA didnt respond  to the problem  until their letter  of 23 January. Theyve 
apologised to Ms B for the time it took to respond  to the card problems she experienced.
I likewise think this was too long and that OANDA ought to have responded sooner. But Ive 
considered the impact  of this on Ms B. And OANDA has confirmed that their security  
measure wouldve been in place for 48 hours.  So this was only a short term restriction and I 
think even if they have looked  in to it sooner, its possible it wouldve already been  removed  
by the time they responded.
Ive also looked  at Ms Bs trading activity during this time. I think its important to note that 
the trades she carried out on 5 January were in the early morning. So given Ms B only 
reported this problem to OANDA the day before, I wouldnt necessarily  have expected them 
to have been able to resolve this issue prior to Ms B closing her positions. And as Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for OANDA to put a block  on card payments when they did, it 
follows that I dont  think theyre responsible for the financial loss that Ms B suffered as a 
result. 
I think its also relevant to add that there  were  several funding options available  to Ms B at 
that time.  So she couldve deposited funds  in to her account by a different method to mitigate 
the risk of having  to close out her positions.  Ive not seen anything  to show Ms B attempted 
to do this.
I appreciate Ms B was trying to deposit funds in to her account to allow her to manage her 
positions. And when  she wasnt able to do so she contacted OANDA  about this. I think was 
reasonable in the circumstances. So while I sympathise with her situation, as she says she 
suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened,  I dont think this was because  OANDA 
mis-managed her account. But rather this was a result of the market  moving  against  her. So 
I dont think OANDA is responsible for this.
the use of pre-paid  cards
Ref: DRN75505523Ms B used a pre-paid card to deposit funds in to her trading accounts.  This method of 
funding however isnt accepted by OANDA  for the reason of preventing  fraud. But Ms B was 
able to use this method  as her pre-paid card was designated as a virtual card. So I think  its 
understandable why OANDAs restriction on using this type of card didnt work.
Im aware that OANDA has since rectified  this situation and so this type of pre-paid card will 
no longer be accepted.  I understand  why Ms B would be unhappy with this but I dont think  
its unreasonable for OANDA to put security measures in place to avoid fraudulent  activity.  
This is not only in their interest but it also provides protection to their clients.  So I dont think  
it is an unfair security measure.
I also believe its worth  noting that OANDA  can make commercial decisions about  the 
services they offer including how clients can fund their account. It follows that I dont think 
OANDA is acting unfairly by placing a restriction on the use of pre-paid cards.
restrictions on withdrawal of funds
Account term 16.2 explains that withdrawals should be made to the same  account  or card 
that was used to fund the trading account.  And that OANDA may need  to request supporting 
documentation when  processing a withdrawal  request where the client wishes to change 
bank accounts  or when  the bank account from which the funds were  originally  received  no 
longer exists.
I understand the pre-paid card Ms B used to fund her account was due to expire. And that 
OANDA explained  to her that a letter from her card provider, confirming it had expired along 
with the details of the replacement card, would allow them  to process a withdrawal to the 
new card.  Alternatively,  if no replacement card was issued then a bank transfer to an 
account held in Ms Bs name (verified  by a bank statement) could be made.  I understand 
why Ms B may have felt inconvenienced by this request but I dont consider it unreasonable 
as it provides OANDA  with greater assurance  that withdrawn funds are being sent to the 
correct individual.  I therefore think theyve acted fairly and in line with the terms of the 
account. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest  OANDA suggested to Ms B that she would have to 
withdraw all of her funds and close her positions  to be able to use a new card. 
the adjusting of leverage
Ms B is unhappy that OANDA reduced the leverage she could  take on positions on markets  
ahead of major events.  And that because of this, she had to add further funds to her 
accounts to avoid her positions closing. While I appreciate why Ms B is unhappy about this, 
term 10.11 allows OANDA to establish leverage limits on accounts  with or without notice. 
And in Ms Bs case, I can see that they sent emails to her prior to the major events taking 
place to explain the changes and when  they would come in to effect. So although I 
appreciate Ms B feels this was done at short notice, the terms of account allow them  to 
make changes to leverage  positions  with or without notice. So I dont think OANDA has 
acted unfairly in this respect. 
Major events can often result in greater market volatility and so consumers, like Ms B, can 
be open to greater risk. So by reducing the amount  of leverage that consumers can use on 
positions ahead of major events, it minimises the risk they are exposed to. I therefore think  
Ref: DRN75505524OANDA is acting reasonably by reducing  that risk for their clients  by reducing  leverage in 
these circumstances.
communicating in English
Account term 3.4 explains that OANDA will communicate, and send all documentation, in 
English. So although I understand why Ms B would like them  to communicate in her 
preferred language, theyre not required to under the terms of the account. I therefore dont 
think OANDA is treating Ms B unfairly  by communicating with her in English.
Im aware however that OANDA has sent some correspondence to Ms B in her preferred 
language by using a translation tool. Although they explained they wouldnt be responsible 
for the quality of the translation, I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
request to update information
OANDA were required to update  Ms Bs details to comply with a regulatory change. Without 
this information,  OANDA wouldnt have been able to accept any further trade  instructions 
from her. So they contacted Ms B asking her to provide this information  by 29 December 
2017, otherwise  her account would be closed.  Given  OANDA wouldnt have been allowed to 
let Ms B trade without this information  I dont think this action was unreasonable.
I understand Ms B complied with this request but OANDA sent her a chaser a few days later 
in error.  While I appreciate this wouldve caused Ms B some concern, Im not aware it 
prevented her from using  her account  or adversely impacted her. I therefore  think  the 
apology OANDA has provided is sufficient.
closure of accounts
OANDA wrote to Ms B on 15 June 2018 saying they were concerned with their ability to 
effectively communicate  with her. And so while they understood  her desire  for them  to 
communicate in her preferred language, they were unable to do so. Because  of this, they 
explained that theyd made the decision to close her accounts under account  term 21.2. 
They gave Ms B four weeks of notice and explained  that any positions that remained open at 
that time would be closed  at the prevailing  market rate. Any funds on the accounts would 
then be returned  to the same source that they originated  and this would happen prior to 
expiry of her pre-paid card.
Although I appreciate Ms Bs dissatisfaction with OANDAs decision to close  her accounts, 
Im satisfied that theyre able to do so under the terms of the account. And that by providing 
her with four weeks of notice, rather than the required minimum three business days, I think  
theyve acted fairly when  doing so. This is because Ms B had a reasonable amount of time 
to find an alternative provider and move  any open  positions elsewhere.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Ref: DRN75505525Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7550552