K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the service  provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to 
a central heating insurance  policy. 
background
Mr B has held a policy with British Gas for about  25 years. For some time Mr B says he had 
problems with his hot water  supply. British Gas attended on several  occasions  and told Mr B 
the problem was being caused by airlocks in the system. I understand it released  the airlock  
each time but the problem kept recurring. Mr B says British Gas kept trying to get him to 
have a new boiler instead of fixing the problem properly. 
Eventually Mr B employed his own heating engineer who fixed the problem. His engineer  
also said there was an issue with the expansion pipe to the heating terminating  over the cold 
tank, when it should  have  been over the hot water  tank. Mr B says this had never been 
picked up by British  Gas over the years. He wants a refund  of the previous three  years  
premiums, as he feels he did not get the service paid for and he was without a properly 
working hot water system for three  years. Mr B also wants an independent  engineer to 
inspect the system, as there were  still concerns  it is drawing in air. 
British Gas says that the work  done by Mr Bs engineer  fitting an auto air vent to release 
air and help the water get hot - is a bypass  fix and is not a permanent  solution. British Gas 
also says the policy  doesnt cover upgrading a system, which this bypass would be. The 
private engineer  has bypassed the blockage by fitting  the auto air vent but this has not 
addressed why the system is producing air locks, which is normally as a result of 
sludge/debris in the system.  It would quote  to put the system right but wouldnt  install  
something that is a temporary fix and which masks the original problem. The problem with 
the way the expansion  pipe was installed would not be covered by an insurance policy and it 
also doesnt cover the removal  of sludge. 
British Gas says it correctly resolved the airlocks  each  time they occurred and correctly  
advised Mr B of appropriate improvement  work, which was declined.  It also offered to 
inspect the boiler  but this was declined.  British Gas did however  offer £150 as a goodwill 
gesture, on the basis that its engineers could have explained the diagnosis  of why the 
airlocks were happening better. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and recommended that it be upheld.  He 
thought that some of the work done by Mr Bs engineer should have been covered  by the 
policy, so he recommended that British Gas pay half the invoice (£350) together with interest 
and a further £100 compensation.
Mr B accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
British Gas does  not accept the adjudicators assessment. It says again that removing 
sludge is not covered under the policy and the air vent was a temporary  fix; and the upgrade 
work it recommended  would have been the permanent solution to the airlock  issue. The 
boiler is more than 30 years old (more than twice the average life expectancy)  and it has 
been advising that Mr B get a new boiler since 2010. British Gas says the £150 it already 
offered is fair and reasonable. 
As the adjudicator has been  unable  to resolve the complaint, it has been passed  to me. 
Ref: DRN78575982 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gass file records  that there were numerous  attendances in relation to problems with 
the hot water and airlocks between February 2017  and May 2018.  Mr B has said in some 
correspondence that the problem was ongoing for around three years and in others  
18 months. From the papers provided to me, British Gas was aware  of it for around 
15 months. 
Mr B says that periodically he would be without hot water; when British  Gas released the air 
lock each time, there would be period of time when it worked properly but the problem would 
always recur after a while. Mr B says he managed through this period  by relying on an 
electric shower and using  the immersion heater, which means  his electricity bills have been 
higher than they should have been.
Mr Bs engineer said he flushed  the central heating system to remove  black sludge and then 
installed an automatic air vent into the return pipe work in the garage.  He also said: during 
the first visit I noticed that the expansion pipe to the heating was terminating over the cold 
water tank and should be over the heating  tank. This would explain the dirty water coming 
out of the taps every  now and then. He re-routed the expansion pipe above the correct 
tank and serviced the boiler.
British Gas says that the installation of the air vent is only a temporary fix but M B has said 
he has not had any problems with the hot water  supply since then. British Gas may be right 
that this would not, on its own, resolve  the problem as to why air was being drawn into the 
system in the first place but the system was also flushed out. Its point about  this being only a 
temporary solution and that it does not address  the underlying issue  may carry more  weight 
if it had not attended approximately nine times  just to release the air lock and was not 
proposing any other repair.  The air vent might  not be a permanent repair (and I wish to make 
clear this has not been established) but it is a longer lasting solution than British Gas 
provided. 
British Gas has said the boiler is old and the system needs replacing but, be that as it may,  it 
was not irreparable.  The boiler  was repairable, hot water has been restored to Mr B and I 
consider that British  Gas should have  done more than it did to resolve this for Mr B. He is 
under no obligation to pay for a new boiler, when his boiler was repairable  and the failure of 
the hot water is a matter covered by the policy. 
I agree  that not all the work carried out by Mr Bs own engineer  would have been covered by 
the policy, including the re-routing of the pipework. This was not apparently the cause of the 
failure of the hot water  supply,  so while this might have been  a problem, British Gas was not 
obligated to do anything to change this under  the terms of the insurance over. It also is not 
responsible for the cost of servicing the boiler.  
Overall, I consider the adjudicators suggestion  that British Gas pay half the cost of the 
private engineer  together with interest to be reasonable. I do not agree that British Gas need  
to refund the premiums or the last three years as some  service was provided and there were 
also attendances  for other matters. 
 
Ref: DRN78575983I also agree  that some  additional compensation is appropriate and am going  to award 
slightly more than the adjudicator and require British Gas to pay Mr B £175  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by having to get his own engineer to resolve a matter  
that should have been covered  under  the policy, which also meant  his hot water  supply 
repeatedly failed.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay Mr B £350  
plus interest at 8% simple  per annum, from the date he paid his engineer to the date of 
reimbursement; and £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claims. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7857598