K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS), mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a new credit card in 2000. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs D disagreed  and it has been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D says she wasnt ever given an option or enough information about  the PPI. So we 
asked to see the application  form Mrs D used to get her new credit card.
I can see Mrs D was given the option of whether or not to have PPI because there was a 
section on the form which was headed Payment  Protection. In this section, there  was an 
option box to mark if she wanted to have  PPI cover. I can see a tick was placed into that 
box, which strongly suggests to me that PPI was something Mrs D wanted to have. I think 
Mrs D wouldve been able to see she had a choice and that she didnt  have to buy this type 
of cover if she didnt want to. 
I can also see from Mrs Ds monthly credit  card statements that the PPI was being charged 
regularly on her account over a sustained time period.  I think  its likely that if shed not ever 
asked for or wanted PPI, she would have  probably  asked what  the charges were for. So Im 
afraid these  things show she agreed  to the policy back in 2000.
RBS has told me these particular types of sale werent advised sales  and that corresponds 
with my experience of them.  So it was for Mrs D to decide for herself what she wanted to do. 
RBSs responsibility  was to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading.
I cant say after such a long time that this was done and I can certainly see ways in which 
the form could  have been set out more clearly. But Mrs D was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies.  
Mrs D told us about the job she had and said she already  had sickness protection with it. Ive 
thought carefully  about this and I understand the point she is making. But Im afraid that 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use.
Thats because the cost of the policy seems to me to be affordable for her. It would also 
have reduced Mrs Ds outstanding balance by 10% each month for up to 12 months  and this 
would have been in addition to other  means  she already had at the time. So I think  the cover 
was of use and thats probably why she decided to buy it by ticking  the box and signing the 
form.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs D. But this policy wasnt mis-sold.
Ref: DRN76542132my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint and I dont require The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7654213