K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mishandled  his direct debits (DD)  
resulting in a loss of interest  which he calculates  to be £469.
background
Mr H set up 2 direct  debits with his bank  (S) to fund his Instant Access (IA) and Internet 
Saver (IS) accounts, but although they initially worked, they then failed. Because  of this he 
missed out on the higher rate of interest S would have paid him on. 
Tesco accepted  that in August 2014  they didnt rectify an error with the DD for the IA 
account, until April 2015. They  also accepted  that the DD to fund the IS account  failed in 
October 2015. However they said they had sent multiple letters to Mr H regarding the DD for 
the IA account  advising him to contact  S, and in June 2017 made him aware that both DDs 
were dormant, whereupon he set up new instructions.
Tesco said they understood that Mr H had been  very unwell when the letters were sent to 
him, but argued  they had tried to let him know the DDs  were  not being  paid, and he had 
accepted he had received  those letters. He had also received his statements.
Tesco also acknowledged that they had not responded to Mr Hs initial letter of complaint as 
they had passed it to the incorrect department. To reflect the errors Tesco  made, they paid 
£100 into Mr Hs account.
Mr H was unhappy with Tescos response  and so an adjudicator from this service  looked into 
the complaint.  Our adjudicator didnt think Tesco had done  anything wrong. She found that 
Mr H had received the statements and letters relating to his accounts and so would have had 
knowledge that the DD were not being  paid. She accepted he had been  very unwell, but 
thought he had to bear responsibility  for managing his account.  Mr H disagreed with that 
view, and said he had also been suffering from clinical depression  at the time and due to that 
and his other condition had not had the ability to deal with any of the letters Tesco had sent. 
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the adjudicators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence in front of me. Where such evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities 
 in other words,  I consider what is more  likely  to have happened in light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. I have  great 
sympathy for Mr H since he undoubtedly had serious health  issues at the relevant time,  in 
addition to which he was suffering from depression. That will have certainly affected his 
ability to deal with his financial and administrative affairs.
Ref: DRN71668792However on the evidence I have seen,  the facts  are that his 2 DDs failed. Tesco  have 
accepted they were  at fault. It is regrettable  that they can offer no explanation with regard to 
one, since they say they have no further  information.  Irrespective of the cause of the failures  
they have nevertheless accepted responsibility. 
When Tesco  became  aware of the errors they wrote  to Mr H, and as they were  unaware of 
Mr Hs medical  conditions  I would  not expect them to do more than that. In addition Mr H 
received bank statements, which of course  I would show the DDs were not being paid. Mr H 
accepts he received the letters and statements, and so constructively, he had knowledge 
that the DDs were  not being paid.  It is unfortunate Mr H was unable to deal with those 
letters and his statements but that is not due to in any part to Tesco.  So I cannot say that 
beyond the initial failure with the DDs, Tesco have done anything  wrong.
It follows that as the DDs were no longer  active on Mr Hs account with S, he would miss out 
on the interest. I accept  that he has missed out on that interest, but the cause of that I 
cannot find to be the fault of Tesco. Mr H does bear the responsibility of ensuring that he met 
the necessary  criteria to obtain the higher rate of interest on the account  with S. Having been 
put on notice of the failed  DDs it was then up to Mr H to correct  it.
In relation to Mr H bringing  his initial complaint, Tesco have accepted that their processes in 
failed and have  apologised  and paid compensation to him. 
What I need to decide is whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably  in how it dealt with Mr H. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. Ive also thought about the £100 compensation 
Tescos paid Mr H for the errors they made,  and I think that this is reasonable. It is in line 
with the awards  this service would make for distress and inconvenience in circumstances 
like this, and I think it is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7166879