K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds valuation  of his car in a claim on 
his motor insurance policy and delays in it dealing with his claim.
background
Mr Ms car was written  off in an accident. He says there were  unacceptable delays in 
Admiral getting a valuation of it and he thinks the amount  its offered  is too low. He says it 
doesnt take account of the figures he put forward and his rural location.  He wants to be paid 
a price that reflects all this, which he thinks is £4,000. 
Admiral said in its final response that its valuation of £3,870 reflected the cars market value 
at the time of loss and as defined in the policy terms.  This was the highest of the valuations 
shown for the car in three of the main trade guides  which gave values of £2,385, £3,400  and 
£3,870.  
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
Mr Ms policy says the cars  market  value is the cost of replacing it with a similar one 
at the time of loss.
We find the valuations  in the main  trade  guides most persuasive when looking at 
market value. They are based  on national likely selling prices  of cars. Here  hes 
found that two of the main trade guides show values for Mr Ms car of £3,991 and 
£3,870. Thats an average of £3,930.50. And Mr M does  not live in an area where we 
would normally accept  a regional variation would be applicable.
So, its fair for Admiral  to pay Mr M the difference between its valuation  of £3,870 and 
this average value. It should  also pay interest  on this sum from 11 January 2019.
Admiral offered its valuation to Mr M only twelve days after the incident  which  is 
reasonable.
Mr M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
Admiral says it doesnt agree. Its original offer was reasonable as it was almost the same as 
the figure recommended by the adjudicator.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy says the most  Admiral will pay is the market value of his car which  is the cost 
of replacing it at the time of loss. 
That sum isnt necessarily the same amount that he bought the car for or the cost to him of 
actually replacing  it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
Ref: DRN72039242other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  based on national  figures. And 
variations in actual  figures may occur from place to place. Mr M says his valuation should  be 
increased to take account of the region  where  he lives which is rural. But his location isnt 
one we would normally consider to warrant a substantial increase  as although rural it isnt 
one of the most remote regions of the UK. But I accept that its rural nature may have  some  
very limited impact  on prices. 
As a result although  Ive noted  all Mr Ms comments and submissions I think  its fair and 
reasonable to use the main trade guide process  to initially  assess  Admirals offer. 
In this case Admiral and the adjudicator  have  identified various trade guide prices. Some 
have been discarded as being too low. Of those remaining Admiral used the highest it found  
of £3,870. Our adjudicator  also noted  the £3,870 valuation and found one that was slightly 
higher of £3,991. And the average  of these two was £3,930.50.
I accept that this average figure is only slightly higher than the one used  by Admiral. But in 
the individual circumstances of this case I think, on balance, that it represents a fair and 
reasonable valuation of Mr Ms car not least as it provides a small uplift on Admirals  original 
valuation to reflect Mr Ms suggestion  that prices  might be a little higher in his rural location.
Im aware of both Mr M and Admirals strength of feeling and frustration. But taking 
everything into account, I think on balance that the adjudicators  recommendation that 
Admiral should pay Mr M a further  £60.50  plus some  interest is a fair and reasonable 
resolution of this complaint.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to pay Mr M a 
further £60.50 plus simple  interest on this sum at the rate of 8% a year from the 
11 January 2019  to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7203924