K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs K bought the policy in 2000  during a telephone call.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint because:
Due to the time thats passed, a copy of the call recording is no longer  available. This 
isnt surprising. But Ive considered  what we know more  widely  about how FICL sold 
PPI during phone  calls around the time this policy was taken out. 
I havent seen  strong  evidence  that FICL didnt follow their normal  sales  process and 
I think that its more likely than not that the PPI was presented as optional before 
Mrs K agreed to take it out. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. 
 But FICL did still have to give Mrs K good enough information so that she could decide 
if the PPI was right for her and if she wanted to take it out. Its possible the information 
FICL gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But Mrs K doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances, including  her 
employment circumstances at the time of sale, it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to her. So I dont  think  better  information  wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ks comments,  but these  points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN79376932my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7937693