K821x#15complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the car she bought using a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (Blue Motor). She wants Blue Motor  to allow her to reject  the car and 
pay her hire costs shes had whilst her car was being repaired.
background
Miss H bought her car on 13 April 2018.  At the time it was about 4 years  old and had done 
about 45,000 miles.  A month later the turbo failed and the car was returned to the selling 
garage on the 15 May. Miss H also said there were problems with the electric windows. The 
garage said it would pay some of the repair cost but not all. Unhappy  about that Miss H 
contacted Blue Motor.  Blue Motor said it would  look into things for her. A week  after that, 
Miss H asked for a courtesy car. Blue Motor  said it would  only pay for this if it was 
responsible for the problems with the car.
Later Blue Motor agreed to pay for the car hire but said it would  limit the amount it would pay 
initially to £120  a week and later £140  a week. In total it paid for six weeks car hire.
The car was returned to Miss H on or near 11 July  so it had been  off the road for eight 
weeks.
A short while later Miss H complained about  other faults with the car  and said the problem  
with the electric windows  remained  unfixed.  An independent inspection revealed  severely  
worn brake pads and discs  and no fault with the windows. Blue Motor  said that, as the car 
had passed an MOT  a month before Miss H bought  it, the pads  and discs  must have been in 
reasonable condition. It pointed  out that Miss H had driven more than 5,000 miles in the 
seven weeks the car had been on the road,  so the issue with the discs  and pads were  
general wear and tear.
Miss H wants  to return the car and unwind her finance agreement.
Our investigator thought Miss Hs complaint should be upheld, although he didnt go as far 
as agreeing Miss H could  return the car. He thought it was reasonable for a repair to be the 
first option  as far as the turbo went  and that this had been arranged  at no cost to Miss H. 
He also agreed  that the brake  problems  were most likely the result of wear  and tear and that 
as the independent  inspection found  no fault with the windows that he couldnt ask Blue 
Motor to fix these. He did think Blue Motor should  return one months  repayment  (about 
£320) to compensate her for not having  a car at all for about three weeks, that Blue Motor 
should pay the full cost of car hire and pay £150 for the inconvenience its handling of her 
complaint caused.
Miss H agreed with this in the main,  but asked that Blue Motor  also pay the cost of an 
unnecessary trip from her home  to the repair garage, saying shed been told the car was 
ready when  it wasnt. And she wants Blue Motor to pay some of her insurance costs too  
about £260.
Blue Motor  says it shouldnt have  to pay any extra towards the cost of car hire as it thinks  
Miss H could have hired a small car within the limits it said it would pay.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
Ref: DRN74933082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
returning the car
As our investigator said, the normal remedy for a car that has faults present at the point of 
sale is firstly  to repair the fault.  Thats been  done, so I dont think  Miss H has grounds for 
rejecting the car. It seems  to me that both parties accept this.
other faults
The car had other faults. One  the problematic windows  has been independently 
assessed, and no fault has been found.  I cant ask Blue Motor to pay to repair  a fault that 
cant be demonstrated, so Im not going to ask it do any more about this.
Miss H reported driving issues  after the turbo  had been replaced  and it seems these were 
because of severely worn  discs and brake  pads.  I agree with our investigator  on this point:  
the car had passed an MOT immediately before Miss H bought it. Theres  no comment about 
any wear on break pads or discs and we know that these have to have at least 50% of life 
in order to pass the test. We also know that Miss H drove more  than 5,000  miles in the car in 
the seven weeks  or so it was on the road. Thats far in excess of normal mileage, which  is 
about 7,000 -10,000 a year. I think its reasonable to conclude the brakes were showing 
normal wear and tear commensurate with the mileage  done.
Im not going  to ask Blue Motor to do more than it has about  these  other faults.
hire car
Blue Motor  said it didnt have to pay for a hire car unless it was responsible  for the repairs.  
And when  Miss Hs partner requested a courtesy car about a fortnight after the car went  in 
for repair its first response was to suggest  she used alternate means of transport  by 
which I presume it meant  public transport.
Eventually Blue Motor  did agree it would pay for a hire car, but wanted to limit the amount it 
would pay. Our investigator didnt think that was fair, and asked it to pay the difference  
between the amount it has paid and the actual cost of hire. Miss H said the payment was 
only agreed week by week in the main  so that meant the cost was inflated as she was 
making arrangements at the last minute.  In response Blue Motor says Miss H was simply 
rolling over her car hire and its research shows it could have a sourced a car for less.
Ive looked at the hire agreements and its clear  they were  being arranged on a weekly  basis 
in the main and at short notice. I think that does  affect the cost, as prices  are often higher in 
this sort of situation.  And having looked  at the general cost of car hire, I dont think Miss H 
decided to hire a particularly expensive car. I take Blue Motors  point that it could have 
sourced a small car for less  but it didnt do so, nor did it help Miss H find a car at a lower  
price. 
So I think its fair to ask Blue Motor to pay the difference between  the amount its paid for car 
hire and Miss Hs actual cost.
Ref: DRN74933083other costs  and compensation
Miss H was without a car at all for about  three  weeks. So I think its fair that Blue Motor  
return one months payment (plus statutory interest) as compensation for this. 
Miss H asked if we would also compensate her for the cost of the unnecessary  trip to collect  
the car when  it wasnt ready. I think theres some debate about whether  she was told when 
she could collect it  or when the garage  thought it would be ready. But I think  an allowance 
for this is included in the compensation the investigator recommended,  and that £150  is a 
fair amount overall.
Finally Miss H asked that Blue Motor refund the cost of the car insurance  whilst it was off the 
road being repaired. But shes  still obliged to insure the car, even if it isnt being craven, so 
Im not going  to ask Blue Motors to pay for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
refund  Miss H a months worth of repayments  for when she
didnt have access to a car * - if it hasnt already done so.
reimburse Miss H with the difference in what shes  paid in rental  costs  and what  theyve 
already paid *
pay Miss H £150 in compensation for the trouble and upset this matter  has 
caused.
* 8% simple interest should be paid on these amounts from the date of original payment to 
the date of refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7493308