K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance 
(VFS) charged her for damage to her car, when she voluntarily terminated her finance  
agreement.
background
In April 2018 Mrs B voluntarily terminated  her hire purchase agreement with VFS.  An 
inspection was carried out by an independent  company, who identified  the following three 
areas of damage;
Chipped  front windscreen
Broken  front bumper grille
Poor finish/scratches  to three alloy wheels
Mrs B is unhappy that VFS is charging  her over £500 for damage to the car. She says the 
chip to the windscreen  was minor  and explained that she had never had the alloy wheels 
repaired or treated.  Mrs B thinks its unfair  for VFS to charge her for damage because it sold 
the car in auction without carrying out repairs. She wants the charges waived.
VFS didnt  think it had done  anything wrong. It said that the agreement Mrs B signed 
required her to return the car in good condition  and pay for refurbishment charges for any 
damage that is outside of The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) 
guidance on fair wear  and tear.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Based on the inspection report  and the images 
of the damage, she thought the items charged for went beyond fair wear and tear and said 
the end of contract charges for damage was fair.
Mrs B didnt agree. She says the voluntary termination paper work specifically states that 
VFS can only charge  for repair, refurbishment or replacement, as it didnt carry out any 
repairs, she doesnt think VFS should  be able to charge her.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the complaint  
should be upheld  and I will explain why;
Mrs B says its wrong for VFS to charge her for repairs  that it never carried  out.
Mrs Bs finance agreement says;
3.1keep the vehicle in good  repair  and condition  commensurate with its age and 
mileage.
3.2 you will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the vehicle  which is in 
excess of fair wear and tear 
Ref: DRN71358072I think it is clear  from the agreement Mrs B signed that she needed to return the car in good 
condition and if she didnt,  she would be liable for any damage or loss to the car, above  fair 
wear and tear. 
I appreciate that Mrs B feels that VFS shouldnt be able to charge her because  the voluntary 
termination paperwork refers to charging  for repairs and refurbishment.  But the 
repair/refurbishment charges are designed to reflect the potential loss in value to VFS when 
a car is returned in a lesser condition (fair wear  and tear excepted). VFS are under no 
contractual obligation to actually carry out repairs.  It can decide  to repair  the car or take the 
risk of the car making less at auction and it can still apply the charges. So I think VFS can 
charge Mrs B for damage outside fair wear and tear, even though it sold the car without 
carrying out repairs.  
Im satisfied that VFS is allowed to charge Mrs B for damage outside  fair wear and tear. So 
Ive got to decide whether  the damage charged was beyond fair wear and tear as outlined  in 
the BVRLA guidelines.  
Ive looked at the inspection report along with the images to decide whether the damage 
goes beyond fair wear  and tear, as outlined in the BVLRA guidelines. The inspection  report 
identified damage  to the front bumper  grille and I can see from the images that the front grille 
is broken, Im satisfied  that this damage is outside  fair wear and tear and is chargeable.
From the images I agree that the chip to the front windscreen is small, but the BVLRA 
guidelines state that chips, cracks or holes to a windscreen are not acceptable. I dont think 
its unreasonable for Mrs B to be charged  for the repairs to the windscreen. 
The inspection report notes that three  of the alloys have been  poorly  refurbished.  From  the 
images I can see peeling  and scratches  to the alloys. The BVLRA guidance  says that any 
damage to the spokes  or alloy hub is unacceptable damage. Mrs B says she never had the 
alloys treated and this must have happened before  she got the car. Mrs B has not provided  
any images to show the condition  of the alloys when she got the car and there are also 
scratches to the hubs,  so I think its reasonable for VFS to charge her for the damage to the 
three alloy wheels.
From what  Ive seen Im satisfied that VFS have not made an error or acted unreasonably in 
charging Mrs B for the damage.
Mrs B says VFS led her to believe that she could  get the repairs  done herself, after the car 
was collected.  I listened  to the call on 18 April 2018  and the VFS advisor explained that Mrs 
B could  contact the collection  company  to delay the cars collection so she could carry out 
any repairs. Mrs B said she didnt want to do this as her insurance was due to expire and 
she didnt want to extend this further.
I dont think VFS made an error, the advisor  made it clear that Mrs B could repair  the car 
herself before the car was collected,  but explained that she still had the option to dispute  the 
charges following the cars collection.
For the reasons  which Ive explained  above, Im satisfied that the end of agreement  charges 
are fair and I dont  think Mrs B was misled to believe she could carry out repairs  after the car 
had been collected. Im not saying Mrs B doesnt have any further options, only that she 
cant take this particular complaint further  with us. She may wish to seek  advice about what  
other options are available  to her.
Ref: DRN71358073my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135807