K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) wont  refund payments 
he says he didnt make with his credit  card.
background
Mr U has had an account with Barclaycard  since 2014. On 20 June 2018 he contacted  it to 
say that he hadnt been  making recent payments with his card. A fraud claim was opened 
and on 10 July 2018 he said that he had never  received the card involved. Mr U is unhappy 
that Barclaycard  didnt  look into his claim further as it says he didnt send it the information 
about all his other card accounts it had requested. Mr U says he did send  this and he 
complains that Barclaycard lost his information  and dealt with him in a rude manner.
Barclaycard said it wouldnt be refunding  any money to him. His initial  claim based on the 
prior six months  of payments was for £1,155.95. All these payments were contactless.  But if 
said that these  had been made locally with many  in a store close to his address and were 
consistent with the past genuine use of his card. These had been  shown  on paper 
statements sent to him and the account balance had been paid through direct debit to his 
bank account.  It told him in a final response  letter that controls are in place to ensure that 
contactless transactions are not permitted  indefinitely and that ..the  usage of your card was 
within the parameter  of our controls.  It disputed losing the further  information  Mr U sent but 
said it would  consider his claim further  if he did send this. It pointed out that this was his fifth 
claim of fraud in four years. There was no recording of the calls when Mr U said he was dealt 
with rudely but as a gesture of goodwill it credited £50 to his account. It said he later asked 
for this to be removed.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-Hed clarified with Mr U that he was disputing all payments made  with the card 
number ending 6003 as he said he had never received it.
-This card was sent to him in February  2017.  Mr U told him that there  was a 
communal area where post was left for his flat so a neighbour  could have taken it 
and hed had parcels go missing  before.
-Although the majority of the payments since then were contactless  there  were  some 
made in February  2017 when the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct  
PIN entered.  There  was no clear way someone could also have discovered his PIN. 
-Mr U was receiving  paper statements and the balance each month was debited to his 
account by direct  debit so he thought  it likely Mr U would have noticed the disputed 
payments earlier. So it was strange he didnt report what had happened for 16 
months.
-Mr U said he lived alone and so there  was no evidence to support a person close  to 
him taking the card.
-He had nothing  to suggest  Barclaycard ought  to have done more  to identify the 
payments as fraudulent and that it didnt apply its usual  processes.
-The payments  were in line with Mr Us past pattern of genuine use of the card. They 
didnt seem typical of a fraudster.
-There was no recording of the calls available when Mr U said he received poor 
service. There  were  transcripts  of calls and he thought the information requests were  
reasonable and although  the service  could have been better  an offer had been  made  
to reflect  this but Mr U had rejected it.
Ref: DRN76596812-Barclaycard disputes losing  information  and says that tracking  information provided  
by Mr U was for a different letter that it did receive.  Even  if that werent the case he 
thought that the information  would have  likely  been securely destroyed.
Mr U didnt agree. He said that the investigator hadnt assessed  his complaint properly. 
There were no chip and PIN payments during the time of the fraud. All of the payments were  
contactless. He wanted  to know  how if he hadnt received his card he would know it had 
been used until hed noticed the direct debits. Mr U said that this important information had 
been missed and he had told the investigator  this before.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 and 2017 in considering  
this complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it just to be authenticated, say with the chip on the card for contactless 
payments - or even when  the PIN is also used.  Where credit  is involved, as is the case here 
on credit  cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states  that a consumer  
wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else 
having possession  of that card. 
So Ive thought about the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-Whats the most likely explanation of how the PIN was discovered?
-Did Mr U authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else 
to use his card?
Im satisfied that these  payments were  authenticated when the chip on the genuine  card was 
accessed mostly using  contactless technology.  As our investigator has said the PIN was 
also entered for some payments and Ill say a bit more about that below. 
I need to think  about  whether Mr U consented to the payments. As I mentioned briefly above 
when he first contacted  Barclaycard it noted hed disputed the last six months  payments on 
the card. It considered his complaint  based  on that. But it noted  that in July 2018 he also 
said hed never  had the card. That would mean  all payments after the card was dispatched  
on 2 February 2017 were  disputed. Ive seen evidence showing  that his previous card had 
been blocked on that day. Ive looked through his statements and on my calculation  that 
would mean  that nearly £3,000 of payments are disputed by him.
The investigators set out that there  were  chip and PIN payments made with the new card in 
February 2017. And Ive seen clear evidence for example of a payment authenticated in this 
way with chip and PIN on 12 February 2017.  To be fair all payments after February 2017 
were contactless.
So if Mr Us position is that he never  received the card the question  is how someone would 
have discovered  his PIN. It hadnt changed  and there was no re-advice of PIN sent.  And if a 
fraudster had his card and PIN I find it unlikely that only contactless payments  would  have 
been made after that and which  were limited to a maximum of £30 each. There was a credit  
limit at the time of £5,000 on his account.
Ref: DRN76596813I agree  with our investigator that there  is no clear way in which an unknown third party  or 
even someone known to Mr U could have found the PIN.
Mr Us position is that he didnt have the card and didnt realise as he has a number of other  
cards. It also may not have been obvious  to him that some of the chip and PIN payments 
were made using this card. And when he spoke to Barclaycard at first he was noted  as not 
being exactly clear  when the disputed  payments started. So Im also going to think about a 
scenario where  he lost his card sometime after it was issued.
Ive already set out the amount at stake  for him here. Ive seen evidence that he was 
receiving statements by post. And the direct debit  to clear the monthly card balance  was 
being applied  to his account.  I know he says he had a similar mortgage payment too but Id 
still need to think  it reasonable he didnt notice this other  direct  debit to this business  of 
between £150  and £200 in most  months.
The pattern  of payments even if contactless only isnt consistent in my view with fraud. Many 
of the payments were made in a supermarket within walking distance  of his home. And hed 
used that in the past. There is no clear break in the pattern of payments either when the new 
card was issued or at any time before the fraud  was reported. Its also odd that there were 
some refunds to the card from stores made which seems an unlikely request from a 
fraudster. And a fraudster  risking detection  is likely to attempt to take as much as possible 
even given the contactless limit.
I know Mr U is unhappy that so many contactless  payments were made without any 
requirement for a PIN. How Barclaycard detects fraud is really a matter  for it to determine.  It 
would refund all payments  shown to be fraudulent on a credit  card anyway. And the 
relevance here is only if I was to think that these were fraudulent  and there was a loss. I also 
want to make clear that I draw no adverse inference  from Mr Us reported previous claims of 
fraud which I believe were settled by Barclaycard not least  because  I havent been provided 
with details of any investigation it did at those  times.  I am solely focussing on the 
circumstances of this complaint here.
On balance having considered all the evidence and now the scenarios of whether Mr U 
never received his card at all or lost it sometime after he received it I am not persuaded the 
most likely explanation is that he didnt consent to and so authorise all these payments. So I 
dont have a basis  to ask Barclaycard to refund any of them.
Ref: DRN76596814I dont have anything  significant to add to what our investigators said about the calls Mr U 
had with Barclaycard.  Ive noted a transcript of one on 10 July 2018  and its clear Mr U was 
unhappy to be asked for copies of a number  of statements for his other bank cards.  And he 
also raised data protection issues then. I cant resolve whether information  was or wasnt lost 
but there is no evidence  of any breach  outside  Barclaycard. It offered him £50 for poor 
service which  hes rejected but my understanding is that this remains  open to him if he 
contacts Barclaycard about it. I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything to resolve his 
complaint.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
(trading as Barclaycard)  does not need to do anything more  than it has already offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659681