K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Casheuronet UK LLC trading as QuickQuid  irresponsibly lent to him. He says that 
QuickQuid shouldnt have  approved  multiple  loans to him as it caused  him financial 
hardship. He says he is still having problems  repaying the loans he took out some time ago. 
background
This complaint is about 2 payday loans QuickQuid provided to Mr W between July 2009 and 
September 2009. 
Loan 1 was for £200, it was started  in July 2009  and had a term of 51 days.  
Loan 2 was for £300, it was started  in September  2009  and had a term of 57 days.  
Mr W has been unable to repay loan 2. I understand the outstanding  debt has been sold to a 
third party collection agency. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. She thought that QuickQuid shouldve  made  
better checks. But she wasnt persuaded that further  checks  wouldve shown that Mr W 
couldnt sustainably  repay his loans.  This was because  she didnt think the information  Mr W 
provided showed this. 
Mr W didnt agree and he provided his recollections  of his expenditure at the time and his 
bank statements. However  our adjudicator didnt change her opinion  about the complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  passed to me to issue  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was appropriate for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN73828792refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
The highest  repayment for loan 1 was around a quarter of Mr Ws declared income. He 
repaid this in full, and then a very short time after this he started  loan 2. And the amount he 
borrowed was higher. The highest  repayment  was around a third of his declared income.
So I think its reasonable to say that the high, and increasing amounts Mr W borrowed 
without a significant break, could indicate  that he was experiencing financial problems. I 
think QuickQuid shouldve  done more to look into this.
So I think that before approving loan 1 it wouldve  been reasonable for QuickQuid to have 
asked Mr W about his income and his normal  monthly living costs and regular financial 
commitments. And before approving loan 2 it also shouldve asked him about any existing 
short term lending he mayve had. This was to make sure Mr W was in position  to make the 
repayments sustainably.
I dont think QuickQuid did this. As it says it just asked Mr W what he was earning before 
lending both times. So I need  to think about  what QuickQuid wouldve seen if it had carried 
out reasonable checks. What I need to see in order to uphold  Mr Ws complaint is that if 
QuickQuid had asked  him questions about  his expenditure it wouldve found out that the 
loans werent affordable.  
Mr W has provided some information about his financial circumstances. This includes his 
recollections about his expenditure and his bank statements. aMr W says that these show  
the loans were unaffordable and that he was in financial difficulty. 
But having  thought about what he has said,  in conjunction with looking at his bank 
statements, I cant reasonably say this would be the case. Mr W says he paid certain 
amounts in respect of, for example, his rent. But I cant  see how he did this, or how he paid 
for many of the other things he now says he did. So I cant say that if QuickQuid had asked  
further questions  it wouldve  found  further information that would show he couldnt afford to 
make the repayments  to these loans. 
I can see that Mr W now says he is in financial difficulty and Im sorry about this. I 
understand that Mr Ws debt is now with a third a party.  But If Mr W still has contact  with 
QuickQuid about  the money  he owes then I would remind QuickQuid of its responsibility to 
treat Mr W positively  and sympathetically. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Ref: DRN73828793Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7382879