K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund her account  with five cash  machine
withdrawals that she says she neither made  nor authorised. They  total £2,000.
background
Miss C has a Lloyds current account,  with a debit card. Between  23 and 27 November 2017
five cash machine withdrawals were  made  using her card, along with balance  checks.
Miss C says she found out about the withdrawals when she checked her account on 28
November. She contacted  Lloyds to say that she didnt recognise them. She confirmed that
she still had her card with her, that nobody had access to it and that she kept her PIN secret.
Lloyds said that it thought  she had carried out the transactions herself.
Miss C didnt accept that and referred the matter to this service, where one of our
investigators looked at it. He took a different view from the bank though. Whilst he accepted
that the genuine card had been  used with the correct PIN to make the withdrawals, he
thought it was possible that someone else had observed Miss C using her card with the PIN
and then taken  the card and used it.
Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  conclusions and asked that an ombudsman  review  the
complaint.
I did that and, because I thought I was likely to reach a different conclusion  from the 
investigator, issued  a provisional decision. I invited both parties, but in particular Miss C, to 
submit further evidence and arguments.
I accepted that Miss Cs evidence that the card hadnt been lost or stolen. I accepted too that 
she had changed  the PIN and didnt need to keep a written record of it. But I also noted that 
the cash machine  withdrawals had been  made using the genuine  card and PIN. It followed 
that either Miss C had made the withdrawals herself or that someone who knew her PIN had 
been able to take her card and use it on several  occasions; theyd also been able to return it. 
I didnt think it was very likely that someone could have observed Miss Cs PIN and then 
taken her card, used  it and then replaced  it without her knowledge. I thought  it was possible 
too that, although Miss C had said she was at work  when some of the withdrawals were 
made, she had been able to make them during breaks. 
My provisional conclusion was that Miss C had either made the withdrawals herself or had 
allowed someone else to do so. It wouldnt therefore  be fair to require the bank to refund 
them.
In response to my provisional decision Miss C provided more detail about  her work 
arrangements and hours. This evidence showed, she said, that she couldnt  have  made at 
least some  of the withdrawals. We asked  Lloyds for its comments  on that evidence,  but it 
said it still thought  it likely  that Miss C had authorised the withdrawals, even if she hadnt  
made them herself.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I havent  
changed my overall  conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN70599012As Ive indicated, the evidence that Miss C sent in response to my provisional decision 
provided more detail about her work  arrangements. As a result  of that, I accept that she 
wouldnt have been in a position to make any of the first three withdrawals. Her work would 
not have allowed her to take breaks at the relevant times, and the cash machine used was 
further from her place of work than I had previously  believed.  
Miss C wasnt  at work when the final two withdrawals were  made  (at a different cash 
machine from the first three).  I think its likely though that the same person  was responsible 
for all five withdrawals. 
However, even if Miss C didnt make  the withdrawals herself, whoever did make them  knew 
her PIN and was able to take her card and then return  it without her noticing. Its been 
suggested that someone in her flat (she rents a room in flat which she shares with three 
other people) could  have  taken the card and used it, having  seen Miss C using her PIN. I 
think thats unlikely  though; she hadnt  used the PIN for some time and doesnt recall  using  it 
when those individuals were with her. And I accept that Miss C hadnt written the PIN down. 
So, if Miss C didnt  make the withdrawals  herself, the most likely explanation is that she let 
someone use her card and told them what the PIN was. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be 
fair to make the bank refund the disputed  withdrawals.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Miss Cs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision  before 3 March  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7059901