K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt protected  them for the loss of £1,298  
to a scam.  Theyre also unhappy  with the service  they received from HSBC when they 
reported the scam.
background
On 30 April 2018 Mr and Mrs G made an online payment of £1,298 to pay an electrician for 
some work they had done. Mr and Mrs G say that unbeknown to them, the electricians email  
had been hacked, and that Mr and Mrs G had consequently been given incorrect  bank 
details to send  the payment to.
Mr and Mrs G reported  the scam  to HSBC on 3 May 2018. HSBC  tried but was ultimately 
unable to recover the funds from the beneficiary account (aside from 84 pence). HSBC  
credited £50 to Mr and Mrs Gs bank account  to apologise for any inconvenience  or concern 
caused.  
Ultimately Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy  and referred their complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs G remained 
unhappy and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for materially  the same reasons 
as the adjudicator explained. I know Mr and Mrs G have been waiting for a long time and this 
isnt the outcome theyve been  hoping for. I understand why they have wanted to do all they 
can to try to get their money back.  And I have no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs G have, 
as they say, been the victims of a scam. Im really sorry  theyve lost this money. Here, 
however, I need  to decide whether it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC, in all the 
circumstances of this case,  to be held responsible  for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it 
wouldnt and Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated
firms like HSBC  are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, care and
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its
Ref: DRN76831762customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam. This is
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated fraud and
scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
So taking all of this into account, I need  to decide if HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in
its dealings with Mr and Mrs G when they made  the payment of £1,298; whether it should 
have done more than it did before allowing the payment through.  I also need to decide  
whether HSBC should be required  to do more than its already  done in respect of its efforts 
to recover the funds after Mr and Mrs G reported  the scam.
Ive carefully reviewed Mr and Mrs Gs bank statements to decide  whether their payment 
instruction of £1,298 ought  fairly and reasonable to have appeared unusual or 
uncharacteristic to HSBC  at the time (and therefore  whether  it was a payment instruction 
HSBC ought reasonably  to have contacted Mr and Mrs G about before  it allowed it through, 
to check they were not at risk of financial  harm). I am satisfied, however,  that the payment 
instruction was not sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to say HSBC reasonably ought to 
have done this. I say this because Mr and Mrs G made  a payment of over £4,600  in January 
2018, and in the overall context of the operation of the account I dont think the size of the 
payment instruction ought to have  concerned  HSBC, nor that there  was anything else about 
the payment instruction that should have stood  out to HSBC such that it ought  to have 
contacted Mr and Mrs G about the transaction before allowing it through. 
Ive thought about the payment instruction being  for a new payee.  But I dont think this, or 
anything else about the payment instruction, means that HSBC,  in the context of Mr and Mrs 
Gs account history, ought to have thought it suspicious or that Mr and Mrs G were at risk of 
financial harm. 
Ive thought about the possibility that the beneficiary  account holders name  didnt match the 
payee name Mr and Mrs G instructed. However, at the time the payment was made, the 
relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  set out that payments  are 
sent according to the unique identifiers (typically  the account  number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the Payment  Service Regulations 2017 states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed with the unique identifier, the payment order is 
deemed to have been correctly executed  by each payment service provider involved in 
executing the payment  order  with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a)the payment service provider  is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service  user.
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (Mr and Mrs G). There  was no regulatory
requirement to check the beneficiary name  provided. So, even  if the beneficiary account
holders name didnt match the payee name Mr and Mrs G instructed, I cant  fairly  say HSBC 
didnt follow  Mr and Mrs Gs instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and 
Ref: DRN76831763sort code  provided,  and Im not persuaded it should have done more to check the beneficiary 
in the circumstances of this payment.
In these circumstances, given that there wasnt any interaction between Mr and Mrs G and 
HSBC as part of the payment instruction, I cant say that HSBC  unreasonably missed an 
opportunity to unearth the scam  before Mr and Mrs G made  the payment. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G reported the scam to HSBC  on 3 May 2018. I also 
understand that Mr G tried to speak with HSBC  about it the day before (on 2 May 2018) but 
HSBCs relevant department appears to have been  closed. Generally  Id expect a bank to be 
able to take and respond  immediately to a scam  allegation of this type and promptly  inform 
the beneficiary bank.  I know  this is disappointing to Mr and Mrs G and I do emphasise with 
the situation they found themselves in. Ultimately, however, it was the fraudster that tricked 
Mr and Mrs G. And I am satisfied by the available information that even if Mr and Mrs G had 
been able to make touch  with HSBC on 2 May 2018, when they tried to, and HSBC had 
contacted the beneficiary bank then immediately, that ultimately they would have been  in the 
same situation  with the funds having been  utilised and spent by the payee  beforehand, 
and unavailable  (barring the 84 pence) for HSBC to recover. 
Ive also thought about HSBCs payment of £50 to Mr and Mrs G for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I understand Mr and Mrs G feel this doesnt reflect  the amount of 
distress and inconvenience theyve suffered. However, Ive explained  above  why I dont think  
I can reasonably say HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity  to prevent the loss of the 
money. And ultimately it was the fraudster who tricked Mr and Mrs G and caused the loss of 
the funds. So overall I am satisfied HSBCs payment of £50 is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs G other points  including  that theyve questioned why 
HSBC would encourage them to bank online when, Mr and Mrs G say, if offers less 
protection than making a payment in branch or over the telephone. Ultimately,  however, the 
same question would remain  did HSBC do enough  in the circumstances or should it have 
questioned Mr and Mrs G about the payment instruction  before  allowing  it through. And for 
the reasons Ive already  explained, Im not satisfied I can say HSBC  didnt do enough or that 
it caused Mr and Mrs Gs loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7683176