K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about Standard Life Assurance Limited. She is unhappy because the 
transfer value  of her flexible retirement plan was lower  than she expected.
background
Mrs D held a flexible  retirement plan with Standard Life. She decided to transfer  this to an 
Active Money Personal Pension plan (AMPP) with Standard Life. She completed an online 
application to do this in late February  2019 and the stated value was just over £40,000. The 
transfer was completed  a few days later after Mrs D had verified her identity. But the fund 
value transferred was then £400  less.
Mrs D was unhappy about the lower  value and complained.
Standard Life explained that the funds had remained invested after the application was 
made and until the transfer was processed. The fund value had fallen during this time.
Mrs D felt that she had fully completed  the application online and so she should receive that 
transfer value.
The complaint was considered by an investigator  at this service.  She didnt think  that it 
should be upheld.  She noted that Standard Life needed to carry out an identity check  before 
the transfer could be made. An online check failed and so Mrs D had to provide 
documentary evidence.  This process  took a few days and the transfer wasnt  completed until 
the identity check  was done. By that time the value had fallen.
The investigator noted that the online application  said that the amount received may differ  to 
the value quoted depending on investment. It said that the funds remained invested until the 
transfer was complete.
There had been  calls between Mrs D and Standard  Life but the investigator  wasnt  
persuaded that Mrs D was led to believe the value was guaranteed. She had been told that 
the process would  take 10-15 days.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said that she had actioned the transfer and any delay from checking 
her identity was an internal matter for Standard  Life. She had been led to believe that current  
accounts were easier to verify and the protection against fraud applied only when money  
was being paid out.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. I dont uphold this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ds concerns. She believes that when she completed the request to 
transfer online she was, in effect, agreeing and accepting  the higher transfer value. No doubt  
the quoted value was a factor in her decision.  But Im satisfied that the online application did 
make it reasonably clear  that the actual transfer  value could be different. The funds would 
Ref: DRN74970582remain invested and the final value would  depend  on investment fluctuations until the 
transaction was completed.  This meant that the actual  transfer  value could be lower or 
higher. Mrs D was unfortunate in that the value fell, but in other circumstances it could have 
risen.
I note that Mrs D says that the verification of identity was an internal matter  for Standard Life 
and so, in effect,  should not impact  on her. But I dont agree. I think it was an essential part 
of the transfer  process. The transfer would  not take place until identity had been  verified.  
This offered protection to Mrs D and, as I understand it, was a requirement for anti-money 
laundering purposes. Standard Life has explained that the online verification  failed and so 
documentary evidence  was required.  This did hold matters up for a few days, but the 
transfer seems to have  been completed within the timescales Standard  Life had outlined.
In my experience it is typical  for funds to remain invested  whilst  administration like this is 
completed. And Im satisfied that Standard Life made it reasonably clear that this is what 
would happen  in this case. Im sorry Mrs D has lost out, but I dont think Standard Life was 
responsible for that and so I dont  think it would be fair to uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7497058