K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  (now replaced by AXA 
France IARD) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Miss H took out in 2004. 
I issued my provisional decision on Miss Hs complaint  in October  2019.  I said I was 
minded not to uphold it. I invited Miss H and FICL  to let me have any further  
representations they may have before I issued my final decision.
Miss H didnt have anything further to add.
At the time I issued my provisional decision,  FICL, as the insurer,  agreed  to take 
responsibility for this complaint. But AXA France IARD  has now taken on that 
responsibility instead. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA France IARD  as the seller in the rest of my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Hs case. 
As there  is no new information  for me to consider about the sale of the policy,  I do not 
uphold this complaint.  My reasons are the same as set out in my provisional  decision,  
which for ease of reference Ill repeat  here.
This PPI policy was sold in-store. Ive seen  the form Miss H completed  to take out the card 
and PPI. AXA France IARD had to make it clear to Miss H that PPI was optional and she 
had to agree  to it being added. I can see that Miss H signed the form twice,  and one of 
these signatures confirmed that she wanted  to take out PPI. I think  AXA France IARD made 
it clear that PPI was optional and PPI was added  because  Miss H said she wanted  it. 
AXA France  IARD didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it did have to make sure Miss H got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France IARD gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. Miss H says she had a medical  condition at the time of sale and our 
adjudicator thought this condition was something  that wouldve made  it difficult  for her to 
make a claim on the policy, so they upheld her complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the information Miss H has told us about her condition.  Having  
done this, I dont have enough evidence  to fairly conclude that Miss H would have thought 
this would be the main  reason she might need to claim on the policy in the future. The 
policy wouldve covered  her for other things. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
Ref: DRN71781432at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on 
the PPI cover, so I still think  it couldve  provided her with useful cover.
Miss H says she had sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out 
alongside her employee  benefits. It also wouldve covered her if she became  
unemployed. So I think the PP would have been useful for her if something went wrong.
Overall, I dont think Miss H has lost out by anything  AXA France  IARD might have done 
wrong. So, it follows that I do not uphold her complaint.
My final decision
I do not to uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7178143