K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  about advice given to him by Fraser Heath Financial Management Ltd to 
transfer his benefits in a final salary pension scheme. He accepted the transfer value  and 
transferred to a SIPP that he already had.
background
Mr W contacted  Fraser Heath for advice about  his deferred pension benefits.  These  were  for 
a period of three years employment ending in 1999. Mr W left his employer with a deferred 
pension of £1,745 a year at the date he left the employer.  He was being  offered a transfer 
value of £70,235.
Fraser Heath gathered  information about Mr W. He was married  with two children. He 
wanted to reduce his working hours at age 55 and retire  at age 60. He had two existing 
SIPPs and a money purchase  pension with his current  employer. He was prepared to accept 
a high level of risk with his investments.
A transfer  value analysis  was completed  this showed that deferred pension of £1,745  at the 
date of leaving the scheme  was estimated to provide an income of £4,030 at age 65. A gross 
investment return of 7% a year was required to match  the benefits; this was 5.7% a year 
after charges.
The adviser completed a report  and sent this to Mr W. He explained the circumstances set 
out above including that Mr W intended to reduce his hours at 55 and retire  at age 60. Mr W 
was prepared to accept the highest level of risk and had the capacity for loss on this 
investment. An explanation  of the benefits under the ceding scheme was provided.  This 
included the guaranteed nature of the benefits.
The recommendation to transfer  the deferred  benefits followed discussions about Mr Ws 
objectives. Mr W wanted to access the benefits  flexibly. By taking a high degree  of 
investment risk this offered some  prospect of improving his pension  benefits. This allowed 
Mr W the flexibility about when to draw his pension benefits; consolidation for ease  of 
management; increased investment choice and better benefits for his family  in the event of 
his death.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators. He concluded that the critical 
yield gave an indication  of how good  the transfer value offered was in return  for those 
benefits being given up. However, whether Mr W should accept that transfer value also 
depended on his individual  circumstances.  
The adjudicator said that in November  2016, a critical yield of 5.7% net was not excessive 
for someone  with Mr Ws attitude  to risk and in his other circumstances. The adviser did set 
out the difference between final salary  pension scheme benefits  and money purchase 
benefits in his report. They drew  Mr Ws attention to the risks.  They said that they would not 
normally recommend  transfers  from final salary  pension  schemes.  There was no basis  on 
which to uphold the complaint.
Mr W did not agree he said that as most  of his pension fund was exposed  to risk that giving 
up the guaranteed benefits makes  no sense to him. He remains unhappy with the advice 
given to him.
Ref: DRN71697272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator expected advisers to start from the position that a transfer of defined pension  
benefits is unsuitable. In this case,  I think the adviser did enough to show  that the advice 
was suitable.
Mr W was in a position  to accept the risk of losing  some of his pension funds. The amount 
being transferred  was relatively small. He was also prepared to accept a high level of risk. 
He wanted to have greater flexibility about  when he could access  his benefits. This was all 
discussed and set out in the advisers report. The return required to match the benefits being 
given up was discussed as well as the guaranteed nature of those benefits.  
Mr W has emphasised  that he has given up guaranteed benefits and invested the transfer 
value in investments  subject to risk. However, these issues were all covered in the advisers 
report. I accept that some  advisers would still have  recommended  that Mr W retain  his 
defined benefits.  But I think  the adviser has done enough to show  that there were good  
reasons for Mr W to transfer those benefits.  And it is clear  that the adviser explained the 
differences between  the defined benefits  and those in the SIPP
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7169727