K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains Cabot  Credit Management  Group Limited has been  pursuing him for debts 
he says he doesnt  owe. He wants it to provide proof of the debts or stop chasing him.
background 
Mr G tells us Cabot  has been chasing  him for several debts - but hasnt sent him 
breakdowns of the debts when he requested. He believes one account was repaid in full and 
one account had a limit of £2,500 - so he doesnt know how it escalated  to £6,000. And he 
says his bank  account was never overdrawn. 
Cabot told us Mr G had three accounts. It had purchased one account with a balance of just 
over £6,000 and had received payments of over £100. It said it had no evidence the second 
account had been repaid - and Mr G was continuing to make  payments. The third account it 
said had defaulted  and there  was over £1,700 still owing - so it was thought  unlikely this 
account never went overdrawn. Cabot said it recognised it hadnt always  been able to 
comply with Mr Gs requests for documentation. And it apologised and said it had arranged 
to reduce the balances on all Mr Gs accounts by £100.
The investigator said shed seen evidence Mr G had been paying  towards  the debts for 
several years. And she didnt think Cabot had done anything wrong in seeking  repayment.
Cabot had apologised for not always keeping Mr G updated when he requested information. 
But it had offered to reduce all the debt balances by £100 - which  she thought  was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr G said he wanted an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr G has experienced financial difficulties over a long period  of time. This cant 
have been easy  and I understand why he wants clarity in respect of amounts he is being 
asked to repay. Im afraid I doubt  if Ill be able to go as far as he would wish and Ill explain 
why.
This service is an informal resolution service  - and whilst I take the law into account I do not 
apply it directly. This means its not for me to decide if Mr G owes  these debts or whether the 
debts are enforceable. Only a court can do that. My decision is based on if I think Cabot has 
treated Mr G fairly  and whether - based on the information that is available  - it has 
reasonable grounds for believing Mr G is the person responsible for repaying these debts.
In its final response letter  Cabot set out a full history  of the debts and as Mr G has seen this I 
dont need to repeat the details here.  That history showed Mr G had at various times been in 
contact with Cabot  and payment arrangements had been made for these debts.  And I can 
see payments have been made from all the accounts within  the last two years.
It seems  to me this is more than sufficient evidence to say that the debts are highly likely to 
be Mr Gs. So I think Cabot is entitled  to seek repayment.
Ref: DRN73936522Cabot has accepted that it hasnt  been able to provide Mr G with all the documentation hes 
requested - and that might have  implications for the enforceability of a debt. I can see Cabot 
explained this in its final response  letter. Whilst there may at this time be insufficient 
evidence to start a court case  that does not mean  Cabot cannot  use other methods of 
collection.
So whilst I know it will disappoint Mr G I dont think Cabot has done anything  wrong in asking 
him to repay these  debts. And I shant be asking it to stop collection activity - or write  the 
debts off.
As its offered to reduce  the balance on each  of Mr Gs accounts by £100 - to reflect its been 
unable to obtain all the information Mr G requested - I think that is fair and reasonable.  So I 
shant be asking Cabot  to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint but only in part. 
Cabot Credit Management Group Limited  has already made an offer to reduce the balance 
on each of Mr Gs accounts  by £100  - £300  in total.  And I think  this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My decision  is:
Cabot Credit Management Group Limited  should  reduce the balance on each of Mr Gs three 
accounts by £100 - a total credit  of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7393652