K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the service that AXA Insurance  UK Plc provided after a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.  She wants a refund  of her premium and compensation for her ruined 
Christmas.
background
Mrs Hs cars  rear window was smashed and she said items  were stolen from the car. She 
contacted AXA but she said she wasnt helped. So she had another  company attend and put 
a crash wrap  on the car, costing £240.  Mrs H later arranged for AXAs approved  repairer to 
attend to replace the glass, but he had the wrong  piece. So he had to attend again a few 
days later.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
mistakes had happened, but given the busy holiday period, AXAs  level of service  had been  
reasonable. It had reimbursed the £240  and waived the £60 policy excess  which she thought 
was fair and reasonable.
Mrs H replied that shed had no support from AXA at the time of the incident.  She thought 
the holidays were  irrelevant and she should  have had a faster  response. She asked  for her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs H and her family  had a distressing and frightening experience  when their 
car was broken  into and their belongings stolen.  I was sorry to hear about this and about the 
effect it had on their holiday.
Mrs H was very disappointed by AXAs response. She said she didnt  realise AXA was the 
underwriter and so she called her broker at the time of the incident. I can see that in her 
policy its stated several  times  that AXA is her insurer,  although I can understand that Mrs H 
didnt notice this. Theres also clear information about the number to call in the case of 
windscreen replacement  or repairs.  
I havent been provided evidence from AXA about the service Mrs H was provided in trying 
to get someone  to repair her window. So I have no reason  to doubt what  Mrs H has told us, 
that she was confused  and passed  between AXA and the broker. 
Mrs Hs policy states that window replacement has an excess  of £60 and if the repairs  are 
made by AXAs supplier then cover  is unlimited.  But if she has repairs  made by her own 
supplier, then a limit of £185, less the excess,  applies. 
From her account I cant see that Mrs H was given clear information  about this at the time.  
But she ultimately had the repair made by the approved supplier, so she just had to pay the 
excess. 
Ref: DRN78395842In the meantime, Mrs H had sensibly made her car secure so that she could continue her 
journey and safeguard her car. Mrs H said she had to arrange this herself.  But I cant  see 
that this service is provided  under  her policy in the case of a window claim. So I cant say 
that AXA should have done  more here.  
Mrs H was disappointed  that AXA didnt respond  to her complaint and instead  sent the 
referral rights to our service. AXA said it had little involvement with the claim as Mrs H had 
largely spoken to her broker and the window  repairer. But I can see from AXAs records that 
it did have a contact  with Mrs H about her complaint.  It received her invoice for the 
temporary repair and agreed  to reimburse  this as well as waive  her policy  excess. I think  this 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as it restored Mrs Hs position.  I cant  require 
AXA to provide her with a written response. 
Mrs H wanted further compensation for her stress  and the spoilt holiday.  But I cant hold 
AXA responsible for the break  in or the theft. Mrs H secured  her car so she could continue 
her journey  and AXAs contractor then arranged a repair for three days later so the family 
could travel home. Given the holiday period,  I think this was fair and reasonable. 
Unfortunately the repairer brought the wrong glass and so a further appointment was 
required. But I think mistakes do happen and any claim  will involve some inconvenience.  I 
can appreciate Mrs Hs frustration, but I think AXAs refund  of her outlay and waiving her 
policy excess is sufficient compensation for the level of service she received. Its what Id 
require in similar circumstances. I dont require  AXA to do anything  further.
Mrs H said she decided not to claim on the policy for the stolen clothes. So I cant consider 
this point further here.   
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7839584