K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy 
alongside a loan.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2009.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. 
This is because I dont think Santander gave  Mr D clear enough  information  about the policy. 
I say this because  it has confirmed that, at the point  Mr D opted to buy PPI during the loan 
application process, it didnt say how much  PPI would cost. There was an online calculator 
that he could have used  but I dont think that by itself was good  enough  to count as 
sufficient information.  I also dont think the calculator, which  gave the total amount including  
PPI, was clear enough for Mr D to easily understand how much the PPI cost by itself.  This in 
itself all points to a mis-sale. But I also notice  that the sample  Welcome  Pack, which  
Santander has sent to me, does not have an easy way for the customer to change  their mind 
about taking PPI, once they see how much it costs. They  would have to make the effort  of 
re-contacting the lender,  cancelling  the PPI, and asking  for new documents.
I think the lack of easily understandable information  about costs and benefits would have 
mattered to Mr D. I say this because of his circumstances  at the time. Looking at his work 
sickness benefits and the other means he had to help pay his bills, I dont think Mr D would  
have thought the level of benefits worth  the monthly costs  of the PPI. I dont think hed have 
taken PPI. So, I think Mr D has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
 fair compensation
Santander UK Plc should put Mr D in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Santander UK Plc 
should:
Pay Mr D the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN75466132 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must  give Mr D a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
If Santander has already  repaid any commission amount to Mr D that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr D compensation  in accordance  with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7546613