K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Carnegie  Consumer Finance Limited (CCF)  wont let him withdraw 
from a fixed sum loan agreement he took to cover the cost of a course.
background
In September  2018 Mr B enrolled on a course  to become an electrician with a company Ill 
refer to as D. The course  cost a total of £7,800.  Mr B paid a £60 registration fee and applied 
for an interest free fixed sum loan of £7,740 with CCF to fund the course.
Mr B says his personal situation changed shortly  after and he no longer could complete the 
course. He told CCF this was due to him being self-employed and not having a regular  
income. He later told this service he didnt want to complete the course  as a company he did 
work for had enrolled him on a different professional course shortly after he enrolled  with D.
Mr B says he made all possible  attempts  to tell D he no longer wished to complete the 
course, but he couldnt get hold of anyone.  In November 2018, after being sent a letter 
asking him to make a repayment to the loan, Mr B complained to CCF. He said he wanted  to 
cancel the course  and loan, believing he shouldnt have to pay.
In December 2018 CCF issued its final response letter. It said it wasnt upholding  Mr Bs 
complaint. It said the documents Mr B received when  he enrolled in the course made it clear 
he had 14 days to cancel  the agreement. It said it hadnt seen any evidence  Mr B had told D 
within 14 days that he no longer wished to complete the course. It said the first time it 
believed Mr B had spoken  to D about cancellation was in November  2018,  But, it said it 
would consider any evidence Mr B had that showed  he did try to cancel the course within 14 
days. And, it said if he was struggling to make  the repayments it would be happy to discuss  
an arrangement with him.
Mr B was unhappy with this and referred  his complaint to our service.  After hed brought his 
complaint to us, Mr B sent in phone records that he said showed  he tried to cancel within  14 
days of enrolling. CCF wrote to Mr B and ourselves saying this didnt change its opinion, as 
Mr B had called  the wrong number.
Our service began to look into Mr Bs case. Our investigator didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
He said D had made it clear Mr B would need to cancel the agreement within 14 days. He 
didnt think Mr B had done so.
Mr B was unhappy with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional  Charges) 
Regulations 2013 CCR  are relevant to this complaint. These say a consumer can cancel 
certain contracts  which includes  Mr Bs  at any time in the cancellation  period.  The CCR 
Ref: DRN74225142says the cancellation period for Mr Bs contract  was for 14 days  after the day the contract  
was entered into.
Ive considered the documents Mr B received when he enrolled  in the course. Ive seen a 
copy of the registration  form  Mr B completed  when he applied.  In a box titled  IMPORTANT 
just above where  Mr B signed, point five out of seven says:
I have read clause 6 of the terms overleaf  and confirm that I understand my cancellation  
rights
Clause six of the terms says:
You will have  the right to terminate the self-study program as stated in the Notice  of the 
Right to Cancel the Contract Below
On the bottom  of these terms under a highlighted area called Notice of the Right  to Cancel  
the Contract it says:
If a contract  has been  entered into, you may cancel the contract at any time without cause 
within 14 calendar days beginning  with the day after the date of the contract
A contract is deemed cancelled provided  the cancellation is sent or otherwise notified to us 
within the 14 calendar day cancellation  period. If there is a dispute  as to whether  or not a 
contract has been cancelled you will need  to provide evidence of cancellation,  for example 
proof of posting
If you cancel the contract within the 14 calendar day cancellation period any related credit 
agreement will be automatically cancelled 
It then goes on to explain  that the contract can be cancelled by phone,  fax, email or by 
returning the cancellation  notice  which is included on the form.
Ive thought about this and I think the terms reflect  what the CCR says about 
Mr Bs cancellation rights.
Having considered what Mr B saw when he enrolled in the course, I think he wouldve 
understood he had 14 days to cancel  the agreement. Ive thought about whether he did this 
or not.
Ive considered what the CCR says about exercising  the right to withdraw or cancel. This 
says to cancel  a contract:
The consumer must inform the trader of the decision to cancel  it
In relation to how it should be cancelled the CCR says a consumer can:
make any other clear statement setting out the decision to cancel the contract
Mr B agreed to the contract on 7 September 2018.  He sent some phone records  which  show  
he called  someone  on 24 September and 19 October 2018. But, these calls were made 
more than 14 calendar days from the day after Mr B signed the contract. The first call shows 
Ref: DRN74225143as cancelled  and the second  call lasted  six seconds. And, the number called isnt the 
number given in the registration form to cancel.
I havent seen  any other  evidence  to suggest  Mr B contacted D, or CCF, by phone, email, 
fax or any other method  within 14 days of signing  up to the course. And, I havent seen 
anything to suggest he sent D the cancellation notice.
Its also worth noting that the CCR says:
In case of dispute it is for the consumer to show that the contract was cancelled  in the 
cancellation period in accordance with this regulation (emphasis added by myself).
So, Im satisfied its Mr Bs responsibility  to show he validly cancelled  the contract.
Thinking about  everything, I havent seen enough  to make me think  Mr B let D, or CCF, 
know he wanted to cancel the contract within 14 days. It follows  that I dont think  Mr B validly 
cancelled the contract. So, I dont think CCF did anything wrong  by not cancelling the 
associated finance.
Finally, I have considered  that Mr B has mentioned he would struggle to pay for the course.  
In its final response letter  CCF said it would consider an arrangement with Mr B to repay  the 
loan if he is struggling.  It might be prudent for Mr B to contact CCF to discuss  this. Id expect  
them to treat his situation positively and sympathetically if hes in financial difficulty.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7422514