K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr Ms car was involved in non fault incident  and he made a claim on his Aviva policy. It was 
repaired by Avivas authorised repairer. Mr M was unhappy with those repairs and as they 
werent satisfactory further rectification works  were required. He also thinks the car shouldve  
been written off. He is also unhappy  that his cars  value has been  adversely affected. 
Aviva said in its final response that its solicitors were recovering its costs  but this can be a 
lengthy process. Once a recovery is made  Mr M can claim back  the loss of value of his car 
from the third party insurer. Aviva had completed  repairs to his car at one of its approved  
repairers. But as he was dissatisfied with them and had some  rectification works done at his 
own garage it had reimbursed him for them on cash in lieu basis. And it couldnt accept 
responsibility for that garages work if he wasnt happy with it. The original repairs  shouldve  
been done to an acceptable standard and it apologised if rectification  work was needed. It 
was paying £100 compensation for this.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The policy says Aviva can decide  whether to pay to have the damage  repaired or to 
pay to replace what is lost or damaged. Here theres no evidence  the car wasnt 
economically repairable or should have been  dealt with on a total loss basis. Mr M is 
concerned with the loss of value of his car but that isnt something Aviva  would cover.   
Although it may be Mr M can pursue  that against  the third party as an uninsured  loss.
When some problems  were identified with the original repairs Aviva arranged  for an 
inspection and the costs of the repairs at Mr Ms garage were reimbursed. Further 
repairs were dealt  with on a cash in lieu basis and were outside Avivas  control.   
When more problems  were reported  Aviva  said it couldnt  assist as the previous 
repairs were organised by Mr M and as they were  three  years  after the incident it was 
likely they were  caused by wear  and tear. But it made a £100  payment to Mr M as he 
was disappointed with the original  repair.
Mr M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Under the terms of the policy Aviva is entitled  to decide whether or not to repair  Mr Ms car 
or to deal with it on a total loss basis. Here  theres  nothing to suggest an economic repair 
couldnt reasonably be carried out.
Mr M says the car shouldve been  written  off and he disagrees with Avivas decision to repair  
the car. But I dont  think its failed  to comply with the policy terms or exercised its discretion 
unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to repair the car as it did.
Ref: DRN74015802Its unfortunate that the repairs werent  entirely  satisfactory. And I think Aviva  has dealt with 
matters fairly by arranging  some  rectification  works and paying cash  in lieu for some other 
repairs carried out at Mr Ms garage. 
As Aviva has said it isnt responsible for any subsequent issues with the work done by Mr 
Ms garage. And it also isnt responsible for dealing with any issues arising from wear  and 
tear or to cover any suggested  loss of value to the car.
Aviva has already paid Mr M £100  compensation for the disappointment  he experienced in 
the way the original repairs  were carried out by its approved repairer. Taking  everything into 
account, including the level of awards we make, I think that is fair. And although I recognise 
Mr Ms strength of feeling  and frustration, I dont  think  I can reasonably  require Aviva  to pay 
or do anything more, including dealing with any further issues with the car or declaring it a 
total loss, as hed like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7401580