K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Volkswagen Finance, and that the 
agreement was mis-sold to him.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement  with Volkswagen Finance 
that he signed in June  2016. He complained to Volkswagen Finance in April 2019 about the 
interest rate payable  under the agreement and about the term of the agreement.  He wasnt  
satisfied with its response so he complained to this service. Hes also complained  about  
other issues including that the car wasnt new when  it was delivered to him, that he didnt 
receive the discount that hed been  offered by the dealer and his contribution wasnt  dealt 
with correctly.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He concluded, 
having looked at the circumstances  of this complaint in its entirety,  that he hadnt seen 
evidence to suggest that Volkswagen Finance had done anything wrong.
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that:
he was told that the APR would be 4.9%  and he wouldnt  have taken the agreement  
if hed known that it wouldnt be at that rate as other lenders were offering rates 
under 5%;
the car had been driven for 160 miles when  it was supplied  to him and he received  a 
reminder for road tax and an MOT test on the car when it was delivered which he 
thinks proves that it wasnt a new car; and
there was a fault with one of the windows and he took the car to the dealer six or 
seven times for a repair before his friend  fixed it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F ordered a new car from a dealer in June 2016 and he signed a new vehicle order  form 
which showed that the basic price  of the car was £8,145.83, that price was then discounted 
by £750 to £7,787.49  before  extras,  VAT, delivery  and road fund licence were added  which  
took the price  to £10,868. The order form says that £9,337 was to be financed and the 
balance of the price  was paid by the value of a car that Mr F traded in and deposits that he 
paid. 
He signed a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Finance seven days  later and he 
also signed a pre-contractual explanations checklist. By signing the agreement  he declared  
that he:  agree[d] to be legally bound by the Terms of this Agreement  ha[d] received a 
document headed Pre-Contract Credit Information relating  to this Agreement and a copy of 
this Agreement  .
Ref: DRN70749292The agreement said that the car was new, that its price was £10,868 from which an advance  
payment of £1,531 was deducted to give an amount of credit of £9,337   which  is consistent  
with the amount of finance shown  on the order form. 
The agreement said:
The Rate of Interest  (calculated in the same way as the APR,  but excluding  fees)  is 
9.35% pa. This rate is fixed for the duration of this Agreement. The interest rate 
payable is calculated at the outset of the Agreement and is included  in the monthly  
repayments stated  below. The APR is 9.4%.
Mr F agreed  to make 48 monthly repayments of £166.96 for the car followed by a final 
payment of £3,780 payable 48 months  after the date set for the first repayment.
So I consider that the agreement clearly showed that the APR was 9.4% and that the term of 
the agreement  was four years. I also consider that the order form showed the discount that 
had been applied by the dealer and the contributions that had been made by Mr F. Im not 
persuaded that theres any evidence to support  Mr Fs claim that the interest  rate was 4.9% 
or that the agreement was for three  years. 
Mr F signed the agreement but accepts that he didnt  read it before signing it. I consider that 
its reasonable to expect  him to have  read the agreement  before signing it and, if it didnt 
reflect the terms that he had agreed  with the dealer  or that he didnt understand it, it would 
be reasonable to expect  him not to have signed it. 
Mr F complained to Volkswagen Finance about  the agreement in April 2019  nearly  three 
years after hed signed it. Since then hes also complained that the car wasnt  new when it 
was supplied to him and about a fault with the cars  window. 
I consider that the car that was supplied to Mr F was a new car and that its more likely  than 
not that any mileage  on it when it was delivered to him was delivery mileage. If Mr F wasnt 
happy with the car when he received it, I consider that it would be reasonable to expect  him 
to have raised any concerns with the dealer  or Volkswagen Finance soon after it was 
delivered to him. Im not persuaded  that its likely that he would have waited nearly three 
years to make such a complaint.
Mr F has also complained about  some  issues with the cars windows. The dealer says that 
the car was returned to it twice regarding  the windows for a diagnosis and a repair  under 
warranty. Mr F accepts  that the issue has now been repaired (though he says that his friend  
repaired it) and that he wasnt charged  by the dealer for the repair.
Mr F has complained about a range  of issues with the car, the agreement  and the way that 
the agreement  was sold to him. But Im not persuaded  that hes provided enough evidence 
to show that Volkswagen Finance has dealt  with him incorrectly  or that the agreement  was 
mis-sold to him. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me 
to require it to take any action  in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN70749293Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7074929