K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs L took out a joint personal  loan. They also had PPI to protect the loan 
repayments in the event  Mr L couldnt  work.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
Mr and Mrs L mainly  complain that they didnt need  PPI as they both had adequate work 
benefits and they couldve relied  on family.  They say that theyre unhappy  as they paid for 
something they didnt  ask for and werent aware  they had. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The PPI policy just covered Mr L, but as the loan was in Mr and Mrs Ls joint names, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  when the loan was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Here are my reasons.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs L are sure about  what theyve told us they recall  about the sale 
 but this happened a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them  to have 
remembered everything. So I have to decide  what I think is most likely, taking into account  
all the information  Ive got and the wider  circumstances. 
Theres very limited information  available  I cant be sure how the policy  was presented  
during any discussions. And none of the paperwork that wouldve been completed at the 
time of the sale is available. But, given  the length  of time thats passed since then, thats  
unsurprising. And the fact that Lloyds cant supply  the loan documentation isnt a reason for 
me to uphold this complaint. Based on the information Ive seen, I cant  fairly say that the 
policy wasnt presented  as optional or that Mr and Mrs L were unaware PPI was being taken 
out with the loan.
Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. So, in fairness  to them,  it looked  at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended  PPI during the 
meeting Mr and Mrs L recalled having  at the bank.  Given the lack of paperwork showing how 
Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, I think this is the fairest way to assess  this complaint as 
it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a recommendation about 
PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important policy information in a clear  way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Ref: DRN76314222Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date when 
Mr and Mrs L took out their loan.  But it has provided  a policy  document which  was in use 
shortly afterwards. So I think  its likely that the policy Mr and Mrs L took out wouldve had 
substantially the same terms and conditions.
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ls situation 
at the time. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Ive been  told about Mr Ls work  benefits. But it 
looks like the PPI wouldve covered the monthly  loan repayments  for up to 12 months per 
claim if Mr L lost his job. No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. So the policy  
couldve provided them with useful additional security at what  is likely to have been a 
worrying time if Mr L lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  And repeat claims were  
possible, so the policy offered Mr and Mrs L long term protection  whilst they were repaying 
this borrowing.
If hed made  a successful  accident or sickness claim, the policy  wouldve paid out for as long 
as Mr L was off work  if necessary,  until the loan was paid off. So the policy  gave 
Mr and Mrs L significantly better cover than if theyd just been relying on Mr Ls sick pay from 
his employer.  
Mr and Mrs L dont appear  to have had any significant other  means they couldve depended 
on if Mr L wasnt working. Relying on someone  else to help out in the event of money 
problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. 
And, as the loan was taken out when both Mr and Mrs L were working, I think  its likely that 
Mrs L mightve found it hard to keep up the loan monthly repayments for long on top of all 
the other household expenses if only she was working  or if Mr L faced additional  expenses  
as a result  of disability  or illness. So, despite what Mr and Mrs L feel, I find PPI couldve  
been useful in their particular  circumstances  and a recommendation wouldve been suitable.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the policy  to cover Mr L and so appear to 
have wanted this type of cover. Ive seen nothing that suggests to me that Mr L wasnt  
eligible for the cover or that he wouldve  been affected by any of the main  things  the policy 
didnt cover. I dont  know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs L when  they bought 
the policy. But from what Ive seen, they havent  suggested that they couldnt afford the 
monthly premiums. And, as they paid for the policy each month, they couldve  cancelled it at 
any time without incurring any further costs if they changed their minds about  having it or no 
longer wanted  to pay for it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs L have lost out as a result  of anything Lloyds 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN76314223my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7631422