K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that a used car she got with finance provided by FirstRand  Bank  Limited 
(trading as MotoNovo  Finance) was of unsatisfactory  quality. 
Miss M is represented by a relative, but Ill refer to anything thats  been  said on her behalf as 
if Miss M had said it herself  - to keep things  simple. 
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 November 2019  a copy of this decision is attached  and forms part of my 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I explained what  Id decided about  this complaint 
and what I intended  to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.
Miss M accepted my provisional  findings.  She supplied paperwork that indicates  she paid a 
deposit of £500 for this car. Our investigator sent this to MotoNovo  so it had the chance to 
comment. MotoNovo  accepted my provisional  decision  and it hasnt objected  to refunding 
the £500 deposit.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the responses received from the parties,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions  except to clarify that the amount of the deposit which should be 
refunded is £500.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and require FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance) to 
1.take the car back at no cost to Miss M and cancel the finance with nothing further 
owing;
2.refund  the deposit of £500;
3.refund  any payments  made towards the finance from March 2018;
4.refund/pay garage costs incurred by Miss M after 8 March 2018  in respect of repair 
attempts and storage - upon receipt  of relevant invoices/proof of payment from 
Miss M;
5.if it has not already  done so, refund the cost of the experts report;
6.pay interest on the refunds above at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement;
7.remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ms credit file; and 
8.pay Miss M £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
If MotoNovo considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest referred to above, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN71749342Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71749343copy provisional decision
complaint
Miss M complains that a used car she got with finance provided by FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance)  was of unsatisfactory  quality. 
Miss M is represented by a relative, but Ill refer to anything thats been said on her behalf as if Miss M 
had said it herself - to keep things simple.  
background
Miss M got this car in August 2017 with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from MotoNovo. Seven 
months later a light came on in the car and it was taken  to a local garage. That garage told Miss M 
that the engine would need to be replaced  - as it looked as if the oil had never been changed which 
caused extensive damage. 
Miss M contacted MotoNovo  but it didnt  think there was enough evidence to show that the car was 
faulty at the outset and wouldnt accept liability. It sent Miss M some information about independent  
experts who might be able to inspect the car and provide a report.  
Miss M arranged  for one of those experts to check the car. He agreed the engine is damaged and 
needs replacing. He thought the engine  should  have  lasted  much longer and the damage had 
probably resulted from accelerated wear due to long term maintenance failures.  Miss M sent a copy of 
the experts report to MotoNovo but it didnt  accept  responsibility. 
MotoNovo said (in summary): 
the expert highlighted the significance of past servicing but this car was supplied without a 
service history and Miss M knew that - so she accepted the risk that the car might not have 
been maintained  previously;
it would have  been  reasonable for Miss M to have the car serviced soon  after sale in these  
circumstances - but she didnt; and
Miss M was able to drive the car around 5,000 miles after supply which  shows it was of 
satisfactory quality when  she got it and her failure to maintain resulted  in engine damage. 
MotoNovo agreed  to refund  the cost of the experts report and offered to pay Miss M £150 as a 
goodwill gesture. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the matter  and he recommends the complaint should  be upheld.  
He thinks its likely this car was faulty at the point of supply - based on the conclusions of the 
independent expert. He doesnt  think the fact that Miss M accepted the car without a service  history 
means it was fair or reasonable to supply  a car with a developing and progressive fault. Hes satisfied 
the car needs a new engine and he doesnt think repair is a reasonable option at this stage. He says 
Motonovo should: 
take the car back at no cost to Miss M; 
cancel the finance  with nothing further to pay;
refund all of the payments that Miss M has made since 8 March 2018 and remove any arrears  
accumulated during  this period;
refund garage  costs incurred after 8 March 2018 relating to repair attempts and storage - 
upon receipt of related invoices  from Miss M;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to the HPA; and 
pay Miss M £200 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
MotoNovo doesnt think this is fair. It asked  for an ombudsman to review the matter and says (in 
summary):
Ref: DRN71749344the third party garage found there was barely any oil present  and low oil levels can cause  
significant damage over a relatively  short period so Miss Ms use of the car and negligence in 
not having it serviced contributed to the engine  failure;
the expert found faults were developing  at point  of sale but he also said excessive crankcase 
pressure had affected  the engine  and this was caused by a lack of maintenance and/or  poor 
or missed servicing - so Miss M should be accountable for that;
the expert said the car had only achieved about a third of its normal life expectancy which  is 
questionable as this depends on the way a car is maintained and driven;  and
garages and testing  stations  have  been required to check the diesel particulate filter (DPF) as 
part of the MOT  test since February 2014  and this car passed in 2016 and 2017 without any 
problems.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.   
MotoNovo supplied  this car to Miss M under  a finance agreement. So it was required to ensure  that 
the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).  
MotoNovo says Miss M was able to drive the car for about  5,000  miles after supply which shows  it 
was of satisfactory quality when she got it. She also knew the car didnt have a service history so she 
accepted the associated risk and then damaged the engine by failing to have the car serviced within  
six months of getting it. 
the lack of service  history
I must take the relevant law (amongst other things) into account when I make  my decision. I am 
satisfied that MotoNovo was required to ensure  that this car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply - and that obligation  cannot generally be excluded  or restricted  under the CRA. 
Miss M has confirmed  that she knew this car did not have a full service history. If I understand 
MotoNovo correctly, I think it suggests this should impact on the level of quality she could reasonably 
expect of this car. 
I dont think its unusual for used cars to have some  or all of the service  history missing  - evidence 
that a car has been serviced can be lost or mislaid.  And I cant fairly find that simply  telling a customer 
theres no service history  available means that consumer  is deemed to accept that a car wasnt 
maintained - and appreciate  the impact that this may have on durability in particular. 
Miss M says the salesman  here assured  her that this car had been checked and was in good 
condition. And she relied on that when she accepted the car and agreed to take out the finance.  I 
cant be certain what was said exactly at the time. But, if a consumer  like Miss M was told that a 
vehicle had no service  history and it was being supplied  without even the most basic  of pre-sale 
checks - and she understood and accepted the associated risk (as MotoNovo seems to be suggesting  
here) - I would expect to see this not only documented very carefully but also reflected in the price  
paid. 
I have seen nothing  to show thats  what  happened  here. Im not persuaded that the lack of service 
history should  have  alerted  Miss M to the fact there was a maintenance  problem - or means she 
should have had this car serviced sooner - in these  particular circumstances. And I see no fair or 
reasonable grounds  to find MotoNovo should be relieved of its obligation  to supply goods of 
satisfactory quality, in this situation. 
was the car of satisfactory quality? 
Ref: DRN71749345The level of quality that is satisfactory  will vary according to individual circumstances but its generally 
reasonable to consider  the cost, mileage  and age at the point  of supply  in the case  of a used car. 
Miss M got this car in August 2017. It was about four years old and cost just over £10,000  with around 
92,000 miles  on the clock. I think a reasonable person would appreciate that a car like this was not 
likely to be perfect - there would  be some wear and tear present and parts  would  need to be repaired 
or replaced sooner  or later.  
As far as I can see, Miss M didnt have any issues with the car until March 2018 when the oil warning  
light came  on. I acknowledge shed been able to drive  the car about 5,000 miles by this stage. Thats  
a bit less than the average mileage - of around 1,000 miles a month.  And I think  this issue would 
probably have been apparent sooner  - within  six months - if the car had been driven by an average 
driver. I am not persuaded  that the fact Miss M was able to drive  as far as she did means  there was 
no fault present  at the point of supply.
When the car was taken  to a local garage, it found significant engine  damage and evidence which 
suggested oil had never been  changed.  The independent expert who inspected  the car concluded 
(essentially) that lack of servicing  over the long term had probably caused this problem. He said 
(insofar as its relevant here)
the vast majority of the wear presentcausing the over pressurisation of the crankcase, will have 
been developing prior to the point of [supply]the condition may have been difficult  to identify at 
commencement but [it] was developing  [and]..lack of servicing [has caused] internal engine issues 
which would, on the balance of probability, have been developing to a certain  extent at purchase.  The 
condition is progressive over an extended  period [and] the vast majority of the wear present  which .. 
[caused] the fault..will  have been developing  prior to the point  of hire commencement. The condition  
under review is not the type to have solely  developed in the hire period without substantial  
deterioration at the point of hire. 
Im satisfied the expert is independent and seems to have relevant expertise and experience. His 
report is fairly detailed and I think it seems to be thorough. I find it reasonable to give some weight to 
what he says. I have  considered what MotoNovo says about the DPF and MOT checks but I am not 
persuaded this means the experts conclusions  are wrong. 
On balance, I think  it is more likely than not this car had significant engine damage and that was 
caused by a failure to service and/or maintain  the vehicle over some time - before it was supplied to 
Miss M. So, Ive given some thought as to whether this means that a car of this age and mileage was 
of unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply.  
As I explained above,  I think  its usually accepted that there will be some wear and tear present when  
a consumer acquires a used car. But, I dont think most people would expect to have to replace the 
engine in a four year old car - even one that had 92,000 miles on the clock  - after just seven months.  
And I am satisfied its likely this car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
putting things right
Under the CRA a supplier like MotoNovo  may be entitled to have one opportunity  to arrange for 
repairs in this situation. And I can see that MotoNovo  looked  into the cost of that after Miss M supplied 
the experts report. I am satisfied Miss M instructed this expert because  MotoNovo told her it wouldnt 
accept liability without further  evidence. Miss M duly supplied MotoNovo  with a report  from an 
independent expert that says the car had a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply 
but MotoNovo continued  to reject  her complaint. For the reasons Ive explained  already, I dont think  
that was fair. 
Im conscious  Miss M has now been without this car for some considerable time. It looks as if the 
repairs required  are significant and likely  to delay matters further. I am not persuaded its reasonable 
to expect Miss M to have to wait for this car to be fixed in these particular circumstances. I am inclined 
Ref: DRN71749346to agree with our adjudicator and find MotoNovo should allow Miss M to reject the car and cancel  the 
finance. 
The paperwork I have  seen says Miss M didnt pay a deposit  when she got the car - if thats not right I 
would be grateful  if the parties  could please let me know. 
It looks as if Miss M was able to drive the car without any problems until March  2018.  I think  its 
reasonable she should  pay for that use, so Im not going to ask MotoNovo to refund  payments due for 
the period from August 2017 until March  2018. 
I am satisfied  however that Miss M wasnt able to use this car after that. And I am minded to find 
MotoNovo should refund  any payments Miss M made towards the finance from (and including) March 
2018. I consider  MotoNovo  should also remove any adverse information recorded about the finance 
from Miss Ms credit  file. 
If Miss M has incurred diagnostic, storage or associated charges as a result  of having the car checked 
by her local garage then I think  MotoNovo  should pay for that as well - provided  Miss M is able to 
supply relevant invoices/proof of payment.  If Miss M is able to provide this evidence in response  to 
these provisional findings  that would be helpful - as it should  mean  Ill be able to deal with any refund 
due specifically  in my final decision. 
I am satisfied  that Miss M is likely to have  experienced distress and inconvenience as a result  of 
being supplied with this faulty car. And I find it fair that MotoNovo should pay her an additional £200 
compensation to reflect that. 
I now invite  both parties to consider my provisional  findings  and let me have any further comments or 
additional evidence by the date below. After that Ill consider all of the available  evidence and make 
my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 22 November  2019,  my 
provisional decision  is I intend  to uphold this complaint  and require FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as 
MotoNovo Finance)  to 
1take the car back at no cost to Miss M and cancel  the finance with nothing further to pay;
2refund any deposit  (if one was paid);
3refund any payments  made towards  the finance from March  2018;
4refund/pay garage costs  incurred  by Miss M after 8 March 2018 in respect of repair attempts 
and storage - upon  receipt of relevant invoices/proof  of payment from Miss M;
5if it has not already  done, so refund  the cost of the experts report;
6pay interest on the refunds above  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
7remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ms credit file; and 
8pay Miss M £200 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN7174934