K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  has unfairly declined their 
claim on their building and contents  insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their policy after their dog was unwell and fouled  in the 
house. Mr M said hes been able to clean the majority of the mess but the blood within the 
faeces stained  the carpet.  Mr and Mrs M has asked UKI to fix this damage under their 
insurance.
UKI said it wont pay the claim as the damage was caused by something which is specifically  
excluded under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M said the stain  damage to the carpet is a result of the blood, and not the 
faeces. Our investigator looked at the complaint and said he didnt think UKI had been unfair 
to rely on its exclusion. And although it is the blood stain  that remains,  this is as a result of 
the fouling which is specifically excluded. So he didnt think it would be fair to ask UKI to 
cover this.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and said if their dog had simply cut itself the blood  stain  could be 
covered. So it isnt fair to decline this claim because of how the blood got into the carpet.  
The case  has been passed to me for a final decision  because Mr and Mrs M disagree with 
the outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint   
for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know this is not the answer Mr and Mrs M 
were hoping for, but Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ms policy to see whether I feel UKI has applied this fairly  when 
considering the claim. The relevant section that has been quoted  to Mr and Mrs M previously  
is under  the section headed This policy doesnt  cover  on page seven of the policy booklet. 
It says the following:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:..
Tearing, scratching, chewing, vomiting, fouling, urinating or denting by any domestic animal
Mr and Mrs M told us their dog fouled  on the carpet   and this was as a result of it being 
unwell at the time  out of character with its normal behaviour. However, the policy doesnt 
specify occasions when  damage caused as a result  of fouling by a domestic  animal might be 
covered. It simply excludes  all damage  caused as a result of this.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs M have said about a claim not being  excluded if their 
dog had been cut  leading to a blood stain.
Ref: DRN71920852Ive thought about this and whether I think UKI needs to do anything  differently. I understand 
the frustration with the damage and how this has happened. But I dont think  UKI has acted 
unfairly in not paying the claim. The examples Mr and Mrs M have given are examples of a 
different event and the cover for these may well be different. 
The event here is the damage to Mr and Mrs Ms carpet resulting from their dog fouling  on it. 
While it is unfortunate it was unwell and as a result the damage may be more long lasting, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask UKI to pay the claim. As the action causing  the damage 
was the dog fouling and this is specially excluded within  the policy. 
Overall, I dont  think UKI has been  unfair  in declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  insert  5 March 2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7192085