K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK plc wont  extend the term of their mortgage  for a 
short time. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Abbey, now Santander, in 2007. It was set up over a 
term of ten years, payable on an interest-only  basis. Mr and Mrs B made the contractual  
monthly payments  to the mortgage, and there were no arrears.
The mortgage term was due to end in September 2017. In June 2017, Mr and Mrs B wrote  to 
Santander explaining their circumstances and asking  for a short term extension.  They 
wanted an extra two years, to tie in with Mr Bs planned retirement date, or ideally three 
years to give them time to sort out a move they planned to make.  
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt receive a reply.  So they wrote to Santander  again  in October 
2017  but it turned down  their request. It insisted that they make an application and go 
through a financial  assessment. 
Mr and Mrs B complained. They felt an assessment of their finances would be intrusive and 
they didnt want  credit searches done. They also said that extending the term as they wanted 
wouldnt disadvantage Santander. They could comfortably afford to continue making 
payments of interest,  there  was considerable equity in the property, and they werent  asking 
to borrow more money.
Santander still wanted to see an application and consider Mr and Mrs Bs finances before it 
would agree to an extension, so Mr and Mrs B got in touch with us. 
Our investigator thought Santanders approach was reasonable, and that it was entitled to 
ask Mr and Mrs B to make an application.  He also found it had replied to Mr and Mrs Bs 
June 2017 letter. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with that conclusion. They thought  that neither the 
investigator nor Santander  had taken proper account of their particular circumstances, or 
that they had asked  for  and Santander  had failed  to consider  an extension before the 
mortgage term had come to an end. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise this isnt 
the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator did, for much the same reasons.
Circumstances can and do change, and I recognise  that Mr and Mrs B couldnt have 
foreseen when  they took out this mortgage in 2007 how their plans would  change. 
Nevertheless, the starting point here is that they agreed when they took the mortgage out to 
repay it at the end of the term in September 2017. 
I can also understand why Mr and Mrs B see a short term extension  as a sensible option   
rather than selling their home and then having  to move twice, selling their investment 
property with the tax implications that brings,  or releasing equity for a short  time. None of this 
means, though,  that Santander should necessarily agree to their proposals without question.  
Ref: DRN73955202While Mr and Mrs B are very confident that they can afford  to continue paying the mortgage 
on an interest-only basis, I think its reasonable for Santander to want  to satisfy  itself that 
thats the case as well, particularly given that one borrower has already reached their 
planned retirement age of 70.
Mr and Mrs B are right to say that Santander doesnt  have to carry out an affordability 
assessment in their circumstances,  and it should be thinking about what  is in their best 
interests. Importantly, though, I dont think Santander has refused to extend  the mortgage  
term. It has simply said it wants to consider their financial situation  before it makes that 
decision. The relevant rules  it has to follow provide for it to do this  even though Mr and Mrs 
B had asked for an extension before the mortgage term ended. And it may not of course  be 
in a borrowers best interests to continue  with a mortgage if they cant  afford to do so.  
For these reasons, I dont  consider the fair outcome is for me now to require Santander to 
extend the term. If Mr and Mrs B choose  to make  an application, I would  expect Santander 
to give it proper consideration. If they go ahead with this and feel theyre  not being treated 
fairly, they may be able to ask us to look into that as a fresh complaint. I would also expect  
Santander to exercise  reasonable forbearance  should Mr and Mrs B now be selling their 
property. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7395520