K820x#14complaint
Miss B is unhappy First Underwriting Limited trading  as Xpekt  has deducted recovery  and 
storage charges from a claim she made under  her motor insurance  policy.
Miss Bs broker has been acting as her representative but for ease  of reading I will refer to 
Miss B throughout my decision. 
background
In early January  2019 Miss Bs car was damaged when she skidded off the road and hit a 
tree. No other car was involved in the accident.  Miss B said as the damage appeared to be 
minimal; she wanted to get it repaired without claiming on her motor insurance policy.  Miss B 
arranged for her car to be recovered  and taken to a garage, with the expectation they would 
quote for the repair. Miss B said it was £125 for her car to be recovered.
Six days later, Miss B made a claim against  her motor insurance policy with Xpekt as she 
said the cost of repair was likely to be greater than at first thought.
Xpekt said due to the age and reported damage  to Miss Bs car it would most likely be a total 
loss (beyond economical repair). And so, they wanted to recover  the car from the garage as 
they were able to offer free storage as part of Miss Bs policy. 
The garage wouldnt release the car to Xpekt  without Miss Bs permission. And this wasnt  
given until 14 days after the accident. The garage invoiced Xpekt  £600  for recovery  and 19 
days storage - £27 per day plus VAT,  a total of £1335.60.  
Xpekt said they would  cover the cost of the storage fees from when Miss B had given them  
permission to recover her car from the garage. So, deducted £600 for the cost of the 
recovery and 14 days storage costs - £27per day plus VAT from Miss Bs final settlement.
 
Miss B didnt think this was fair, as shed left her car at the garage expecting to get a quote 
for repairs from them and didnt think she was being  charged for storage. She said Xpekt 
had deducted  too much from her settlement.
Our investigator said Xpekt, after being  told about  the accident, tried to recover  Miss Bs car 
to mitigate any further loss. But without Miss Bs permission the garage wouldnt release the 
car to them. He said Xpekt wasnt responsible  for paying the recovery and storage charges  
that had been incurred.
Miss B didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not unusual  for me to need to decide a case where its simply not possible to know 
exactly what happened. And there  does seem  to be a dispute  about what  the garage and 
Miss B said would and wouldnt  be charged. But in making my decision I need to determine  
Ref: DRN70103032whether Xpekt has acted  fairly in the way it has handled the claim based on the information  
provided. And in line with the terms and conditions  of Miss Bs motor insurance policy.  
Miss B said she thought  the damage  to her car was minimal and so wanted  to get it repaired 
without making a claim on her insurance policy. But Miss Bs policy says:
Please call within 24 hours of the accident,  but ideally within 1 hour. This is regardless of 
whether you wish to make  a claim under the policy or not.
And
Please call within 24 hours of the accident,  but ideally within 1 hour. You may be entitled to 
a FREE courtesy vehicle,  FREE collection and delivery..
So, Miss B could have  let Xpekt handle the claim on the day of the accident  even though  she 
didnt want to make a claim on her policy. Had she done so, shed probably  have  had free 
recovery. But Miss B instead  arranged  for her car to be recovered  and taken to a local 
garage, with the expectation  of getting her car repaired. But I dont think  Miss B realised the 
implications of doing this.
Miss B reported the accident  to her broker on the day it happened  but told them  she hoped 
to sort it out herself. As outlined above  the expectation on Miss B is to tell her insurer  even if 
she isnt going  to make a claim. 
In reporting the accident  Xpekt was told the car had been recovered,  at a cost of £125 and 
was being stored at a garage. And that the garage had said it was most likely to be a write 
off. Miss Bs policy says:
If your vehicle is uneconomical to repair and is declared a total loss, we reserve the right to 
move it to a place of free and safe storage pending  settlement  of your claim.
Miss B told Xpekt the garage wasnt charging for storage and that she didnt want the car to 
be moved.
But on checking, Xpekt found  that this wasnt correct and storage fees were being  charged.  
Miss Bs policy doesnt provide cover  in respect  of storage charges. But it says that if her car 
is a total loss, Xpekt can get it moved to a place  of free and safe storage as soon as 
possible. But Xpekt was prevented from doing  this as Miss B didnt give her permission for 
the garage to release the car until 14 days after the accident.
I can see Xpekt in seeking  Miss Bs permission made it clear that any settlement would be 
affected by the fees that were being  charged. 
I know Miss B is very upset and doesnt  agree  with the way Xpekt settled her claim as the 
amount for recovery and storage  is more than she thought it would be. The garage  invoiced 
Xpekt £600 for the recovery  of Miss Bs car and 19 days storage at £27 per day.
Miss B had said the recovery  would be £125.  But the garage charged £600; this was 
because they said it had been a difficult, out of hours recovery. And the road had been  
closed off as the police had been  involved.  The garage also stored Miss Bs car for 19 days.  
But Xpekt has accepted responsibility  for the storage charges from the day Miss B gave her 
Ref: DRN70103033permission for her car to be released.  So, Xpekt  deducted the recovery charge and 14 days  
storage fees from Miss Bs settlement.  
As outlined  above,  if Miss B had arranged for her car to be recovered by her insurer  rather 
than the garage, I dont think she would have incurred these charges. And it was her choice 
to choose the garage rather than her insurer. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold Xpekt  
responsible for the charges incurred up to the point Miss B gave her permission for them to 
recover her car. 
So, Im satisfied Xpekt has been  fair and reasonable and have acted  in line with the policy.  I 
dont think they need to do any more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7010303