K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy because  AIG Europe  Limited  has declined a claim he made under the 
personal accident section of his travel insurance  policy. 
background
In 2014 Mr L was abroad when he was involved in an accident causing a serious injury to his 
spine and leading  to loss of use of his lower limbs. AIG assisted Mr L with his repatriation to 
the UK and he subsequently made a claim on the personal accident section of the policy. 
This offered a cash  benefit of £30 000 in the event of permanent and total disability. AIG 
considered the claim in 2014 but said they would need to reassess Mr Ls claim in three  
years time, once the rehabilitation period had elapsed.
In 2015 Mr L started a university course with a view to pursuing  a career  in a specific  field of 
design. He explained that he dropped  out of the course after a few days, mainly due to 
fatigue he experienced and the difficulty in fitting in his ongoing physiotherapy routine. 
Once the three year period had passed,  AIG assessed Mr L to determine whether he met 
the policy definition  of permanent and total disability. They arranged for Mr L to be assessed 
by an Occupational  Health Chartered Physiotherapist. Based on the findings of the report  
the claim was declined as, in summary,  the physiotherapist concluded Mr L had sufficient 
functionality to complete  the university  course and start a career in his chosen field. 
Mr L didnt agree and pointed  to a number of issues  with the report. For example, he didnt 
think the report had taken into account  his fatigue, there were some disputes  about the 
context and factual  errors  and he thought  it should have been carried out by a neurological 
specialist. The expert reviewed Mr Ls comment but it didnt change  his thoughts about 
Mr Ls ability to complete his course and start a career in his chosen field.  So AIG continued 
to decline the claim.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think it was unreasonable for AIG 
to decline the claim,  based on the wording  of the policy  and the content of the expert report. 
So he didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L didnt agree  and asked an ombudsman to review  
the complaint.  In summary, he said: 
The report didnt sufficiently take into account  fatigue when assessing his ability to 
complete the course
He is not worked since  September 2017 and has to factor  in a lot of time for rest and 
maintaining his physical mobility  
The expert wasnt right about  the physical demands of his intended career  and the  
report didnt take into account how career progression might  impact on this
An occupational  physiotherapist  wasnt a suitable expert to comment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78569852I appreciate that Mr L, and his family,  have faced many challenges since  his accident in 
2014. I dont doubt that this has been  a stressful and difficult period of time for them all. I can 
also see from the information Mr L has provided that he has approached the impact  of his 
injuries on his day to day life with remarkable  courage, resilience and positivity.  And its 
entirely to his credit that hes taken a number  of opportunities  to fundraise and support other 
people experiencing similar  challenges. 
the relevant policy  terms
The policy terms say AIG will pay up to £30 000 if the policyholder is involved in an accident 
during their trip which  solely  and independently of any other cause results in one or more  of 
the following  within 12 months of the date of the accident:
Loss of limb (a limb means  an arm, hand,  leg or foot)
Loss of sight
Permanent total disablement; or 
Accidental death. 
Permanent total disablement is defined  as: 
The inability of an insured  person  to continue in any occupation for which  they are 
fitted by way of training, education  or employment which in all probability will continue  
for the rest of their life. 
was Mr Ls claim  unfairly declined?
Under the relevant rules  and industry  practice AIG has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly  and they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.  Im satisfied AIGs  
decision to decline the claim is reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I say that 
because:
I dont think it was unreasonable  for AIG to instruct  a charted occupational 
physiotherapist rather than a neurologist.  Im satisfied the expert  was suitably 
qualified to prepare the report  I note he qualified as a chartered physiotherapist in 
1999 and he has a specific interest in the management and assessment of spinal 
problems and occupational health. Mr L feels a neurological physiotherapist would be 
more appropriate.  However, the focus  of the assessment was to determine  Mr Ls 
functional capacity  to attend a university course,  pursue his chosen career  and his 
suitability for other jobs. So I dont  think it was unreasonable for AIG to instruct a 
physiotherapist in the field of occupational health  given that the focus of the 
assessment
The assessment  lasted nearly six hours  and I can see the expert  took into account 
various information, including medical reports and information  from the university.  
The expert also spoke  to Mr L after the appointment to see what the impact  of the 
session had been on Mr L. And the expert provided his further comments on the 
concerns raised by Mr L about  factual errors and the context of some  of the physical 
achievements Mr L has been  able to complete since his injury. So I think  AIG took 
reasonable steps to assess the claim fairly and addressed Mr Ls concerns about the 
contents of the report 
Ref: DRN78569853Im satisfied  the expert did take into account the impact of fatigue on Mr Ls 
functionality. I can see the expert considered medical reports from Mr Ls treating 
clinicians which included  reference to Mr L experiencing fatigue.  And he specifically 
referenced fatigue as one of the main reasons Mr L withdrew  from his university  
course. The expert clarified  that Mr L referred to having developed some effective 
management strategies for his fatigue  and referred  AIG to the relevant section  of the 
report. So I dont  agree  that the assessment  didnt give any weight to fatigue as I 
think this was considered by the expert when reaching his conclusions  
I can also see that the expert took into account Mr Ls ongoing need to access 
treatment on a regular  basis  and the physical  demands of his course  and 
employment. He had also made  enquiries about  the likely physical demands of Mr 
Ls chosen career.  The evidence  the expert was provided with didnt  persuade him 
that Mr L wouldnt be able to attend the course, work in his chosen career or work at 
all. He reached the conclusion that any such obstacles could be managed  by 
reasonable adjustments and ongoing adaptations.  I note that in reaching this 
conclusion the expert  had liaised with the university,  considered information about  
Mr Ls chosen career and discussed the job Mr L was doing at that time. I appreciate 
Mr L doesnt agree with those  conclusions but I dont  think its unreasonable for AIG 
to rely on the experts report as Im satisfied reasonable steps were taken to 
determine if Mr L met the definition in the policy
Im aware that Mr L is compiling further evidence in support of his claim,  including 
expert reports, which he intends  to provide to AIG. My decision is focused on 
whether its fair and reasonable for AIG to decline the claim based on the current 
available evidence.  If Mr L obtains further evidence in support of his claim hes 
entitled to share that with AIG so that it can be assessed. However, based on the 
available evidence  Im not persuaded its unreasonable for AIG to reject the claim.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about AIG Europe Limited. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 3 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7856985