K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Rowan Dartington  & Co Ltd (Rowan) failed to follow his instructions 
about selling  down some  shares.
background 
Mr B set up an account with Rowan,  using their premium stockbroking  service. The account  
was set up in November 2017. Rowan  was to provide advice  about  the selling down of Mr 
Bs shares.  Mr B intended to sell over the following six months to a year and hoped to 
achieve the best price. Its agreed  that Mr B had given  instructions for the shares  to be sold 
gradually over time and not in a lump sum.
After a call to Mr Bs representative in February 2018, Rowan sold Mr Bs shares.
Mr B feels  that Rowan didnt give him suitable advice and dumped the shares  at the bottom 
of the market in a panic sale after the market dropped in January 2018.  Mr B says Rowan 
should honour the peak  market price from January 2018. 
Rowan say that following an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, it was agreed that some 
investments would be sold and the funds would to be re-invested  into less risky investments. 
Rowan accept there was a delay in selling the shares. They  mistakenly thought that further 
information was required from Mr B. They say they took instructions from Mr Bs nominated  
representative before the sale was made and it was agreed that all the shares should be 
sold. 
As Rowan  accept that the shares could have been sold earlier,  they have offered Mr B the 
difference in the share price between the earliest  time the shares could have been sold and 
the price they were  sold at, less dividends received during that period. The offer totals 
£645.51.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She took into account that Mr B had given 
authority to his representative to give instructions to Rowan. Our investigator thought that 
Rowan had spoken to that representative and had taken  instructions to sell the shares. But 
she agreed that Rowan delayed  in providing  the advice to sell and overall, thought Rowans 
offer was fair and reasonable. Our investigator  said 8% simple  interest  per year should be 
added, calculated from 5 February 2018  to date of settlement.
Mr B disagrees with the view. He feels strongly that Rowan dumped his shares and argues 
they should have waited  to sell the shares the following week when the market rose.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Mr Bs selection  of the selling down  service  from Rowan  that he intended  to 
sell these shares. Effectively, Mr Bs complaint is about the timing of the sale. He says that 
the shares were  sold when the price was too low. But Im mindful that it isnt fair and 
reasonable to make  an assessment about  what should have happened using the benefit of 
hindsight. So Ive looked at what happened at the time.
Ref: DRN71063992I can see that the account was opened in November, after Mr Bs attitude to risk had been 
assessed and a suitability letter had been sent to him. Thereafter, the value of the shares 
fluctuated and I understand that the shares  were sold in bulk, rather  than staggered  as Mr B 
had initially  requested. 
But Ive had to take into account  that before selling the shares, Rowan called Mr Rs 
representative. Ive listened to the calls and whilst it may not have been the best time to call, 
Im satisfied that an offer to call back another time wasnt taken. Rowan  explained that as 
there was no capital gains tax issue,  the shares  could  be sold now so that the funds could be 
re-invested. Rowan  asked for instructions  as to whether the shares should now all be sold or 
sold in part. Mr Rs representative took instructions from Mr R and then told Rowan  to 
proceed with selling all the shares. The representative also agreed that the advice note 
could be sent after the sale.
Ive seen that around this time,  the market had also dropped. At this time,  Rowan  couldnt  
have predicted the future market conditions, so selling  at this point had potential  to limit any 
losses. 
I dont underestimate  Mr Bs strength of feeling about this matter. Its understandable that 
Mr B feels  Rowan  should have sold when the price was higher and/or should  have 
staggered the sale, but I cant fairly  say that Rowan did anything wrong in acting on the 
instructions given at the time to sell all the shares.  
Rowan do accept that there was an unnecessary delay and that the shares could have been 
sold earlier. To compensate for this, theyve  looked  to the earliest  point the shares could 
have been sold and theyve offered Mr B the difference in price (less dividends  received). Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr B, but I think this is a fair and reasonable offer. So I wont be asking 
Rowan to pay any more.
Mr B has also said that Rowan didnt sell some other specific shares.  Rowan say these  
share certificates werent  valid and they were  returned to Mr B. Theyve offered to cover the 
cost of indemnities for the share certificates.  Again, I think thats fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I consider that Rowan  Dartington & Co Ltds offer is fair and reasonable. I direct Rowan 
Dartington & Co Ltd to pay Mr R £645.51 plus 8% simple interest per year, calculated from 5 
February 2018 to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7106399