K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 with a 
further advance  on a mortgage.  Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) 
mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why. 
The loan application had a section for PPI. It briefly  explained what  the policy was for, and 
only recommended  that Mr and Mrs S thought  about it. It offered them more details if theyd 
like. Then  there were two boxes to choose from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. 
Both boxes  were equally prominent. Mr S signed  the box to buy PPI so that it covered him, 
and Mr and Mrs S signed the application. They also submitted a separate application 
specifically for PPI, which wasnt a required part of the loan application. It set out the PPIs 
costs separately from the cost of the loan itself, rather  than something  that was necessarily 
included. Further, by 1996 Mr and Mrs S had already had their mortgage for a number of 
years without PPI, so they wouldve known they didnt have to have PPI. I wasnt at the 
branch, so I cant be certain of exactly what was said. But taking all the evidence into 
account, I think its most likely that it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs S they didnt have to 
take out PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr S, so it had to check that the policy  was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the PPIs  key exclusions or limitations. While Mr S 
said he had some good sick pay, the PPI covered him for longer and paid out on top. And he 
doesnt seem to have  had any equivalent cover in case he lost his job. Its worth bearing  in 
mind that if Mr and Mrs S fell behind on their payments, they risked losing their home. So 
I think the PPI couldve  really been useful for them in protecting  their home.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, they chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like Mr and Mrs S 
wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt  look like Mr S was affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it would have been  useful for Mr and Mrs S in 
case something went wrong. So overall, I dont think better  information  about the PPI was 
likely to have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Ref: DRN77555522Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7755552