K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains about a fee he was charged when withdrawing funds in a different currency 
via his Revolut  Ltd account.  
Background
Mr K has a currency  card with Revolut and used it to withdraw some cash whilst  abroad in 
April 2019. When Mr K checked his receipt he saw the final amount he was charged 
included an undisclosed  fee which came to around £2. 
Mr K contacted Revolut  via its online chat facility and was told the charge had most  likely 
been applied  by the ATM operator. Mr K complained  but Revolut didnt agree it had made  a 
mistake. Mr K referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  But 
they thought Revolut had dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else.  
Mr K asked to appeal so his complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut has explained  that the only fee it applies for cash withdrawals is for amounts over 
£200 when a 2% fee is applied. But thats  not what Mr K is complaining about. Hes 
concerned about  a fee of around £2. Revolut  says that fee was applied  by the ATM operator 
and it has no discretion over whether  one will be applied. 
I appreciate Mr K is concerned that a larger transaction could lead to a bigger charge. But I 
have to balance  that against  the terms of his account with Revolut which  say an ATM 
operator may charge an additional fee for withdrawals. The terms also say Revolut wont  be 
liable for any additional  fee thats applied. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K but the Revolut terms he agreed to allow for ATM operators to 
apply charges. So theres no evidence Revoluts acted outsider the account terms. I 
appreciate Mr K is concerned that he wasnt  informed about the charge before agreeing  to 
proceed. But the ATM he used isnt owned  by Revolut and it has no influence on whether a 
fee will be applied or what information  is provided  about fees in general. I havent  found any 
evidence of a mistake by Revolut. 
Mr K has forwarded a letter from the ATM operator  that refers him back  to Revolut for 
answers. I appreciate  the response  doesnt  give Mr K the answer  he wanted but I cant  hold 
Revolut responsible for any information  provided  by a third party.  As Ive said above,  Im 
satisfied Revolut didnt  charge the fee in question. 
Mr Ks told us he became  frustrated when trying to talk about what  happened with Revolut.  
But I can see Mr K told Revolut  he was using its instant messaging  service from a mobile 
phone with poor reception. That led to gaps in the conversation which  meant Mr Ks query 
was reassigned several times. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I thought his query was dealt 
with professionally by Revolut.  
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I havent  been persuaded to uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN78766552My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7876655