K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S dont  think its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use some  of 
their payment protection  insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which they 
were discharged when  their protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr and Mrs S complained to RBS in 2017  that they had been mis-sold PPI on three loans.
Loan one was in Mr Ss sole name  and loans  two and three were in joint names.
RBS investigated  and upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. RBS wrote  to Mr and Mrs S offering 
compensation. 
RBS offered compensation to Mr S for loan one. And with loans  two and three  it offered  
Mr and Mrs S 50% each of the compensation.
Mr and Mrs S accepted RBS offer.  
However, in 2002,  Mr and Mrs S had granted a trust deed  which became a protected  trust 
deed  for their creditors. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which 
is administered by a trustee. 
Mr and Mrs S were  subsequently discharged from their trust deed.
RBS paid Mr and Mrs S some of the compensation but it used the majority of the compensation 
to reduce outstanding monies  that it says Mr and Mrs S hadnt fully repaid on the last loan, loan 
three - despite Mr and Mrs S being  discharged from their protected trust deed. 
Mr and Mrs S, unhappy they hadnt received all of the compensation, brought  their complaint 
to our service.
Mr and Mrs S say it is unfair for RBS to use some  of the PPI compensation to reduce a debt 
from which they have  been discharged. Mr and Mrs S explained that there had been  a court 
case which focused on whom PPI compensation should be paid to when  a consumer has 
been discharged from a protected  trust deed. Because of this, Mr and Mrs S say all of the 
compensation should be paid directly to them.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought RBS had acted fairly in using the 
compensation to reduce the borrowing that was left unpaid despite Mr and Mrs S being 
discharged from their trust deed.   
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN73013852my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
We were created by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA).  This Act also 
created whats now called the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Section 225 of FSMA explains  that were here to resolve disputes quickly  and with minimum 
formality. And section 228 says a complaint is to be determined  by reference to what  is, in 
the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the FCA sets out, in its handbook, some rules  for us to follow. These rules 
are known as the DISP  rules  and they can be found online.
DISP 3.6.1 R repeats  section 228 of FSMA. DISP 3.6.4 R adds that, when considering what 
is fair and reasonable, an ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policies were mis-sold. So I wont  be looking at how 
the PPI came to be sold as that is no longer in dispute. And Mr and Mrs S havent raised any 
concerns about  the amount of compensation RBS has offered. Although from looking at 
what RBS have offered  it includes everything I would expect to see. 
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the PPI 
compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount that Mr and Mrs S say was written off after 
they were discharged from their protected trust deed. 
Mr and Mrs S say as they were discharged from their protected trust deed and in light of 
relevant law (Scots law) all of the compensation should be paid directly  to them. 
RBS says it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Mr and Mrs S havent  
fully repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed  
despite Mr and Mrs S being discharged from their protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when 
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. And this is the law that 
Mr and Mrs S says I should rely on in determining what should happen to the compensation. 
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
Ref: DRN73013853In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC 
(Civ) 1. And this is the case  that is more relevant to Mr and Mrs Ss situation.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this 
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But Im not bound  to follow  it. And if 
I decide to depart from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  as required of me 
through FSMA Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to reduce the monies  
Mr and Mrs S borrowed and didnt fully repay. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence to show that loan three was written off in 2005. At the time it 
was written off, the loan had an outstanding balance of around £11,000. This is money that 
Mr and Mrs S wont now ever have to repay to RBS. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs S entered into a protected  trust deed and were discharged from 
their debt when their trust deed came  to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to 
what is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation  to Mr and Mrs S, when 
Mr and Mrs S dont  now have to pay back the many thousands of pounds  they borrowed.  
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use some  of the PPI compensation to reduce the 
borrowing that was left unpaid and that Mr and Mrs S wont  now ever have to repay.
I note that RBS paid Mr and Mrs S some of the PPI compensation directly from the loans. 
That was RBSs choice.  Had RBS used all of the PPI compensation to reduce the amount 
left unpaid on loan three I wouldnt have said that was unfair. 
I say this because  when a consumer grants a trust deed, the creditor  simply pools together  
any debts the consumer owes it  so it effectively  becomes one amount that is owed. And a 
business will look to see if it owes the consumer anything, and then adjust the amount that is 
owed. This would then be the final amount that it puts forward as what  is owed  to it as a 
creditor in the trust deed.
Ref: DRN73013854Had Mr and Mrs S  or their trustee   realised  theyd been mis-sold PPI while the trust deed 
was active, then RBS would  clearly  have been entitled to use all of the PPI compensation to 
reduce what Mr and Mrs S owed it, or, alternatively, it could have been paid to the trustee for 
the benefit of all their creditors.  Importantly  they wouldnt have got this money directly. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs S didnt  complain about  the mis-sold PPI until after they had 
been discharged from their trust deed.  But again  I dont think this makes  a difference to what 
is fair. I say this because  thanks to trust deed there was an amount that Mr and Mrs S wont  
now ever have to repay. Ultimately RBS chose to pay Mr and Mrs S some of the 
compensation and use some  of the compensation to reduce the borrowing on loan three that 
was left unpaid  and that Mr and Mrs S now wont ever have to repay.  Overall,  that seems  
more than fair.
Finally, RBS say that upon reviewing the compensation  that was paid to Mr and Mrs S, Mr S 
was owed a further £6.71. RBS says it will make arrangements to ensure  this is paid to Mr S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to 
use some  of Mr and Mrs Ss PPI compensation to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid 
when Mr and Mrs Ss trust deed  came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7301385