K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that ERGO  Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) paid only part of their 
travel insurance claim after Mr L suffered an injury abroad.  They say they were distressed  by 
ERVs repeated requests for Mr L to move from a private to a public hospital. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I explained that I intended to uphold it, and I include an extract  from my 
decision here:
While on a cruise excursion Mr L slipped and broke  his ankle in three  places. After initial 
treatment on board ship, Mr L was taken  to an island-based clinic for initial medical 
treatment. He was then taken a private  hospital  on the mainland. Mrs L accompanied him. 
After pre-operative medical  treatment Mr L had surgery on 4 August 2018. He remained in 
hospital for a few days before ERV arranged for him and Mrs L to fly home with a medical  
escort. 
ERV was notified of Mr Ls injury  on 2 August and the following day spoke with Mrs L about 
transferring him to a public hospital. It said its policy didnt cover treatment in a private 
hospital. Mrs L explains this was distressing for her, and given Mr Ls health and the injury 
and they didnt agree to be moved. ERV said the cost of the surgery and post-surgical 
treatment after 4 August  2018 wouldnt be covered  under the policy.
ERV paid part of Mr and Mrs Ls claim.  They pointed out ERV hadnt paid their costs  to travel 
to the private  hospital or any curtailment  claim.  ERV paid the remaining part of the claim, but 
not the surgical costs. The dispute  concerns medical costs  in the region of €10,000.
ERV accepted that Mr and Mrs L didnt have any choice in the hospital they were taken to on 
the mainland. But it said that Mr L chose to have private surgery even in the knowledge that 
it wouldnt be covered  under  the policy terms and conditions. Mr L didnt agree there was a 
choice, and provided a copy of the medical  report from his orthopaedic surgeon that he said 
supported his position. He came to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the medical evidence didnt show  
that Mr L couldnt be moved to a public hospital for surgery. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, so 
the complaints come  to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence and Im currently  likely  to uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Before travelling Mr L had told ERV about  his known medical conditions including  raised 
blood pressure  and blood clots on his lungs, and it had agreed medically to cover him for 
these health conditions. It had taken a premium to reflect the increased risk to Mr Ls health. 
Ref: DRN78639842The ERV policy doesnt cover treatment  in a private hospital or clinic abroad where a 
suitable public or state facility is available.  It also says that ERV reserves the right to 
relocate Mr L from one hospital to another. It says it will do this if the doctor  in attendance 
and our medical officer agree you can be moved safely.
Theres no dispute that Mr L didnt have any choice  about the hospital he was taken to on 
the mainland. So for me to say it was fair to ask Mr L to move  to a public hospital ERV needs 
to show that there was a suitable  public  hospital  available to treat him and that both his 
doctor and ERVs medical officer agreed  he could be moved safely.
Ive read ERVs comments to explain why it considers it was safe for Mr L to be moved. Its 
said he had been  moved already from the ship to the island clinic and from there (by sea) to 
the mainland hospital. It says the medical report from his orthopaedic consultant didnt  say 
he couldnt be moved. Ive also seen comments from ERVs  medically  trained staff made 
after the event  that it was likely Mr L could be moved safely. But Ive not seen  any evidence 
to show that its medical officer spoke with Mr Ls doctor  in attendance before surgery to 
check he was able to be moved safely.
The detailed medical report from Mr Ls orthopaedic consultant explains that Mr L (who is in 
his 70s) had a number  of complicating medical factors  not all of which were noted on the 
island clinics report ahead of his move to the mainland. He had: high blood pressure which  
had to be reduced before his surgery; hed been found to be anaemic and needed a blood  
transfusion; there was some concern about his kidney function,  with a recommendation he 
see a cardiac consultant  because of the possible  link with his cardiac  health;  and his doctor 
noted he had a significant health  history that hed had been  admitted to hospital three 
months previously with blood clots on his lungs. 
I can see why ERV wanted Mr L to move  to a public hospital but I dont think its given us 
any medical evidence  to show that it was safe to do so, or that it consulted  Mr Ls surgeon 
about this before his surgery. The medical report doesnt talk about Mr L not being fit to 
move before surgery, but equally  Ive not seen  that the surgeon was asked about this. Mr L 
says that his surgeon was contacted after surgery  and told ERV that it wouldnt be safe to 
move Mr L. 
Ive seen that there was a duty public hospital noted in ERVs records  at the time, but Ive 
not any evidence  that the hospital was ready both to admit Mr L, with his existing health 
issues, and quickly to carry  out the surgery that was required  urgently  on his broken ankle. 
After Mr L had had the surgery  the evidence on ERVs own file is that a public hospital  
wouldnt accept him for post-operative care anyway.
So I dont  think ERV has done enough to show  that Mr L medically could be moved  safely 
and/or that there was a suitable public hospital  available to operate on him urgently with his 
other health concerns. For these reasons I currently intend to require ERV to pay the 
remaining claim for Mr Ls medical costs. Mr L says hes paid those costs himself  (and ERV 
should let me know if it doesnt have evidence of that). ERV should pay him the medical 
expenses that are outstanding plus 8% simple interest as set out below. 
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Ls distress  at being asked to move  hospitals. I think 
ERV should properly first have spoken  to Mr Ls surgeon about whether he was fit to be 
moved first, rather than continue to contact Mrs L who was distressed  about  being asked to 
make this decision on Mr Ls behalf.  I can see ERV needed to warn Mrs L about  the private 
hospital costs,  but I dont  think she was in a position  to make that decision at the time. 
Ref: DRN78639843Rather it was for the medical  staff to make  that decision, with Mr Ls best medical interests  in 
mind, and for the reasons  Ive explained  Im not satisfied it was medically possible to move  
Mr L.
Its clear from what Mr and Mrs L have  said that she felt under pressure to move Mr L, and 
that she received  a number of calls about  this during  the afternoon  of 3 August before his 
surgery. She says she was already distressed, understandably, and worried  about Mr L and 
I think this added to her distress at a difficult time.
Also, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ls claim was handled  particularly well. ERV didnt pay part of 
their claim because  they didnt pre-authorise costs but it hadnt shown that its position was 
prejudiced because they werent pre-authorised. It did pay the claim after Mr L pointed out 
hed not had any other option but to travel by the recommended means. Also,  he had to ask 
ERV to pay the curtailment claim, even though it was clear the holiday had been cut short  
following Mr Ls injury. For all these reasons I intend to award Mr and Mrs L compensation 
and I assess £200 to be a fair amount.
responses
ERV responded  to say it had nothing to add in addition to its earlier  submissions. 
Mr and Mrs L responded to say that theyd been required to settle the mainland hospitals bill 
for €10,469 before they were able to leave the mainland hospital. They said they are still 
very distressed with the way ERV has conducted  itself with their claim,  having had to go 
back to it repeatedly, and its unbelievable  that they have this matter  hanging over their 
heads for almost  a year. They  hope  the matter can now be settled as outlined  in my 
provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the responses that Ive received to my provisional decision. Having done so 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings and I confirm them here.  For the 
reasons Ive already set out in my provisional decision I uphold  this complaint, and require 
ERV to take the steps set out below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold this 
complaint. I order ERGO  Reiseversicherung  AG to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim for Mr Ls 
remaining medical expenses, plus interest* on the remaining claim payment at a simple rate 
of 8% per year from the date they paid the medical expenses to the date of settlement. It 
must also pay them £200 compensation for distress. 
ERV must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr and Mrs L accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Ref: DRN78639844Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If ERV considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7863984