K822xComplaint
Ms B has complained that Delmor Wealth Management Ltd (Delmor) provided incorrect 
details to a new provider of Ms Bs life insurance policy which  caused it to be voided.
Background 
Ms Bs complaint concerns a term assurance policy  she took out in October  2016.  At the 
time Ms B was already  a client of Delmor and held a number of life insurance policies. She 
has explained that she was approached by Delmor to review her existing life protection but 
she has said that as she had developed new health problems she didnt think a review  would  
be a good idea. Nevertheless,  Delmor persuaded her to undertake the review.  As a result, 
Ms B was recommended a new term assurance policy to replace one she already  had in 
place. The new policy provided  more cover for a longer period of time for a cheaper 
premium. Ms B agreed and cancelled her existing one.
However, when Ms B was recently  prompted by the new policy  provider to review  her details 
online, just as a matter  of course, she found  that some of her information  had been  
incorrectly recorded. She found that she had been incorrectly  recorded as being  male; that 
one of her health  conditions  hadnt  been mentioned; and her address was also wrong.  When 
she highlighted these  points to the policy provider it voided her policy.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it should  be upheld.  He 
was of the view that it was Ms Bs responsibility to check her address details at the time of 
taking the policy out before confirming all details were correct  and that while she had been 
incorrectly recorded as being male neither this nor the address problem would have caused 
the provider to void the policy. However,  he did feel that Delmor had not accurately recorded 
all of Ms Bs health conditions at the time even though he was satisfied Ms B had mentioned  
all of them.  So it was because of this the policy was voided.
To put things right the investigator suggested the following method of redress:
Delmor was to source  Ms B a suitable life assurance policy, set up from when she 
originally took out the new policy, with the correct  gender  and health conditions 
inputted. 
Delmor was to meet the cost of setting up this policy.
The cost of the premiums that Ms B paid for the voided policy was to be deducted as 
these had already  been returned  to her. But if there were  any additional costs  
incurred until the present  date, Delmor  was to meet  these.
He also acknowledged  that Ms Bs original policy terms took her to aged 85 so all effort 
should be made to find a policy in line with her wishes in October  2016.  But if Delmor was 
unable to find a suitable term assurance policy which ran until she turned 85 a policy  which 
ran to 75 (as is usual  with term assurance policies)  was acceptable.
Delmor accepted the assessment and agreed  with the proposed  redress.  Ms B reluctantly 
accepted the assessment although she did state ideally, she wanted  the old policy  to be 
reinstated. However, when Delmor searched  the market  for a suitable and comparable  policy  
it couldnt find one which Ms B could afford  as most  polices were  requiring a premium of 
around £400 per month, without underwriting. Because of this the investigator had to amend 
his proposed redress to the following:
Delmor  was to pay the cost difference  between  the new policy  sourced  for Ms B 
Ref: DRN71461742in line with the initial  view and the policy  Delmor  advised  her to cancel.  
Delmor  was to pay any costs  involved  in setting  up the new policy  and arrange  
its inception.  
A deduction  for the refund  of premiums  for the voided  policy  was to be made  to 
the redress  as Ms B had already  received  this.
The new policy  and the old policies  were  both level  term assurance  policies  so 
the premiums  shouldnt  change.  Therefore,  Delmor  should  pay the difference  to 
Ms B in advance  to provide  a clean  break  to the complaint.
Delmors errors  caused  Ms B a significant  amount  of worry  and upset,  along  with 
not having  the correct  cover  for an amount  of time,  so because  of this a further  
payment  of £300  should  be made.
Delmor again agreed with the assessment but this time Ms B didnt. She commented that 
her old policy which she shouldnt have  cancelled covered her until the age of 85 so the new 
one should do the same. She also didnt agree that the premiums shed had refunded  for the 
voided policy should be deducted.  She also wasnt happy with the £300  the investigator  
awarded for the distress and inconvenience.  She felt that this amount should also take 
account of the potential  that she could die during the setting up of a new policy  and also in 
case due to her medical conditions she wasnt  able to take out a new policy.
The investigator considered the comments Ms b made but wasnt persuaded to change  his 
initial outcome.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
There is no doubt that Delmor made  a serious mistake which has led to Ms B not having 
valuable life protection in place. Delmor has accepted this and as mentioned has been 
willing to rectify this situation  as much as it can. But as Ms B hasnt agreed  with the 
proposed methods of resolving the matter, the focus  of this decision is the redress 
methodology.
I fully understand  why Ms B is concerned  with what has happened. Life protection  is 
important especially when  the policy holders health isnt in good condition.  But it is important 
for Ms B to understand that this Service isnt here to punish businesses when errors have 
occurred. Our role is to identify an error  and then to put the consumer into the position, as far 
as possible, that they would have been in had the error not occurred. Ms B must understand 
that this may not always lead to the perfect  fix but we must get as close as possible whilst  
also maintaining  our impartial fair and reasonable stance.
To that end I agree with the amended redress methodology proposed by the investigator. 
This is in line with the approach of this Service in similar complaints. Given  the 
circumstances of this complaint I think its likely  that given Ms Bs health conditions  in 2016 
any new policy recommended to her back then would have been more  expensive than she 
would have wanted. I therefore  think Ms B would  have  chosen to keep her old existing policy  
in place. However this cant be reinstated so as she would have continued to pay for this 
policy with a premium of around £80 per month, the right,  and as far as I can see the only,  
Ref: DRN71461743way of redressing this is for Delmor to source  the right type of policy  for Ms B now, and back 
date it to start from 2016 and Delmor then makes up the difference in the cost of both 
policies after the amount  of refunded premiums for the voided  policy  have been deducted. 
I also agree  with the level of the payment in recognition  of the distress  and inconvenience 
this mistake has caused Ms B. I know she wants more but this Service doesnt compensate 
for event  that might happen  we can only recognise the actual impact and result of the 
error.
To answer  Ms Bs concerns, while I know she wants a policy to cover  her until the age of 85 
as her old policy did, this would obviously be the intention but in my experience these types  
of policies very rarely  provide cover past the age of 75. Delmor  may be able to find a policy 
which will cover Ms B after the age of 75 but if it cant then it must take the policy which  can 
provided as close  to the similar protection as her old policy.  If a policy  doesnt exist that 
provides extended  cover  then there  isnt anything that can be done  about this. Whats  
important is that Ms B gets some  sort of cover that she can.
With regards to the premiums Ms B has received for the voided policy she cant  benefit twice 
from the error even  though it is a serious  mistake. It would be unconscionable for me to not 
take these into account in the redress and would be, in my view, a punitive  move.  
In summary  therefore, I agree Delmor made a mistake which caused the policy  Ms B took in 
2016 to be voided by the provider. In order to rectify  this Delmor must  do the following:
Delmor  must  source  a new suitable  policy  for Ms B meeting  her objectives  from 
2016.
Delmor  must  pay the cost difference  between  the new policy  and the policy  
Delmor  advised  her to cancel.  
Delmor  must  pay any costs  involved  in setting  up the new policy  and arrange  its 
inception.  
A deduction  for the refund  of premiums  for the voided  policy  is to be made  to the 
redress  as Ms B has already  received  this.
The new policy  and the old policies  were  both level  term assurance  policies  so 
the premiums  shouldnt  change.  Therefore,  Delmor  should  pay the difference  to 
Ms B in advance.
Delmor must also pay Ms B £300  for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has 
caused her.
If for any reason this method cannot  be carried out as instructed, then Delmor must calculate 
what Ms B would have  to be paid by themselves and provide that without putting the new 
policy in place. This is particularly relevant at the moment given  the impact  of the current  
health crisis  in this country and the way insurers have had to amend their insurance criteria 
in line with guidance from the regulator.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Delmor Wealth  Management Ltd should  pay Ms B the redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Ref: DRN71461744Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7146174