K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed his payment for a new vehicle while  it 
waited for authorisation.
background
Mr E wanted  to purchase a vehicle. On 6 July 2018  he told HSBC  he intended to withdraw 
about £20000 by debit  card later that day. When he presented his card to the retailer a few 
hours later the payment  was declined twice. Mr E rang HSBC and was told the payment was 
pending. Nothing could be done  until it was either  sent to the retailers account or returned to 
Mr E. Mr E said he had to go on holiday in his partners  car rather  than his new vehicle. And 
the money was returned to his account on 11 July without explanation.
He was able to make a BACS payment a few days later and collected his car. But his holiday 
was spoiled. And he was worried whatd  happened to his money  in the meantime.  Hed also 
paid a weeks tax and insurance  on the new vehicle for no reason. So he wants an increase 
in the compensation offered by HSBC.
HSBC explained  when a transaction was processed  the funds were held as pending. This 
happened for all transactions and the majority  were  paid straight away. When  the transaction 
wasnt presented immediately the funds  were help for up to seven days. HSBC said the 
retailer hadnt processed the transaction  and the funds had been returned to Mr Es account  
at the end of that period.  
HSBC was sorry Mr E was upset. And it hoped he would remain  a valued customer. The 
bank credited Mr Es account with £50 as a gesture of goodwill  for any stress or 
inconvenience suffered. And it felt that was a fair offer in the circumstances. 
Mr E wasnt  satisfied with HSBCs response. So he contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She felt Mr E had made every effort to ensure his 
payment was successful.  But HSBC hadnt  been able to provide confirmation the block  had 
been caused externally. And she considered if the bank should pay Mr E any additional 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
HSBC provided further details of the transaction authorisation. And it showed  similar 
transactions with the retailer had gone through without  difficulty.  So our adjudicator felt on 
balance HSBC hadnt blocked  the transaction. And she wouldnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr E didnt agree. Someone had obviously made  an error.  When he tried to process the 
payments theyd been declined. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Es frustration. He was trying  to purchase a new vehicle. He had the 
money in his account. And it shouldve been quite simple for the transaction to go through.  
So Ive looked  very carefully at everything  Mr E and HSBC have said to see if the bank has 
done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN71060552When Mr E presented his debit card for the purchase the visa system informed HSBC that 
itd started an authorisation notification. Mr E has provided copies of the two attempts to 
make the payment. And they show each transaction was declined. 
HSBC has confirmed it received the authorisation notification for the first transaction. And a 
hold was placed on the money in expectation  the other party  in this case  the retailers bank  
 would complete  the transaction and release the funds from Mr Es account.
But for some reason  the sellers bank didnt complete the payment process. So the 
transaction wasnt debited to Mr Es account. Ive check HSBCs records.  And it shows an 
authorisation request from the vehicle  seller on 6 July 2018.  And HSBC  has confirmed it 
approved the funds  so the available balance  wouldve been updated to include the payment. 
The first payment was authorised by HSBC.  But for some reason the retailer didnt  receive 
the authorised  response and complete the transaction.
As Ive explained above HSBC wouldve then allocated the funds for the retailer to collect  
within the next seven days.  So the second attempt failed because there was no longer 
enough money in the account. Itd already  been  allocated to the first transaction  and was 
waiting for the retailer to complete.
I do recognise the inconvenience this has caused Mr E. He had to wait a week for the money  
to be returned  to his account so he could complete the purchase. And he wasnt able to pick 
up his new car and use it for a holiday. 
Ive looked very carefully at the banks records. And it shows the first payment was 
authorised by HSBC  and held for the retailer to complete the transaction. But for some 
reason the transaction  didnt complete. And Ive not seen evidence to suggest it was 
because of a mistake by HSBC. The second attempt failed because the money had already 
been allocated  by the bank to the first transaction. And I think that confirms HSBC  had 
attempted to process the first attempted payment. It just wasnt collected  by the other  party.
I know Mr E will be disappointed with this outcome. He didnt do anything wrong. And he 
feels the bank  should increase the compensation because  of the inconvenience caused. I do 
appreciate this wouldve been  quite  upsetting  for him. But there  seems  to have been a 
technical issue which stopped the retailer completing the transfer. And Ive not seen anything 
to suggest it was because of a mistake by HSBC.  So I wont  be asking the bank to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7106055