K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Startline  
Motor Finance Limited wasn't  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In July 2017  Miss J acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement  with 
Startline. The car was two and half years old and had a mileage of just under  23,500.
Miss J had to query the cost of the car when  she received the paperwork  as the price had 
increased. It came to light that a 12-month autocare warranty had been added to the 
agreement without her knowledge. Miss J says she thought the warranty had been free 
and wasn't aware she was being charged  for this.
Miss J also says she was informed by the dealership that the car had sustained some 
minor  scratches before  she went to pick it up. However, Miss J says these scratches looked 
as though  they'd been  caused  by the car being scraped. So the dealership agreed to repair 
the damaged  paint work.
Miss J also says that on her way home  she noticed that the windscreen had a chip. The 
dealership sent someone out to inspect it. Miss J says while she didn't have to get this chip 
repaired, she thought  it showed the dealership hadn't properly inspected the car before she 
collected it. Miss J also says that the dealership was rude and unhelpful when she raised 
her concerns  about the car.
In November  2017 the car required a repair to its rear axle module.  This was carried out by 
the dealership at no cost to Miss J. However, in December 2017  Miss J noticed noises 
from the back of the car and completed a road test with a technician. The technician 
followed the manufacturer recommendations and as the first repair to the axle hadn't been 
sufficient the rear crossmember was then replaced under the manufacturer warranty.  This 
repair was again at no cost to Miss J.
Miss J then noticed noises from the brakes. These were inspected  and Miss J was advised  
that both of the car's rear callipers were seizing, causing  the brake pads to wear. Miss J 
arranged for the repairs to be undertaken at another garage. She paid for these herself, 
and then complained to the dealership.
The dealership agreed to reimburse Miss J 50% of the costs  of the brake-pad repairs as 
a gesture of goodwill.
In January 2018 the car required a new MOT. Although  it passed this, Miss J was told that 
it required  new front brake pads and discs. So she complained to Startline.
Startline didn't  uphold  her complaint and said that the dealership had dealt  appropriately 
with the scratches  and the axle and crossmember repairs. It also said that as it was a used  
car repairs  to parts due to wear  and tear should be expected. Startline also said the 
dealership's  50% contribution to the replacement  of the rear brakes had been  fair.
Miss J was unhappy at Startline's response  and complained to this service.
Ref: DRN75895512Our adjudicator didn't recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said there  
wasn't  enough evidence to say the car had been faulty from the point  of sale and that the 
faults with the brake pads had arisen  through wear and tear as Miss J had had fair use of 
the car.
She also noted that the repair to the rear axle and crossmember hadnt been charged  to
Miss J and the goodwill  gesture by the dealership to the cost of the repairs to the rear 
brakes  had been fair.
In respect of the mis-sold  warranty, Startline  had offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill  
which  she also thought was fair.
Our adjudicator said she appreciated  Miss J's frustrations over the poor customer  service  
she'd received from the dealership, but this was outside this service's remit and wasn't  the 
responsibility of Startline.  She explained that poor customer service in complaints handling  
wasn't a "regulated activity" and she wasn't  able to investigate  that part of Miss J's 
complaint.
Miss J disagreed  with our adjudicator's view. She said she didn't expect the car to have  
been in perfect condition, but she didn't  think it had been properly inspected before 
being  passed to her.
Miss J said the paintwork  repairs for the scraped  wing had been of poor quality and 
subsequently the scratches had started  to reappear. She also said that she'd  had to take 
the car back to the dealership four times to have the fault with the rear axle fixed.
Miss J said she didn't accept that the mileage she'd driven would  have  resulted  in the wear  
and tear to the brakes as suggested by our adjudicator. And was unhappy that the 
behaviour  of the dealership couldn't be looked at, as she thought the dealership  should be 
held to account for the way she'd  been treated.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint  was passed to me to make a decision.  I 
issued  a provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a car must be of "satisfactory quality"  at the point 
of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person  would  expect taking  into 
account  all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory quality as although no one would  expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldn't reasonably expect issues to 
arise  with the car until after an initial period of time.
If a car wasn't of satisfactory quality at the point of sale then the retailer has an 
opportunity to repair. If that isn't successful  then the consumer would  be able to reject the 
car. And where
a car was supplied under  a finance agreement then it would  be the finance company, in 
this case Startline, who was responsible for dealing with the fault.
Here the car was under  three-years old with a mileage of around 23,500, so I thought 
wear  and tear issues would be expected to arise after a reasonable period of time.
I'd seen that the car had a fault with its rear axle and that this resulted  in repairs to the 
axle's module and then to the crossmember.  I appreciated this took four visits to sort out 
Ref: DRN75895513as there was a test drive  and the need to order  parts, which would've  caused Miss J 
some  inconvenience.  But I hadn't seen any evidence  that this repair was ultimately  
unsuccessful. I'd also seen  that these  repairs weren't charged to Miss J. So although 
this fault wasn't fixed the first time it was fixed shortly afterwards  and I thought  it would 
be unreasonable to say Miss J could now reject the car because it had required  a 
second repair.
Miss J next had issues with the rear brakes. On inspection a fault was found with the 
callipers  which needed  to be replaced along  with the brake-pads.  By this time Miss J had 
driven the car for five months and for an additional 4,500 miles. This was lower than the 
average mileage.
Although it was expected  that issues with the brakes becoming worn would arise over 
time, I didn't  think a reasonable person would've expected to have to pay for repairs  to 
the brake-  pads and callipers  after only four and half months  of driving.  Especially when 
taking into account the age and mileage of the car. So I thought it was reasonable to say 
the car wasn't of a satisfactory  quality looking at its durability.
I'd seen that Miss J arranged for these repairs at another garage. The dealership said it 
wasn't given an opportunity to do the repairs  but Miss J said the dealership  had refused 
to do the work. It appeared from the evidence that Miss J and the dealership didn't  have  
a good  relationship  by that time.
The dealership offered to cover 50% of the cost which Miss J reluctantly accepted. I 
thought in the circumstances it would've been fair for the dealership to cover the full cost 
which  amounted to an additional £240. However,  I didn't think it would  be proportionate to 
say that Miss J could reject the car due to the faulty rear brakes.
Miss J said that further repairs were required to the car in January 2018 when it 
underwent  its MOT.  I'd seen the car passed this, with two advisories for the front brake-
pads which  were wearing thin but were still legal  and the nearside rear tyre being  close 
to the legal  tread  limit. By this time the car had been driven for around  5,500 miles by 
Miss J.
As these were only recommended  repairs at this stage, and looking at both the length of 
time Miss J had had the car and its mileage, I thought these  could reasonably be 
considered as fair wear  and tear items and not faults. I didn't think  it would be fair to ask 
Startline to either  cover  the costs of these repairs or allow Miss J to reject  the car 
because of them.
Miss J raised an issue with the respray  of the car following the scratches  it had received  
prior to its delivery.  Miss J said this job was poor and the marks were returning. She 
provided a photo but I didn't think it was very clear as to what it showed and I couldn't say 
what had caused these marks to the paint. I'd also seen that Miss J hadn't raised  this 
issue when she originally complained to Startline.
So I didn't think I had enough evidence  to say that the re-spray was of a poor condition  
and didnt intend to ask Startline to do more about that. In any event I understood the 
car had been traded-in, which  would  make any further investigation impossible.
Miss J had queried the £100 compensation offer by Startline  raised  by our adjudicator. 
This amount had been for adding the warranty without her consent to the financial  
Ref: DRN75895514agreement. I understood Miss J wasn't  upset  at taking the warranty  - only at the way it 
had been added,  so I thought this amount was generous in the circumstances.
Looking at compensation, I thought a total amount of £150 was fair and reasonable to 
address  the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss J for both the repairs to the axle 
and the way the warranty was added.
I appreciated Miss J was upset by the attitude of the dealership and the way a member 
of staff treated  her when  she went to complain. As explained by our adjudicator, this 
wasn't  something I could look at as it was outside my remit. I was sorry  that Miss J felt 
frustrated that this part of her complaint wasnt  being looked at but it wasnt part of my 
role.
So I intended  to partially uphold  Miss J's complaint.  To resolve  matters,  I asked  Startline  to 
reimburse Miss J £240  for the repairs to the rear brakes and callipers. I also ask it to pay a 
total of £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by having  to take the 
car in for repairs to the axle and having the warranty added in the way that it was.
Miss J has agreed  with my provisional  decision  but Startline  has disagreed.  It has asked  me to 
look again  at the timeline  of repairs  and says that brakes  are serviceable  wear  and tear items  
and that Miss J had reasonable  usage  out of them.  Startline  says if thered  been  an underlying  
fault with the brakes  this would  have  presented  itself sooner.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the chronology of events but I havent changed my view.  Miss Js car 
has needed three repairs in the first five months  since shed acquired it. I appreciate Miss J 
didnt have to pay the cost for the repairs to the crossmember and only half of the costs of 
the repairs to the brakes but that doesnt detract  from the car having  faults  at the point of 
sale. And while I agree brake pads are serviceable items the car also had an issue with the 
callipers which would reasonably be expected to last longer than the number of miles the car 
had been driven.  
As Ive set out above satisfactory  quality incudes durability and Im still satisfied a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect the car to have  needed the repairs  it has taking into 
account its age and mileage. 
In light of finding the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale I think  its fair and 
reasonable for Startline to cover  the remaining costs of the repairs to the brakes  and 
callipers that amounted to £240.  I agree with Startline that it isnt fair for it to have to cover 
the costs of the repairs to the brake pads suggested by the MOT in January 2018  and I 
havent asked  it to do so nor has Miss J hasnt asked me to look at that again.
But I still think having to take the car in for repairs and having  the warranty added in the way 
that it was will have  caused Miss J inconvenience and distress. I think the £150 
compensation is fair to reflect that.
So for the reasons given above  Im partially upholding Miss Js complaint.
Ref: DRN75895515my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Miss Js complaint. To resolve this complaint Im 
asking Startline Motor  Finance  Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Miss J £240 for the cost of the repairs to the brakes and callipers  together 
with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Pay Miss J £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7589551