K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  a claim for 
storm damage under their buildings insurance  policy.
background
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds (Lloyds) to make  a claim. They noticed 
water had come through their ceiling  and caused  stains to appear in their dining room  and 
utility room. They thought it might  have been  as a result of a storm.
Lloyds checked  the weather reports but didnt think they showed  there  had been storm 
conditions in Mr and Mrs Ws area,  so it said the claim wouldnt be covered. It later agreed to 
send a surveyor to look at the roof after Mr and Mrs W complained.
Having received the report Lloyds didnt agree to change its position. It said the report and 
photographs showed the sealant around a velux-style window on the roof had failed  and it 
had happened  over some time. It said the weather conditions in January had only 
highlighted an existing  problem.  
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds. They said they didnt think Lloyds had treated them  
fairly and raised  some  concerns about  the contractor who attended  their property. They  said 
he didnt identify himself,  and although  he claimed  to get on the roof, the photographs  he 
produced could have been  of anyones roof. Mr and Mrs W said the roof had been  re-felted 
in 2013 as part of some building  work  and the materials used should have lasted between 10 
and 15 years. They also thought the internal damage to the property should be covered  
under the claim. 
Lloyds didnt agree  to change its mind on the claim.  But it did note it hadnt  received one of   
Mr Ws letters, so it paid Mr W £25 to recognise the inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs W 
brought their complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had acted unfairly in declining the claim. She didnt think 
there had been  storm conditions  at the time. She also said even if there had been, she didnt 
think a storm was the main cause  of the damage. She was also satisfied Lloyds was entitled 
to rely on the report provided by the surveyor. She noted there had been internal damage to 
the property, but she thought based on the report it was most likely this had been  happening 
over time. So she didnt think that would be covered under the accidental damage  section of 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  They  provided  more evidence of the building  work that took 
place in 2013. But our investigator  didnt change her mind.  So the matter has come to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
Ref: DRN77742252has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
were the prevailing  storm  conditions  the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Mr and Mrs W reported the damage at the start of January, and Lloyds  marked the date of 
the storm as 2 January 2018. Ive looked  at the weather report  from that day. It shows  winds 
were 37mph  which isnt high enough  to be considered a storm under the policy definition.
Im aware Mr and Mrs W werent sure of the date, so Ive also checked the weather records 
for other days around  the time they reported  the damage. This shows  the strongest winds in 
the week the damage was reported were  48mph.  This still isnt strong enough  to be 
considered a storm under their insurance  policy. So because the answer to the first question  
is no, their claim  doesnt succeed  and Lloyds doesnt have to cover the cost of repairs  to 
the roof.
But even if I were to accept there was a storm, Id still need to be satisfied that the damage  
was consistent  with storm damage. Mr and Mrs W have provided a lot of information  about 
the building  work done  in 2013.  I dont doubt  they had this work  done. But I need  to decide if 
its more likely that a storm  caused the damage to their roof. And given the pictures and the 
report provided by the surveyor,  I dont  think  a storm would be the main  cause  of the 
damage, even  if a storm had occurred. 
The photos  show a large raised velux-style window on a flat roof. There are photos  showing 
the material around the window frame is peeling away. And there looks  to be some  gaps  in 
the sealant underneath  the window. The report says the sealant has deteriorated over time 
and this has allowed  water to get in through the gaps. Based on this I dont think Lloyds has 
been unreasonable in saying it wouldnt expect a storm  to cause the sealant  to peel away.  
Other photos show a frozen patch of water on the flat roof, above the living room. The report 
says the flat roof has sagged, so water has collected  and seeped through  the roof into the 
dining room below. It says the dip in the roof isnt likely to have been  caused by high winds,  
so I think its more likely that this has happened  over time.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ws comments that they didnt see the surveyor on the roof. Theyve 
said the photographs could be of another roof, rather than their own. But based on what Ive 
seen Im persuaded the photographs do show their roof. The close-up images match those  
that are taken of a larger area, showing the property.  And Mr and Mrs W havent provided  
me with any other photos  so I have no reason to doubt the ones  I have seen. 
Mr and Mrs W have  raised concerns that the surveyor  didnt have any identification 
documents on him when he attended  their home.  Lloyds has said this isnt something it asks 
it contractors to do. But I can see why Mr and Mrs W might have been concerned about 
letting someone into their home without being sure of whom he was. Ive looked at the 
communication between  Lloyds and Mr and Mrs W and it looks like they were told someone 
would be coming  to their property, so whilst I can see their concern I dont think  Lloyds need 
to pay any compensation  for this.  
Ref: DRN77742253Im aware Mr and Mrs W are yet to carry out the internal repair  work.  Theyve  argued  it 
should be covered  as they have accidental damage  cover under their policy. Lloyds hasnt 
agreed to cover it as it believes  the damage  has happened over time.  It says there was 
evidence of mould and tide marks which wouldnt have happened  as a result  of a one-off  
event, so it isnt covered  under accidental  damage. 
The policy says any loss or damage caused by something that happens gradually over time 
is excluded. Having reviewed the report I think Lloyds is entitled to rely on this exclusion. It 
noted that Mr and Mrs W werent sure when  the stain on the ceiling had first appeared; they 
were unsure  if it was before Christmas 2017  or after. But either  way, it does  suggest  the 
stain had appeared over a period of time instead of as a result of a one-off event, so its not 
covered under the policy. 
Lloyds has accepted it didnt respond to one of Mr Ws letters,  and it offered  £25 to 
recognise the inconvenience  caused.  I think this is reasonable amount and Im satisfied 
Lloyds then did look into the complaint when it received a further letter.
I realise Mr and Mrs W feel very strongly about this claim, but for the reasons given above  I 
dont think Lloyds needs to do anything differently.
my final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7774225