K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the way in which  his claim was handled by Sabre Insurance Company
Limited. Reference to Sabre Insurance Company includes  its agents. Mr H is represented  by
his legal representative
background
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with Sabre. When his car suffered an arson attack,  he
reported it to the police and submitted a claim to Sabre. Sabre asked Mr H to meet  with their
loss adjuster at his home address, which was also the risk address. Mr H agreed to the
meeting at his home address initially, but then changed his mind and said he wanted to meet
at an alternative place and offered to meet at his mothers address or his legal
representatives office.
Sabre insisted the meeting take place  at Mr Hs home address. And because he didnt
agree, about two months after the claim,  they formally withdrew  indemnity. This meant  that
they would  no longer  consider his claim.  They then cancelled his policy,  but continued to
pursue him for the outstanding premium,  saying they would only stop pursuing  Mr H if he
withdrew his claim.
Mr H appointed a legal  representative to act on his behalf. He said that there wasnt anything
in his policy to say that he had to be interviewed  by a loss adjuster and he didnt want to be
interviewed at his home address because  he didnt want to involve his family. Mr Hs legal
representative said there were language barriers and Mr H was of a nervous  disposition and
found dealing  with such matters stressful. For these reasons,  he suggested the interview
could be at their office.
Sabre said they had no objection to Mr Hs legal representatives being present at the
interview, but insisted  the interview be conducted at the risk address. They issued their final
response letter, which simply  said as Mr H wasnt willing to be interviewed, the indemnity
was formally withdrawn.
Mr Hs legal representative  said Sabre  were in breach of the rules laid down in the Financial
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  Insurance Conduct  of Business Sourcebook or ICOBS rules  and
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said it was reasonable for Sabre to insist
the interview took place at Mr Hs home  address with his legal representatives  be present.
She didnt  think Mr Hs language barrier would hinder him as he had already given a
statement to the police. And, although  Mr H couldnt  speak very good  English, - from what
his legal representative had said - he was able to communicate. She thought that Sabre
were justified for withdrawing  their indemnity. So, she didnt uphold this part of the complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair that Sabre cancelled the policy, and she didnt think  it
was fair that that they would only issue a pro rata refund if Mr H agreed not to pursue his
claim, so she upheld this part of the complaint. But she asked Sabre  to remove the policy
cancellation from its records  and any other  database and pro rata refund of premium.
Sabre accepted our investigators view, although it didnt actually confirm it had removed any
record of the cancellation.  But Mr Hs legal representative didnt. He didnt  think that our
investigator had considered the ICOBS rules  and he didnt  think  it was reasonable for Sabre
to insist the interview with the loss adjuster  take place at his home address.
Ref: DRN76691452Mr H asked for the matter  to be looked at by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2020  in which I set out the following  provisional  
findings and provisional decision:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this. Ive come to a different
view from the investigator  and Ill explain why.
My first step is to look at the terms and conditions of the policy  and to see if theyve been
applied fairly  and I dont think they have. The policy wording says the following in clause 3
under section G of the policy:
You and any other person claiming indemnity  must provide us with
all information and assistance necessary to investigate  and settle
claims made under this Policy
I think this means that Mr H must co-operate with Sabre in providing them with all the
information and assistance necessary to investigate and settle claims. Sabre have relied on
this clause to say that Mr H hasnt  co-operated with them, but I dont think thats right.  I say
this because from the evidence Ive seen  Mr H is willing  to meet  their loss adjuster and give
them an interview,  he just doesnt want to do this at his home address.
I think Sabres insistence that the interview must be at his home address, because this is his
risk address  is unfair  at this stage.  They  havent conducted the interview,  and so they dont
have enough information to draw  any inference  from his refusal  to meet  at his home
address. So, I dont agree with our investigator  on this point, and I think its reasonable for
the interview to take place at the offices  of Mr Hs legal representatives. Under the terms of
the policy, Mr H is required to provide information,  and this is what he is willing  to do, so I
dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Mr H has breached this term. And I think  it was
premature of Sabre  to withdraw indemnity.
The policy terms and conditions also refer to the circumstances  where a policy can be
cancelled, and the terms say:
We may cancel the Policy by giving  seven clays' notice  in writing, via post or email,
to your last known home address  or email address. Subject  to no claim arising in the
current period of insurance, we will give a return  of premium for the unexpired
portion of the policy less any administration charge unless the cancellation is due to
fraud and we are legally entitled to keep  the premium under the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012. Please note: The Consumer  Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 sets out situations where failure by a
policyholder to provide complete and accurate information allows the us to cancel
the policy, sometimes back  to its start date,  and keep any premiums paid."
Sabre cancelled the policy on the grounds that Mr H failed to provide complete and accurate
information. And theyve  said that they would  only stop pursuing the premium payments if Mr
H withdrew his claim.
But I dont think Sabre  treated Mr H fairly by cancelling his policy. Im satisfied that Mr H
Ref: DRN76691453hasnt failed to provide  complete and accurate  information, he just hasnt been  given  the
opportunity to do so. And I agree with Mr Hs legal representatives when they told our
investigator that Mr H can do the interview anywhere, so I think  that Sabre have acted too
hastily when concluding  that Mr H isnt co-operating  with them and cancelling  his policy.
After considering the terms  and conditions, I also need to consider the rules laid down in the
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook or ICOBS
rules.
Rule 8.1.1 says
An insurer  must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly:
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress:
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy):  
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
I cant see that Sabre  have handled  Mr Hs claim promptly or fairly by declining  to interview
him at all. Im also satisfied that the claim has been  rejected  unreasonably  in breach of the
rules. I say this because,  whilst I hear what Sabre are saying about their investigations and
Mr Hs lack of co-operation, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for them to withdraw
indemnity and cancel the policy when he was willing to be interviewed.  I think a reasonable
approach would be to have taken  a statement from Mr H and then carry out a full
investigation before withdrawing the indemnity and then cancelling the policy.
In summary,  I dont think Sabres approach in withdrawing indemnity and cancelling the
policy was reasonable. And it follows that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint is for them to reinstate the policy, subject to Mr H returning  any premium  refund
hes received. It should also interview Mr H at his legal representatives offices and then
reconsider his claim and its position  on the policy.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint
and order Sabre Insurance Company  Limited  to reinstate Mr Hs policy,  subject to him
returning any refund of premium, hes received, interview him at his legal representatives
offices about his claim and any associated issues and then reconsider his claim in line with
the policy terms. I also intend to make  Sabre remove the policy  cancellation from Mr Hs file
or any other  database.
Mr Hs representatives havent  responded to the provisional decision, but Sabre have. They  
say that they would have  been happy to meet with Mr H anywhere, but their investigations 
have led them to conclude that Mr H has provided them  with false  information,  and they still 
havent been provided with proof  of ownership  of the car.
Ref: DRN76691454Sabre say theyve  noted Mr H speaks perfect  English and believe that language  barrier 
excuse was used  as a reason why Mr H couldnt be interviewed. They say that the policy 
was cancelled because  Mr H wouldnt co-operate with them  and are concerned that their 
position will be prejudiced  if Mr H is interviewed now, especially because they say that a 
length of time has passed.
 
Sabre also say that the pro-rata refund of premium  was backdated to the date of the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Sabres response,  but Im not persuaded to change my provisional decision.  
Its clear that Sabre have  carried  out their own investigations and reached a conclusion,  but 
my view is that theyve reached this conclusion without interviewing  Mr H. Ive noted that 
they say the policy was cancelled because Mr H wouldnt co-operate  with them, and they 
think that Mr H used  the language barrier as an excuse not to be interviewed.  But Mr H 
hasnt refused to be interviewed, he just wanted it to be done away  from his home. So, I see 
no reason to reach a different conclusion from the one set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that 
Sabre Insurance  Company Limited should  interview Mr H at his legal representatives
Offices, or at some other mutually  agreed location, in the presence of his legal 
representatives, about his claim and any associated  issues.  And then reconsider his claim in 
line with the policy terms.
Sabre should  remove any record of policy cancellation from Mr Hs file or any other 
database, if it hasnt  already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Sejal Karia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7669145