K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit  card. He says he was made to feel he had to have  the PPI cover otherwise he 
wouldnt be allowed the card.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr R 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr Rs recollections  about being  mis-sold  PPI are honestly and genuinely 
held. However, these events took place a considerable  time ago and records show  that he 
applied for the credit  card in 1997.
We know this because  we have a copy of the application form he used and I can see there  
is a yes or no option about having PPI with the new card. Mr Rs form had a tick in the 
yes box directly next to where it said Yes,  I want my Barclaycard Account to be covered 
against unemployment, accident,  sickness and death. He left the no box blank and he 
also signed the form.
I think this therefore  shows its much more likely he wanted PPI and could  see there was a 
choice available  to him. 
Barclays says this was a branch application and so probably an advised sale.  Such sales  
usually required the business to make  sure the policy was suited to the individual 
circumstances of the applicant  and I think this PPI policy  was suitable for Mr R.
I say this because  he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I also see that the cost was around 69p 
for every £100 outstanding on the card each month, which I think  would have been 
affordable for him. 
I note Mr R already had some protection  against  sickness with his job although I think this 
would have been quite moderate. Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of 
use. The policy would have paid off, for example, 10% of his outstanding credit card 
balance, for up to a year,  if hed needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition  to any other  
means he had at that time. 
Mr R also said that because he was living at home  at the time with his parents he didnt need 
the protection of a PPI policy. Ive considered  this but whilst Im sure that whilst his parents 
would have wanted to help out if needed, that would depend on their ability to pay over an 
unspecified and extended time period.
Ref: DRN70155692So overall, I think the PPI policy Mr R asked for was suitable for him. 
Barclays also had a duty to make  sure it provided  clear enough  information  to enable Mr R 
to make an informed decision about  what he wanted  to do. I can certainly see ways in which 
the form could  have been clearer.  But I also think some additional written and verbal 
information about the rules and terms of the PPI would have been provided at the time of the 
sale. And even if I accept Barclays could and should  have  done  more, I still dont think this 
would have changed what Mr R went on to do. This is because the evidence  shows  he 
wanted the cover and would have seen he had a choice.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R but I think the evidence shows he chose the policy  himself and 
would have known  it wasnt something  he needed  to have in order to get the card.  This 
means Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back any 
money to Mr R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7015569