K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) proceeded with court 
action against  him for repossession of his property, despite having agreed  to a payment 
arrangement with him. He wants the court order to be set aside and to be reimbursed for the 
costs hes incurred, as well as a payment of compensation  for distress.
background
Mr L has a mortgage  with Halifax which unfortunately fell into arrears.  This complaint centres 
on what happened in November 2018, when the arrears were approximately £18,000.  
Mr L says that he spoke to Halifax on 20 and 22 November 2018 when a payment 
arrangement was agreed. But despite this, Mr L says that Halifax  continued with possession  
proceedings. 
On 14 January 2019 the court granted a possession  order, suspended on payment of the 
current monthly instalment plus £107 towards the arrears. Mr L was also ordered to pay 
£10,000 within 14 days of receipt of an anticipated personal injury  settlement. The court also 
made a money  judgment for £104,991.14.
Mr L complained to Halifax. He said that a payment plan had been  agreed and so it was 
unfair to proceed  with the court action. Halifax noted  that there had been two calls with Mr L 
on 20 and 22 November  2018, but it wasnt able to locate the call recordings. The notes 
made by Halifax at the time of those calls didnt  show any payment arrangement had been 
agreed.
Mr L was dissatisfied  with Halifaxs response. He complained to us. An investigator looked  at 
the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. In a letter  to Mr L dated 9 September  2019 
he set out the content of Halifaxs call notes for 20 and 22 November 2018. 
He noted that Halifax  had said that if a payment plan could be agreed,  there was more  
chance of avoiding legal action, but there  was no actual payment plan set up, nor was 
payment made of the full monthly mortgage instalment. Because of this, the investigator 
didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this, Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether, in going  ahead with the possession  action,  Halifax acted 
fairly and reasonably. I note Mr L wants the court order cancelled. But I have no power to 
overturn a court order. 
Ive reviewed the contact  notes for the calls on 20 and 22 November 2018. I wont  repeat the 
notes here because the investigator set them out in full in his letter of 9 September 2019. 
These notes are contemporaneous   that is, they were made  at the time of the call. So Im 
satisfied that I can rely on those notes as being an accurate record  of what  was discussed at 
the time.
Ref: DRN77154332There is nothing in the notes to show that a payment arrangement was put in place during 
either call. The notes record discussions around  Mr Ls circumstances and his intentions  to 
pay, but it is also clear  that Halifax said that Mr L would need to make  a payment before any 
arrangement could be put in place.
In the circumstances, although I appreciate Mr L might have misunderstood  the position, Im 
satisfied that no payment  arrangement was agreed  on either 20 or 22 November 2018. And 
if he did misunderstand, I dont think it was because he was misled by Halifax. I say this 
because the notes are clear that Mr L would need  to be making payments before an 
arrangement could be agreed.
Mr L paid £750  on 17 December 2018,  but the actual payment due was £853.04. Given this, 
I dont think Halifax did anything wrong  in proceeding with the possession case. 
Mr L attended the court hearing  and had the opportunity  to put his side of things to the court.  
If the court had considered that Halifax wasnt entitled to go ahead with the application for 
possession, it would  have  adjourned the hearing. As I said above, I cant  cancel  the court 
order. If Mr L is unhappy that the order  was made,  he will need to go back  to the court which  
granted the order  to ask for it to be overturned. Its not something Im able to do. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7715433