K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC gave incorrect information  to the Department for 
Work & Pensions (DWP) in relation to his mortgage account, which caused him loss of 
benefit.
background
In 2004, Mr J took out an interest only mortgage  over seven years.  So the mortgage came to 
the end of its term in July 2011. Theres been contact between Mr J and Barclays  over 
several years about repayment. 
Over the years, Barclays responded to several requests for information  from the DWP in 
relation to Mr Js mortgage  account.  Mr J says Barclays still has a mortgage over his 
property, even though the mortgage  term has expired. He says that Barclays has provided  
conflicting information to the DWP about  the mortgage balance and arrears. 
Barclays said that as the mortgage term has expired, the full balance is outstanding. It sent 
Mr J compensation of £150 in relation to the confusion hed been caused  by the provision of 
conflicting information about the issue. 
Our investigator said that Barclays gave different information to the DWP at different times. 
But he couldnt see that had affected  Mr Js application or the claims process. So, he didnt 
ask Barclays to resend  information to the DWP.
The investigator said that Mr J had provided us with a letter  in which  the DWP asked Mr J to 
consent to Barclays  discussing the matter with it. He thought that was a reasonable 
approach. 
Mr J didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said the investigators comments  about the DWPs  
efforts to contact Barclays dont  accord with the correspondence. Mr J also said that 
Barclays didnt tell the DWP what the ongoing  interest payable on the mortgage was. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the mortgage term ended in 2011,  the capital  owed by Mr J was due. As Mr J didnt 
repay the capital  owed,  it became part of the arrears balance.  I dont think that Barclays  was 
wrong to categorise  the capital owed as arrears after the mortgage term had ended and the 
capital hadnt  been repaid. 
The confusion has arisen because Barclays hasnt been consistent  about how it reported  
matters to The Pension Service, which is part of the DWP. Ill refer to two of the letters by 
way of examples.  In Barclays  letter  to The Pension  Service in July 2015, it said that the 
balance of the mortgage outstanding as at 6 October 2014 was £304,120.94 and the arrears 
were zero. But in its letter to The Pension  Service in February 2018, Barclays said that the 
balance as at 31 January  2018 was £20,003.95 and the arrears were £333,289.26. 
Ref: DRN79305742Benefits are a complicated area and Im not an expert in them.  But I understand that benefit  
payments and other help offered by the government dont cover arrears  or the outstanding 
capital on the mortgage. As Ive said, I dont think that Barclays was wrong to categorise the 
overdue capital  as arrears. In any event, there  are several factors  that affect  Mr Js 
entitlement to benefit. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can safely  conclude that 
Barclays is responsible  for any loss of Mr Js benefit.  
Barclays has already  paid £150  to Mr B for the confusion its correspondence has caused. I 
think thats fair. Mr J has said that he hasnt  received that payment but Barclays has shown 
that it paid it to Mr Js account ending 340.  Barclays  also said that if the DWP wants  the 
information in some other form,  it should write to it and Barclays  will deal with that.   
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J but for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7930574