K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA wont  refund to her the money that she 
paid for two mats.
background
Ms R bought two mats from an online supplier in February  2019  and paid £42.98  for them 
using her PayPal account. She received the mats in March 2019 one of which was washed  
and deteriorated.  She claimed a refund from PayPal under its buyer protection policy  
because she said that shed ordered  washable mats. She says that she was told that she 
wasnt covered under  the buyer protection policy because  shed  washed  the mat. She wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Ms R 
hadnt been able to provide evidence to show that the mats werent as described and that, 
as one of the mats was washed, it wouldnt fall under PayPals buyer  protection  policy  as it 
would be a product  warranty  issue. And he said that Ms R had complained to PayPal using 
an online  platform for which it wasnt responsible. So he didnt think  that PayPal had done 
anything wrong  by not reimbursing Ms R for the cost of the mats.
Ms R has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says that she 
sent a video of the mats to PayPal with pictures  of the washed and unwashed mats and she 
would like a refund for both of them. She says that she wouldnt know that the mat wasnt 
washable until shed  washed it. She also says that she contacted the seller  to return the 
unwashed mat but got no reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has sent a link to a video of the mats that she bought - but the link no longer works  and 
she says that the video  has been taken down by the seller. She says that she bought  the 
mats because they were  washable and shes provided a screenshot  of her purchase details 
which shows that she bought two magic non slip door mats  but it provides no further 
information about the mats and doesnt  say whether or not they were washable.
Ms R says that her husband washed  one of the mats  and it deteriorated so she claimed a 
refund of the money that shed paid for both mats from PayPal under its buyer  protection  
policy. It says that she accepted its user agreement before using  its payment  services  and 
the agreement  included the buyer protection policy and that its its decision at its sole 
discretion whether to offer a refund under that policy.
It says that Ms R claim  for the mats would be on the basis that they were significantly not as 
described and that shed used and washed  one of the mats so the claim related to an 
unsatisfactory item condition after she had used it, as such her dispute falls under product 
warranty issue, which is not covered under PayPal Buyer Protection.
I can understand Ms Rs frustration that the mats  arent of the quality that she was expecting. 
But she hasnt been able to provide the advert for the mats to show  how they were  described 
and PayPal has explained why it considers that the washed mat isnt covered by its buyer 
Ref: DRN76594612protection policy. And it says that she claimed a refund  for both mats  and its dealt  with her 
claim as one claim for the full amount that she paid for the mats. 
There have been  some issues with PayPals response to Ms Rs complaint. But she made 
her complaint using  an online platform for which PayPal isnt responsible and it says that it 
didnt receive her initial complaint. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that PayPal has dealt with Ms Rs 
complaint incorrectly. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
refund to her the £42.98  that she paid for the mats   or to take any other  action in response  
to her complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659461