K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997.  Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case either 
of them  was off work  sick or lost their job.
Nationwide agreed  that it shouldnt have  sold PPI for Mr S, and offered to refund the cost of 
covering him. But it felt that the policy was useful for Mrs S and argued  it hadnt otherwise 
mis-sold it. Our adjudicator thought that Nationwides offer was fair. Mr and Mrs S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
Having done that, I think  Nationwide has already offered  to resolve this complaint fairly, so 
I dont think it needs to offer anything more  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
very understandable  that neither side have all the documents from the time.  Indeed,  under 
data protection  regulations Nationwide were  required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ss data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. To clarify,  Nationwide has not refused to give our service  
any information or documents here, as Mr and Mrs S have suggested  the building society 
did. Nationwide has given  us the documents it has, but it only has a few documents simply 
because of the sheer amount of time thats  passed. And to further clarify, this does not have 
anything to do with the Plevin judgement, which only relates  to commission,  and does not 
relate to providing  us with this information.  Nationwide are obligated to give us the relevant 
information it has, and Im satisfied thats  what its done here.
I have a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  application, which did not make  any requirements 
about taking PPI, or any implications that PPI was in any way necessary for the mortgage. It 
simply had a small subsection which briefly outlined what PPI was for, and said it was 
something Nationwide offered  and could give Mr and Mrs S more  details about. In order to 
get the policy, it looks like Mr and Mrs S wouldve applied for it separately to applying  for the 
mortgage itself  though  because of the time thats passed I dont have a copy of that form. 
But Ive not seen any wider problems with Nationwides sale process  from the time, nor any 
evidence which shows it misled or unfairly  pressured Mr and Mrs S here. And it looks like 
Mr and Mrs S made changes to the PPI in 1999,  so it seems they were aware they had the 
policy at the time  even if, understandably, they may have forgotten  about it as the years 
went on. Overall, I think its most  likely  that Nationwide  made  Mr and Mrs S aware  they had 
a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Ref: DRN74759852Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it didnt  have to check if it was 
right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs S clear information about the PPI, so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was right for them. Nationwide has already offered to 
refund the cost of Mr Ss cover, so Ill only consider whether it shouldve been  sold to Mrs S.
It is possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs S about  PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better  information  was likely to 
have changed  their minds  about  covering Mrs S. But Mrs S wasnt  affected  by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. Further, according to her employer, Mrs S only had very 
limited sick pay  just 15 days  whereas the PPI covered her for up to a year in any one 
claim. And she doesnt seem to have  had any alternative protection in case she lost her job, 
aside from a relatively small amount of shares, which wouldve only lasted so long when 
needed to replace her income.
I understand that the family may have  been more than willing to help, but circumstances 
change and there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
mortgage was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility, not anyone elses  so it wouldnt usually be 
suitable to rely on someone else to pay it, and the PPI meant they wouldnt have to. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that Mrs S was the majority earner at the time, and without the PPI 
Mr and Mrs S couldve been at serious  risk of losing their home if something had happened 
to Mrs S. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for Mrs S in protecting the home  
and giving some  peace  of mind.
Further, the policy was not bad value  given how much it would pay out in a claim,  and it 
looks like it wouldve been affordable for Mr and Mrs S. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs S could cancel  it at any time without a penalty. Overall,  I dont  
think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover for Mrs S.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I think Nationwide Building Society has already made a 
fair offer to resolve  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Nationwide  Building Society should pay the 
compensation it has offered to, if it has not done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7475985