K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC in January 2006 to 
invest £7,000  in a stocks  and shares ISA.
Hes represented by a firm of solicitors, which has said that:
as an inexperienced investor,  Mr H was under  the impression  that his money  would 
be invested in low risk funds he could call on, as necessary, to pay for a new 
caravan;
the ISA carried more risk to his capital than he was prepared  to take for someone 
with no previous investment experience;
the amount  he was advised to invest was too much, left him insufficient cash 
reserves for emergencies and didnt account for planned expenditures;
Mr H wasnt  given enough time to reflect on the nature of the investment he was 
advised, and the sale was completed at one meeting.
background
In response, Lloyds  rejected Mr Hs complaint because the ISA invested in a fund that 
presented a cautious degree of risk he was prepared to take. This was acceptable for a 
first-time investor. 
Mr Hs income  from employment, plus state benefits his wife received, gave them  a healthy 
monthly disposable income of almost £700. He was approximately  five years from retirement 
when he would receive a capital sum from his employer of approximately £8,000  and a full 
basic state pension.  He was recommended to invest just over 30 per cent of their total 
capital savings and theres no evidence he required any of this money before he retired. 
Mr Hs representative didnt accept  Lloyds decision and said that:
Mr Hs employer didnt offer an occupational pension; it provided a voluntary scheme  
offering a benefits package that enabled  him, among other things,  to save  capital 
sums he could invest in a personal pension at retirement. In the event, this scheme 
gave him little benefit, as he was made redundant in April 2007;
it wasnt appropriate to justify the advice  by arguing that he was due a lump sum five 
years later; otherwise;
Mr H was only guaranteed a basic  state  pension in around  five years time.
he made it clear to the adviser  in 2006 that he was intending  to replace his existing 
caravan and would need a capital sum to do so. In the event, he surrendered the ISA 
in April 2007 for a capital loss of £200;  
it wasnt appropriate for Mr H to invest £7,000 of his capital savings and expect a 
monthly disposable income and his likely future  income to meet his ongoing capital 
expenditure needs.
Lloyds maintained that the advice Mr H received was suitable for him. It added that neither 
the adviser nor Mr H himself  could have foreseen in January  2006  that hed be made 
redundant in April 2007 and it was reasonable to use his spare income to make-up for the 
capital sum he invested and any losses in the five years to his retirement.
Ref: DRN71187412Likewise, there is no evidence at the point of sale that Mr H was planning to purchase  a 
brand-new caravan, whose need  appears to have been triggered by retiring earlier than 
he expected.
Mr Hs complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who, on balance, felt it should  be 
upheld. 
Briefly, he thought Mr Hs capital savings of £22,000 he shared with his wife in her deposit  
account (she being a non-taxpayer), plus a disposable  income  of almost £200 per month 
was enough to justify advice to invest a modest  sum for medium-to-long-term capital growth. 
Also, he noted  that Mr H had no debts other than a car loan which he opted not to repay due 
to its low interest rate. Almost £8,000  of their savings was put aside as a cash  reserve for 
emergencies, which equated  to six months outgoings.
But the adviser also needed  to have regard for Mr Hs previous investment experience and 
his likely attitude to risk. The answers Mr H gave  to a risk profile questionnaire are 
conflicting, particularly  those in response  to questions about  the effect of inflation  on his 
savings and his willingness  to accept short term fluctuations on value of his capital for long 
term gains. 
Above all, the investigator felt Mr H wanted  capital security and he should  not have been 
advised to invest  in a risk-based product, whether or not he had capacity to do so. He 
recommended that Lloyds  should  compensate Mr H for any loss he suffered when he 
surrendered the ISA in April 2007,  compared to the value £7,000  would have acquired if he 
had invested at a benchmark rate representing  the return from 12 to 17-month  fixed rate 
bonds. Interest  on any loss at that date should be added at eight per cent per annum simple  
to the date of settlement.
In response, Lloyds  disagreed with the investigators  assessment. It maintained  that:
Mr Hs answers  to the risk profile questions shouldnt be taken in isolation as they 
dont reflect his financial position. He was aware  of the deposit-based alternatives but 
wanted to invest  for capital growth over the longer term and the ISA was tax efficient 
at a low level of risk.
the advisers suitability letter states  that You [Mr H] realise that to have this potential 
you need to accept a degree  of risk to your capital  and You indicated that you did 
not require an element  of capital security.  So, Mr H couldnt say he didnt know the 
value of his ISA might fluctuate and wasnt secure - he says so in his complaint.
if the paperwork appears contradictory,  its important to establish whether a 
recommendation was suitable according to Mr Hs circumstances as well. Mr Hs 
finances were stable, and he wanted to invest in a cautious fund over the next five 
years for his retirement.  That seems to be an entirely reasonable objective and he 
raised no concerns  when he surrendered  the ISA at a loss after 15 months;
the evidence  provided by the factfind and suitability letter completed at the point of 
sale confirms that Mr H wished to maximise his capital returns for retirement  without 
exposing his capital  to too much  risk;
the investigator had been satisfied that Mr H had enough disposable income to 
support his lifestyle and the capacity to invest;
Mr H wanted to invest for five years  and it took a change of circumstances to alter his 
plans;
Ref: DRN71187413he did not want capital  security and wasnt concerned about short  term stock  market 
movements. He was prepared to accept some  risk to maintain the value of his 
savings in real terms.
As the investigator  wasnt inclined  to change his view, the complaint has been referred to me 
for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Specifically, I have assessed the advice Mr H received in January 2006 against  the evidence  
that exists of his personal and financial circumstances at that time.
  
So, Im inclined to agree with Lloyds that I cant be influenced by events in April 2007  Mr H 
could not have foreseen, or mentioned  to the adviser, in January 2006; namely, that he 
received notice of redundancy,  proposed to purchase  a brand new caravan  and surrendered 
his ISA to fund it (all of which I suspect  are events that triggered each other  in that order).  
While its reasonable  to believe that Mr H would have received a sizeable redundancy 
payment from his employer, given  his length of service,  this isnt relevant to my assessment 
of the advice either, especially as I dont know how Mr H made  use of this lump sum.
But I do think its relevant  to consider Mr Hs wifes  personal and financial circumstances in 
January 2006  as well, because  she also received advice at that time to invest  £7,000 in an 
ISA from their joint savings of £22,000 which  came  from the sale proceeds  of their home 
when they chose to downsize and rent. It would seem from this that both Mr and Mrs H 
previously had little savings at all. Mrs H was a non-taxpayer and she received state 
disability allowances  of almost £500  per month.  
While Lloyds has suggested  that these benefits contribute  to Mr and Mrs H enjoying  a 
monthly disposable income of £700, the nature of these benefits, and their purpose,  makes 
me inclined to believe  that their true disposable income was closer to £200 per month. Also, 
when Mrs H reached state pension age in 2012,  it would be expected  that she could lose 
some of her state benefits.      
Accordingly, when  Mrs H complained to Lloyds,  it upheld her complaint because  a risk-
based ISA wasnt  considered suitable for her. 
In my view, the same conclusion can be reached  for Mr H.     
 
In approximately  five years time, Mr H was due to receive a basic state  pension  of less than 
£100 per week and a modest lump sum from his employers benefits scheme. (In 2006, Mr H 
earned £23,500 per annum.) Even  in January 2006,  it could be envisaged that their joint 
income would  reduce  substantially on his retirement  (and possibly more  so when Mrs H also 
reached state pension age).
In my view, regardless of the outcome  of the risk profile questionnaire  Mr H completed,  it 
was crucial that the modest savings they held didnt carry  a risk of capital loss. 
That Lloyds decided  Mrs H should not have invested  £7,000  of their savings in an ISA 
doesnt change  the fact that Mr H was recommended to invest  the whole of their remaining 
Ref: DRN71187414available savings (having put aside £8,000 as an emergency cash reserve)  in a risk-based 
product. I dont think he should have been  advised  to do so, given his likely financial position  
at retirement.  
The answers Mr H gave  to the risk profile  questions (even accepting that some were 
contradictory) do suggest that he might be prepared to take small degree  of risk. But his lack 
of any previous investment experience at age 60, his known financial position in 2006 and 
his likely circumstances in five years time, in my view, meant he could ill-afford to take any 
risk at all with his money.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Hs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Lloyds do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Lloyds should  also pay interest as set out below. Income  tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
ISA  surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
Ref: DRN71187415the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr H wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr H would have invested  only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Lloyds  Bank PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should provide details  of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118741