K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complained about Great Lakes Insurance SEs (Great Lakes)  decision  to turn down 
his unemployment  claim made under a payment protection insurance policy.
All references in this decision  to Great Lakes include its appointed claims handlers and 
administrative agents.
background
In February 2018  Mr R took out an insurance policy. Subject to certain exclusions and 
limitations the policy provided cover in the event Mr R became unemployed.
In January 2019, Mr R contacted Great Lakes to make a claim for unemployment  on his 
policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mr Rs claim. Broadly summarised it felt that Mr R was aware of 
the possibility  of impending unemployment  when he took out the policy  and this wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy.
Unhappy, Mr R referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought Great Lakes  had acted unfairly. 
They thought while Mr R may well have been aware  that his employer  a retailer  was 
facing financial difficulty, he wasnt aware  in February 2018  of the possibility of impending 
unemployment. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint and recommended  that Great Lakes  
reconsider Mr Rs unemployment claim. 
Great Lakes disagreed with our adjudicators  opinion. It said there was enough media 
coverage to show Mr Rs employer had been in trouble for many  years and provided links to 
several news articles. It also questioned why Mr R took out the policy when he did. 
Great Lakes maintained its belief that Mr R was reasonably aware of the possibility of 
impending unemployment when he took the policy.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Rs complaint, and for the same  reasons as our adjudicator  
concluded.
First, I would like to say that insurance  is there to protect against the unforeseen. It is 
understandable that where  an insured person is deemed as likely to claim because of a 
reasonably foreseeable circumstance, an insurer would want to seek to limit those occasions 
where it would  have to pay out. And for these reasons insurance policies will have certain  
exclusions and limitations.
This is to prevent people taking out a policy knowing theyd  be claiming on it, for example. 
But I dont think that is the case here. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN75738322Great Lakes turned down Mr Rs unemployment claim as it considered Mr R was aware  of 
the possibility  of impending unemployment  when he took out the policy  and this wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy.
Given this, Ive looked at the term that Great Lakes are seeking to rely on to decline Mr Rs 
claim.
The policy states:
6. When will We not pay Benefits?
We will not pay Benefit if:
3) You were aware of the possibility of impending Unemployment  at the Start  Date, 
notwithstanding that no specific reference  has been made to Your  personal situation 
and that Your  Unemployment  may not take place until after 120 days  of the Start 
Date; or
The term and the way in which it has been written are extremely important. For the exclusion 
to apply, Mr R would need to have been  aware  of the possibility of impending  unemployment 
at the start date of the policy. Great Lakes  needs  to show  that at the start date of the policy 
Mr R was both aware  of the possibility of unemployment, and that this possibility of 
unemployment was impending.
Impending is also a key word in this term, and I think  our adjudicator  was correct and fair to 
say that impending, in other  words,  and in the absence  of a definition  contained  within the 
terms, means about to happen. 
Mr R took out his policy in February 2018.  So for Great Lakes to seek  to rely on the term 
above means that it needs to assess what Mr R would have reasonably  been  aware  of about 
his employer at the time of taking out the policy in February 2018. 
Great Lakes has relied on various media  coverage about Mr Rs employer. Looking at the all 
the information that has been provided,  I think it is fair to say that it was known that Mr Rs 
employer was facing  difficulties. 
But, and importantly, I dont think it is fair to say that because Mr Rs employer was in trouble 
it was known what would happen later on  and that Mr R was aware of the possibility of 
impending unemployment. 
Mr Rs employer was taken over in 2016. Things  didnt go well and the employer was taken 
over again  in May 2018. This was some months after Mr R had taken out the policy. 
I dont think I can fairly  say that Mr R was aware in February 2018 that his employer would 
be taken over in May 2018. And I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr R would also 
know what the new owners intentions were. In fact, a restructure took place with the new 
owners and there were  closures of some of the stores in August 2018. But Mr R, given  his 
role within the company,  wasnt made  redundant at this point.  
Ref: DRN75738323Mr R was made aware, formally, by his employer that he was to be made redundant on 
4 January 2019. Mr Rs ex-employer has written to Great Lakes explaining that Mr R had no 
prior knowledge of the restructure and it also explained why Mr Rs role ultimately became 
redundant  because more stores had been closed  than originally  planned. 
So given that Mr R was made formally aware nearly  a year after he took out the policy,  
doesnt suggest to me that he was aware  of the possibility of impending  unemployment 
when he took out the policy in February 2018.  
Great Lakes has questioned why Mr R took out the policy when he did. But by questioning 
why Mr R took out the policy  when he did, Great Lakes is alluding  to Mr R being aware  that 
he was going  to be made redundant  and so took out the policy in case  of that eventuality.  I 
disagree.
Mr R has simply said that he took out the insurance  in February  2018  because the industry 
he worked in, on the whole, wasnt  doing  well  and he wanted  the peace  of mind if anything  
was to go wrong he would have some  protection. 
I dont doubt that this is the case.  Peace  of mind is a common  reason why most people take 
out insurance. And it is why insurance  exists   for consumers to be protected if something  
goes wrong. Mr R, given the industry  he worked in, took out protection in case something 
went wrong. Ultimately something did go wrong,  which resulted in Mr R losing his job and 
legitimately claiming under his insurance.
In summary,  I consider that Great Lakes has unfairly declined Mr Rs unemployment claim. I 
am satisfied  that Mr R wasnt, in February 2018,  aware of the possibility of impending 
unemployment.
Great Lakes should  reassess Mr Rs unemployment claim taking what I have said into 
consideration. 
Mr R, given the time that has passed while this complaint has been  ongoing,  has said that 
he is starting to struggle  financially.  In fairness to Mr R, Great  Lakes should reassess Mr Rs 
claim as a matter of urgency.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Great Lakes should  reassess Mr Rs unemployment claim taking into account what  I have 
said above, and in line with the remaining policy  terms.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7573832