K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about five loans Myjar provided to Mr O between February 2016 and 
January 2017.  
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 12/02/2016 01/03/2016 1 £100.00 £114.40
2 01/03/2016 31/03/2016 1 £125.00 £156.00
3 31/03/2016 16/08/2016 6 £1,100.00 £329.87
4 12/09/2016 30/01/2017 12 £1,150.00 £173.30
5 31/01/2017 outstanding 6 £825.00 £246.33
All the loans  have been paid except for loan 5. Myjar told us that Mr O advised  on 1st June  
2017 hed unfortunately  lost his job. Myjar immediately froze the interest  and charges on 
loan 5. It put the loan on hold and set up a repayment plan. £10 a month  was agreed but 
I understand that Mr O hasnt made  any repayments  - so he still owes  money on this loan 
account. Myjar says it transferred the loan to a debt collection agency but it has now taken 
this back. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She felt she hadnt  seen  enough to say that 
loans 1 - 2 were  unfair but she felt that Myjar shouldnt have approved loans 3 - 5.  
Myjar disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly says (in summary) that the checks it 
did were proportionate. And Myjar says it isnt clear that our adjudicator  has considered all 
the information it sent us.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr O could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN71658242the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Myjar was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
I dont think Myjar was wrong to give the first two loans to Mr O. I think  its fair to say that 
loans 1 and 2 looked comfortably affordable  for Mr O based on the information Myjar had 
collected about his financial circumstances. And, at that early stage of his borrowing 
relationship with the lender, I dont  think Myjar had any reason to think  that it needed to 
make more detailed  checks into his financial situation.
Loan 3
Unlike our adjudicator, I dont feel Ive seen enough information to be able to say that its fair 
for me to uphold  Mr Os complaint about loan 3. I can see that Mr O took out loans 2 and 3 
on the same  days that he paid loans 1 and 2 respectively. But these were  quite  modest loan 
amounts in relation to what Myjar knew about his income and expenses. And in these 
circumstances, I wouldnt  reasonably expect Myjar to have been concerned that repaying 
these loans and then quickly borrowing again  twice in a row necessarily indicated any 
financial difficulties.
In saying this, Ive also taken into account that loan 3 was for a very much  larger  amount of 
money  and Mr O was asking to borrow this within just 6 weeks or so of the first loan hed 
taken out with Myjar.  
Ref: DRN71658243I think this shouldve prompted Myjar to think about  investigating Mr Os financial situation in 
more detail. Ive taken into account  that Mr O told Myjar he was making credit repayments of 
around £250 at the time. Looking at what he told Myjar about his monthly  income and his 
other expenses, I dont  think  Myjar had any reason to think that Mr O was likely to face 
difficulty repaying this loan. Hed already repaid loans  1 and 2 without any sign that this was 
difficult for him.
Its possible that Myjar could have done more,  or gone further  in its affordability assessment, 
before agreeing to provide loan 3 to Mr O. But based on the information  that Myjar had 
recorded at the time and all the information  Ive seen about Mr Os circumstances then, 
I cant fairly and reasonably say that further checks shouldve led Myjar to decline his 
application for loan 3.
Loan 4
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Os case, I think by loan 4 Myjar should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt  have provided 
this loan. 
I say this because:
loan 4 was taken out less than a month after Mr O paid loan 3 
when thinking  about sustainability, Ive kept in mind that loan 4 was also for a similar 
significant amount  of money
and it was taken  over a longer repayment term - possibly to keep the cost of the 
monthly repayments down
by now, Myjar could  see that Mr O had already been borrowing for 7 months without 
any significant gaps  in lending
and the amounts he was borrowing were increasing each time. Loan  4 was the 
largest loan hed asked for  more than 10 times  the amount of loan 1
Myjar ought to have realised that Mr Os indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably
and it was more  likely  than not Mr O had to borrow further to cover the hole repaying 
each previous loan was leaving  in his finances.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Myjar to think that it was likely  Mr O would be able to 
repay loan 4, or any further loans, in a sustainable way.
Ive carefully considered  everything Myjar has said, including its response  to our 
adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Myjar shouldve  seen that 
Mr Os indebtedness was increasing unsustainably  by the time he took out loan 4  and it 
shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue  to lending  to him. 
I think that Mr O lost out when Myjar provided loan 4 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Os indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  
I can see that in the event  Mr O repaid loan 4 relatively quickly. But when Myjar 
Ref: DRN71658244agreed this loan it was due to run for 12 months and Myjar couldnt have known that 
Mr O would repay it early. And when he did, Mr O needed to ask to borrow  again 
from Myjar the very next day 
the length of time over which Mr O borrowed these loans was likely to have negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for high-cost  loans.  By loan 4, Mr O had already been indebted to Myjar continuously  
for 7 months in a row. And any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to his 
credit rating.
So Im proposing to uphold  the complaint about loans 4 and 5.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr O hasnt said anything further in response to my provisional decision 
Myjar has confirmed it will agree  to settle  the complaint in line with what I've suggested  and 
set out its calculations showing exactly what Mr O can expect to receive. I think  this will be 
helpful to Mr O and so Ive used Myjars wording  and figures  in the putting  things  right  part 
of my decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about  this case, I still think  its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what Myjar should  do
Myjar should take the steps it has offered to do, following the directions I set out in my 
provisional decision, as follows:
pay the interest and charges on loans 4-5 (£500.94)
pay 8% statutory interest (£118.36)
less 20% HMRC Tax (£23.67)
total refund due to Mr O is £595.63  (£500.94 + £118.36 - £23.67 = £595.63) 
remove the interest and charges on loan 5 so that the principal  amount of £825 
remains and then deduct the amount Mr O has paid towards  this loan (£733.46) 
bringing the outstanding principal balance to £91.54  (£825  - £733.46 = £91.54)
and offset the balance against the redress calculated  (£595.63 - £91.54 = £504.09)
Pay Mr O the total amount  refundable  - £504.09. Mr O will have  no further 
commitments to MYJAR. 
remove all information about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Os credit  file. 
Ref: DRN71658245 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct MYJAR  Limited (Myjar) to take the steps (as it has 
offered to do) set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7165824