K820x#14complaint
Mrs I has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay her claim under her 
pet policy because  it had cancelled her policy due to unpaid  premium  instalments.
background
Mrs I took out a policy for her cat and another for her dog on 3 July 2018. Very sadly, her cat 
was involved in a road traffic accident  on 21 August 2018 sustaining severe injuries.
Mrs I was able to access her policy on line at the emergency vets on 21 August, 
consequently her cat was treated then,  and later discharged back to Mrs Is own vet for 
further treatment, where she made a good recovery.
Mrs I submitted her claim for both sets of vet fees. Allianz told Mrs I on 10 September it was 
declining her claim because her policy was cancelled due to non-payment of premiums.  It 
said when it went take her first premium  payment in July Mrs Is bank  refused  it due to 
insufficient funds.  It sent an email  to Mrs I at her correct email address on 19 July explaining  
this. Allianz said it tried to take a payment again  but Mrs Is bank again refused to it. So it 
sent another email on 31 July 2018 stating it would cancel the policies if it didnt receive the 
outstanding premium instalments within seven days.  It set another email on 5 August 
explaining her policies had been cancelled. It also sent a text message on 6 August to her 
mobile phone confirming her policies had been  cancelled from 3 August 2018.
Mrs I complained that she wasnt aware  her policy had been  cancelled and she didnt  
understand how she could then access it on 21 August  at the emergency  vets. Allianz 
wouldnt change its stance so she brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think 
Allianz had done anything  wrong given the non-payment of premiums.
Mrs I remained  dissatisfied so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, I do understand how disappointed my decision  will be for Mrs I. I also appreciate her 
financial hardship circumstances and I apologise its taken so long for a decision to be made 
on her complaint.
Theres no dispute Allianz was unable to take the premium payments from Mrs Is bank 
account. Therefore,  I consider there is nothing wrong with Allianz  consequently cancelling  
Mrs Is policies. It also did this in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy,  
which I consider is reasonable.
Allianz has shown  us that Mrs I opted to receive communications  and documents  by email  
when she applied for the policy on line. Therefore, I dont think there  was anything wrong 
with Allianz communicating with Mrs I by email.  Allianz has also shown us that it sent the 
emails using Mrs Is correct email address and that both emails of 19 July and 31 July had 
been read. Mrs I explained  she uses a shared device and that it wasnt her, who had read 
the email dated  31 July. But that isnt Allianz  fault.  From its point of view it was properly 
Ref: DRN77385212satisfied this email had been read. And its clear from what  Mrs I said she had read the first 
email. So that means she knew  then her payment instalment had not been  paid to Allianz. 
Mrs I was concerned that if her policy had been  cancelled, how then could she have  viewed 
her policy and indeed  print it off for the emergency vets on 21 August. Allianz explained that 
it permits policy documents to be viewed online for a year.  I consider thats reasonable. Also 
by 21 August, Mrs I knew from the email  dated  19 July, which she confirms  she read herself 
that there  were problems  with her premium  payments. But theres no further  evidence  to 
show me Mrs I attempted to address this since 19 July and ensure the premiums were then 
paid.
Mrs I was also concerned that if her policy had been cancelled why then did Allianz tell her 
on 8 September  her claim was being  processed.  Allianz explained that its very possible for 
claims to be made for treatment when the policy  was in being, but then processed  after the 
policy had been  cancelled. Those  claims would  be valid if the treatment occurred at a time 
the policy was active. And I consider this reasonable.
Mrs I said she was willing to pay the premium instalments to reinstate this policy so her claim 
can be paid. However,  this isnt how insurance generally works  and its not how this policy 
works. When  an insurer, Allianz here, agrees to provide insurance it does so, on the basis 
certain assumptions are met, which then means  the premium amount is set on the basis of 
those assumptions.  Normally thats ascertained  by the consumer answering questions, as to 
the present state of health of the pet to be insured. 
Given the unfortunate road traffic accident  where Mrs I cat was so badly injured, obviously 
the health of her cat wouldnt then meet the relevant underwriting  criteria to be accepted  for 
a policy, unless all issues concerning the injuries  sustained in that accident were  excluded. I 
consider theres  nothing  wrong with that, as theres no duty on an insurer to accept a risk 
where the premium  was set on the basis of good health when now that risk had changed 
quite dramatically given  the cat had such severe injuries. Every insurer,  Allianz  included  has 
the right to decide  for itself what  risks its willing to insure and what risks it would prefer not 
to insure. This, as in Allianz  case,  is usually reflected  in its underwriting  criteria.  Allianz  
appropriately explained this to Mrs I and further  offered to reinstate the policy  for Mrs Is dog. 
I also think thats reasonable.
So to conclude, Mrs I premium instalments werent paid. Allianz appropriately  communicated  
this to Mrs I via the means Mrs I indicated  on her application form, some weeks  before her 
cats accident.  It was also satisfied its communications to Mrs I concerning  this, had been 
read. As no premium was then subsequently paid, it cancelled her policies giving proper  
notice all within the terms and conditions of her policy. So I consider Allianz didnt do 
anything wrong  in either cancelling  her policy; refusing to pay her subsequent claim; or not 
agreeing to reinstate the policy so Mrs Is claim could be paid.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Ref: DRN77385213Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7738521