K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that AWP P&C SA refused her claim on her travel insurance policy.
Allianz Global Assistance  administers the policy on AWPs behalf.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
17 September 2019, an extract  of which is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so I 
wont repeat  that here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt think that AWP had acted unfairly in refusing 
Mrs Ss claim. I invited both parties  to let me have any further comments and evidence. AWP 
said it had nothing further to add. We didnt  received  a response from Mrs S.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mrs S nor AWP has provided me with anything further on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  So, I 
dont think that AWP  acted unfairly  in refusing Mrs Ss claim. I dont uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  Mrs Ss 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72197982extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complains that AWP P&C SA refused her claim  on her travel  insurance policy. Allianz  Global 
Assistance administers  the policy on AWPs behalf.
background
In March  2019, Mrs S bought  a travel  insurance  policy online.  She was making  a return  trip to the 
USA. When  Mrs S attempted to return home to the UK, the airline  in the USA wouldnt let her board 
her return flight. It said she didnt have permission to land in Canada  in order to get her connecting  
flight. Mrs S says she didnt  realise  she had a connecting  flight in Canada. She says she was stuck in 
the USA. Mrs S made a new hotel booking  for a few days whilst she arranged  to borrow money to pay 
for a direct flight home  to the UK.
Mrs S claimed against  her policy for the cost of a new flight  and hotel accommodation.  AWP declined 
Mrs Ss claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy that said that it doesnt provide cover  arising from 
her not having the correct visa.
Mrs S says that AWP didnt  make it clear at the outset  what her policy  covered and there was no 
information about visa requirements for connecting  flights.  She says that the additional expenses  
she incurred have left her in debt. Mrs S wants AWP to pay her for the additional expenses she 
incurred.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that AWP  had relied on the terms of 
the policy  in refusing Mrs Ss claim.  The investigator said that the onus was on
Mrs S to satisfy herself that the policy  met her requirements and AWP  made available the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. She said she had no idea she would  encounter this problem 
and that it was inhumane to leave her without help. Mrs S said that she didnt dispute  what the policy 
said but that it wasnt drawn to her attention until it was too late. There were further exchanges  
between the investigator and Mrs S, which  I wont set out here. As there was no agreement  between  
the parties, the complaint  was passed to me, an
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties  Mrs S faced and I dont doubt that it was very 
worrying to find herself in the circumstances  she describes.
The central  issue  for me to decide is whether AWP acted fairly in declining Mrs Ss claim. AWP  
didnt advise Mrs S about  the suitability  of the policy. So, it was for Mrs S to satisfy herself  that it 
met her needs. AWP, by its agent, sent Mrs S its Insurance Product
Information Document and the policy. When it did so, it said:
Your policy is attached  [], this document contains everything you need to know about 
the benefits you have selected. However, to ensure you understand  the cover provided, 
please read the policy  wording carefully.
Im satisfied that AWP provided Mrs S with sufficient information about the policy to enable  her to 
establish whether it met her needs.
Ref: DRN72197983AWP relies on an exclusion  to the cancellation or curtailment provisions which says that Mrs S isnt 
covered for anything caused  by her not having the correct passport or visa. But based  on what Mrs 
S has told us, she didnt cancel or curtail her journey. Mrs S was denied  boarding as she didnt have 
permission to land in Canada. So, I dont think that AWP is entitled to rely on the exclusion to which 
it has referred.
Thats not the end of the matter as Mrs Ss policy doesnt cover  everything that might
happen whilst travelling. Ive looked at the terms of Mrs Ss policy. The policy  doesnt provide cover  
for the circumstances  that arose  here. The missed  departure  provisions  relate  to a failure to get to a 
departure point  on time because  of transport difficulties. Thats not what  happened to Mrs S.
Im sorry to disappoint  Mrs S but whilst AWP relied on an irrelevant  exclusion in the policy, I dont  
think that it acted unfairly in declining her claim, as her policy doesnt cover what  happened to her. 
And Im satisfied that Mrs S had enough  information about the policy at the outset to enable her to 
decide whether it met her needs.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional  decision is that I dont intend to uphold
Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN7219798