K821x#15Complaint
Miss C complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of a claim under her home 
emergency insurance policy. 
Background
Miss C held a home emergency insurance  policy, provided by Great Lakes.
In mid-November 2018, Miss C discovered  a leak in her dining room and contacted Great
Lakes to make a claim under her policy.
An engineer  attended and said the leak was coming  from the bathroom.  Two days later,
Miss C discovered she had no heating or hot water  so she contacted Great Lakes again.
Great Lakes sent a second engineer, who identified the leak was coming from Miss Cs
boiler and said the first engineer should  have checked this.
Miss C complained to Great Lakes,  who accepted  the first engineer should have identified
the source of the leak and arranged for the boiler manufacturer (who  Ill call A) to replace
parts in Miss Cs boiler.
Miss Cs boiler was repaired and Miss C went on holiday  at the end of November 2018. On
her return  in early December 2018,  Miss C discovered the leak had resumed and she
contacted Great Lakes again.  Great Lakes gave  Miss C the contact number for A so she
could get in touch with A directly. Miss C then spoke to A on a number of occasions, who
told her it was waiting for parts which were  difficult to source.
In early January  2019, Miss C complained to Great Lakes again  as her boiler remained
unrepaired. Great Lakes  spoke to A, who said it was still waiting on parts. When the parts
arrived, A failed to attend at a pre-arranged  appointment  at Miss Cs property on 14 January
2019. Miss Cs boiler was fixed  by A the following day. Miss C says she was subsequently
told the parts had arrived before Christmas but couldnt be fitted as they were second-hand
and new parts later arrived without  any fittings.
Unhappy, Miss C brought a complaint about  Great Lakes to our service. She said her 
property had been damaged because of the leak. Miss C also said shed  been  
inconvenienced by having to take her children  to her parents house  to bathe and to sleep  on 
cold nights, missed days at work  including  a training course  and spent over £80 on phone 
bills.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld.  She said she
thought Great Lakes should  pay for repairing the water damage at Miss Cs property  and
reimburse her for telephone calls she made  to A on receipt of phone bills.
Great Lakes asked for an estimate  of the amount of the damage caused at Miss Cs property
and said it would expect  an assessment  to be carried out to determine  what  damage was
caused before A became involved. Miss C subsequently sent us quotes for repairing the
damage at her property,  which were  provided to Great Lakes. Great  Lakes didnt accept our
investigators opinion.
Ref: DRN71257142Miss Cs complaint was passed to me to decide  and I made  my provisional decision in May 
2020. In it, I said:
I asked Great Lakes  for a copy of its claims notes, which our investigator didnt have sight  
of, to better understand what happened in this case.  Whilst its not in dispute that the first
engineer should have  correctly identified the source of the leak, I think its helpful to set out
the sequence of events  in some detail before moving on to my provisional findings about;
what I think Great Lakes is responsible for;
the damage at Miss Cs property;
the distress and inconvenience  experienced by Miss C.
The sequence of events
Miss C first reported a leak on 15 November  2018. Great Lakes notes, under the heading
description of claim, show Miss C reported a fast leak was coming  from above  and damage
had already been caused to the ceiling below.
Great Lakes says an engineer attended  on the same day and thought  the leak was caused
by faulty sealant around the bath.  However, when Miss C reported there was still a leak on
17 November 2018, a second  engineer identified the problem was actually with the boiler
and said replacement parts were  required.
On 19 November 2018, Great Lakes confirmed the first engineer should have correctly
identified the source  of the leak during the initial attendance at Miss Cs property. Great
Lakes spoke to Miss C, who said her heating  and hot water  were working before the first
engineer attended. Great  Lakes notes acknowledge the boiler  had been left leaking for two
days at this point  because of the first engineers error. Great Lakes advised Miss C she
could pursue a claim through the engineers insurance for any damage to her property. On
the same  day, Great Lakes spoke to A and asked it to carry out a fixed  price  repair  on
Miss Cs boiler.
Great Lakes notes  from 21 November  2018 show Miss Cs boiler was fixed and her heating
and hot water were  restored. However, the following day, Miss C contacted Great  Lakes
again to say there was a further leak at her property. Great Lakes said it would open a new
claim and then spoke  to A, who said it would contact Miss C directly. Great Lakes got back
in touch with Miss C to update her about the situation.
Great Lakes notes  from 23 November  2018 state  A had been in touch with Miss C directly
and a further attendance  had been  arranged.  Great Lakes notes indicate Miss C had agreed
to call us if assistance is required.
After this, there was no contact between Miss C and Great Lakes for almost two and a half
weeks. During this time, Miss C says her boiler was repaired  again  by A and she then went
on holiday  on 30 November 2018.
When Miss C returned on 7 December 2018,  she discovered the leak had resumed.  Great
Lakes notes show Miss C contacted it on 11 December 2018 and it provided her with As
contact number.
Miss C says she made multiple calls to Great Lakes around this time asking it to chase A,
but was told she would  need  to deal with A directly. These calls arent reflected in Great
Ref: DRN71257143Lakes claims  notes  but, based  on what  Miss C has said,  I dont  doubt  she did try to contact
Great Lakes for assistance during this time. Miss C says she was also chasing A for an
update on the progress  of the repair but wasnt receiving  promised  call-backs and wasnt
being given clear information about when the necessary parts  were  expected  to arrive.
The next entry on Great  Lakes notes  is on 7 January 2019 when Miss C called to say she
had been chasing A directly but there  was still a leak at her property. Great Lakes spoke to
A, who said a further issue had been identified with Miss Cs boiler  on 12 December 2018
and it was waiting  on parts  to fix this. Great Lakes told Miss C it would chase  A again the
following day.
On 8 January  2019, Great Lakes updated  Miss C to say A had confirmed the necessary part
had been received and would be fitted  by the end of the week.  However, when  A hadnt
been in touch with Miss C by the following day, Great Lakes contacted A again and was told
it was still waiting for a seal kit to arrive, and this needed to be re-ordered.
Great Lakes notes  show A was still waiting for the seal kit on 10 January 2019 and, on the
same day, Great  Lakes had a discussion with Miss C about the possibility of her claiming  for
any damage caused to her property from A directly.
Great Lakes spoke to A again on 11 January 2019  and it confirmed the final part had arrived.
A told Miss C it would attend  to fit the parts  on 14 January  2019.
However, A didnt arrive at Miss Cs property on 14 January 2019 and when Great Lakes
spoke to A to confirm  why, it said the appointment was booked  for the following  day. Great
Lakes told Miss C that A had made an error  in booking the appointment.
A attended at Miss Cs property on 15 January 2019  and later confirmed to Great  Lakes that
the problem with Miss Cs boiler  had been  resolved.
What I think Great Lakes  is responsible for
The terms and conditions  of Miss Cs policy provide for Great  Lakes to arrange for a suitable
contractor to attend at the policyholders property to carry  out emergency work  in certain
emergency situations. A contractor is defined as:
A qualified person approved and instructed by the claims helpline  service  to
undertake emergency work. (This may include a Local Authority in the case  of Pest
Infestation).
Longstanding industry rules  and guidance  say an insurer must handle claims promptly  and
fairly and provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make  a claim, and provide
appropriate information on its progress.
I can see from Great Lakes claims notes that it told Miss C on 19 November 2018  she could
pursue a claim through  the first engineers insurance. However, Great Lakes is responsible
for the actions of the engineers it appointed to deal with the claim so I dont think  it was fair
for Great Lakes to attempt to direct Miss Cs concerns  elsewhere  at that point.
Great Lakes says it engaged A on 19 November 2018 as this was the most cost effective
solution. Based on the information Ive seen, I think its clear Great  Lakes appointed  and
instructed A to repair  Miss Cs boiler.  At that point, Miss C still had an emergency at her
Ref: DRN71257144property which Great Lakes had a responsibility  to resolve under  the terms and conditions  of
her insurance policy. Miss C had no input  into who Great Lakes sent to her property to
resolve the emergency and Miss C had no contact  with A until she was put in touch with it by
Great Lakes.
From Miss Cs point of view, the repair was being arranged  by Great Lakes under the terms
and conditions of her policy. So, while A might  be a separate company  to Great  Lakes, I
dont think its fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to take the position that its not responsible
for anything  that happened after this point.
Miss C was left in the position of having  to liaise with A directly when, in my opinion,  Great
Lakes should  have been continuing to progress and update her on her claim. I dont think
Great Lakes left the claim in a satisfactory position on 23 November 2018 by telling Miss C
she should contact  it if any further assistance was required.
When Miss C reported a further  leak to Great Lakes on 11 December 2018 after returning
from holiday, I dont  think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to provide her with As phone
number and leave  her to contact A directly. As Ive already  explained, I think  Great  Lakes
was responsible for dealing with Miss Cs claim and ensuring it was successfully resolved.
Regardless of whether  this was the claim originally reported on 15 November 2018 or the
new claim logged on 22 November 2018, Great Lakes  instructed A and I dont think it was
fair or reasonable  for Great Lakes to leave  Miss C to deal directly  with a third party  who she
had no contractual  relationship with.
I note Great  Lakes did speak to A on a number of occasions in January 2019 to chase the
matter for Miss C  this is what Id have expected Great Lakes to do.
Overall, this means I think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to hold Great Lakes
responsible for the entirety of what happened  during the course of Miss Cs claim.
The damage at Miss Cs property
Great Lakes has mentioned Miss C could pursue its first engineers insurer, As insurer or
her home insurer for the damage  caused to her property.
Although these options may be open  to Miss C, she has chosen to bring  her complaint about
Great Lakes,  which she is entitled  to do. So, I need  to decide whether I thinks  its fair to hold
Great Lakes responsible for the damage at Miss Cs property  bearing in mind  my
conclusions about  Great Lakes responsibility  for the entirety of the claim above.
There is no doubt that there was already damage  to Miss Cs property  when she first
reported the claim. This is recorded  in Great Lakes claim  notes and Miss C described the
leak as a fast one.
Great Lakes isnt responsible for any damage  caused by the emergency (i.e. the initial  leak)
itself. While Great Lakes may not be able to guarantee  an attendance within a specific
timeframe  especially  during peak  times   Id expect  it to arrange for this without any 
excessive or undue delay. I note Great  Lakes  did arrange for engineers  to attend at Miss Cs 
property promptly when  contacted about the leak on 15 November 2018  and on 17 
November 2018.
But, I think Great Lakes is responsible for any additional damage caused by the first
Ref: DRN71257145engineers and/or As actions.
Its not in dispute  that Miss Cs boiler  continued  to leak for a number of days after the first
engineers attendance. Miss C then noticed  the leak had re-commenced on 22 November
2018 and this was resolved by A by 30 November 2018.
When Miss C returned from holiday on 7 December 2018, she realised there was another
leak. There is no way of knowing  when  the leak resumed  it could have been on the first
day of Miss Cs holiday or it could have  been on the last. But, based on the fact A identified
that further parts were  required  on 12 December 2018, it seems likely A didnt repair the leak
satisfactorily in November 2018  as it should have done.
While Great Lakes didnt receive any contact from Miss C for over two weeks  after 23
November 2018,  Im satisfied this was primarily due to Miss C being away from home
between 30 November 2018 and 7 December 2018;  so anything that happened at her
property during this time was outside of her control.  And, as Ive already mentioned, I dont
think Great  Lakes managed Miss Cs claim in an appropriate way by directing her to deal
with A before  she went away.
I note there  was a delay  by Miss C in reporting the leak to Great  Lakes from her return on
7 December 2018 until 11 December 2018,  and I have taken this delay into account when
reaching my conclusions.
But there was a much longer delay by A in repairing  the leak after Miss C returned from
holiday; from 11 December 2018 until 15 January 2019. I have limited  information about 
what A did during  this time but, based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think there were 
unreasonable delays by A and I think Great Lakes could have offered to provide alternative 
assistance under Miss Cs policy to resolve the emergency. Im satisfied  Miss C was doing 
what she could to chase  the matter during this time,  but I dont think  Great Lakes  was 
providing reasonable assistance to Miss C until it intervened and began chasing A from 7 
January 2019.
Taking into account the timescales and the photographs Ive seen of the damage at Miss Cs
property, I think its likely  this damage was made worse  because of both the first engineers
actions and because  of As delays. While  I appreciate  some  of the damage will have been
caused by the initial  leak, Im satisfied a significant proportion of it is likely to have been
caused afterwards.
Miss C has provided what seem to me to be reasonable quotes for repairing the damage to
her floor and to her ceiling. Great Lakes has had the opportunity  to inspect the damage  at
Miss Cs property since the claim concluded  in January 2019, but hasnt done so.
Having taken all of the circumstances into account,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for
Great Lakes to pay for repairing the damage  at Miss Cs property.
The distress  and inconvenience Miss C experienced
I have no doubt  Miss C experienced significant  distress and inconvenience as a result of
how Great  Lakes handled her claim.
Miss C was left without heating and hot water for a number of days  following the first
engineers attendance. Great Lakes  notes indicate,  because the first engineer didnt
correctly identify the source  of the leak, the leak caused the heating and hot water to fail.
Ref: DRN71257146Miss C was subsequently  left with no heating and hot water for over a month during the
Christmas and New Year period. She had two young children at home and had to take them
to her parents house to bathe  and sleep on cold nights.
Miss C was further inconvenienced  and frustrated by being directed to contact A herself,
when I think Great Lakes  should have been  progressing  her claim for her under  the policy
she holds. I note Miss C estimates she spent  over £80 on telephone calls to A. Miss C also
missed a day at work because A failed to attend at her property  on 14 January  2019.
I appreciate Great Lakes notes dont mention Miss C was without heating and hot water
while she was waiting  for A to repair her boiler.  I cant discount the possibility that Miss C did
tell Great  Lakes this but it wasnt recorded.  Even  if I accept Miss C didnt explicitly tell Great
Lakes she had no heating  and hot water  during  this time, Great  Lakes was aware  there was
still an emergency at Miss Cs property and I think  it should  have  been  making  all reasonable
attempts to resolve the problem instead of directing  Miss C to contact  A.
In deciding what compensation  I think Great Lakes  should pay to Miss C, Ive taken  into
account what it has said about the value  of the work carried out on her boiler. Miss Cs policy
schedule shows she has a policy limit of £250  for call-out, labour parts and materials  for any
one claim.
Great Lakes said it wouldnt take into account  the first engineers charges  which I think is
fair. I have no evidence showing how much the second engineers  call-out charge was, but
Great Lakes notes  show the fixed price repair arranged with A cost £255.
I can see, during  a call with Miss C on 19 November 2018, Great Lakes appears to have
explained it would be covering some  of the extra  costs involved in repairing her boiler, over
and above her policy limit. Great Lakes has told us this amounts to either £149.00 or 
£164.20.
Ive taken into account that Miss C has been  compensated  to some extent already by not
having to contribute towards any costs  of repairing her boiler over £250,  which  werent
covered by her policy. But I dont  think this sufficiently compensates Miss C for the overall
distress and inconvenience she experienced in the circumstances.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes  to pay Miss C additional
compensation of £350.
In summary  therefore, I said I intended to recommend that Great Lakes should pay Miss C 
for the quotations  for the work  to repair the damage  at her property (subject to confirmation  
from the suppliers that the work  is going  ahead). I also said I intended to recommend that 
Great Lakes should  pay Miss C £350  compensation and reimburse her for the amount she 
spent contacting A, on receipt of her telephone  bills. 
Miss C accepted my provisional decision. Great Lakes said, while  it disagreed with my 
findings that it was responsible for As actions,  it would not argue this point any further.  Great 
Lakes said it would  agree  to pay the quote  to repair Miss Cs ceiling (£850) and 
compensation of £350, but this was not an admission of any failings. 
Ref: DRN71257147In relation to the quote for replacing Miss Cs flooring (£2,538.25), Great  Lakes said it 
thought this was extortionate and it would  like the opportunity to work with Miss C to rectify  
the damage at a more reasonable cost. 
Great Lakes said it would  be prepared to reimburse Miss C for any increase on her regular 
monthly telephone  bill if she can evidence this increase. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only matters which now remain in dispute  are the quote for replacing Miss Cs flooring 
and the cost of her telephone calls to A.
I think Great Lakes has already had more than a reasonable opportunity to inspect the 
damage at Miss Cs property and/or to work  with Miss C to put things right. Great  Lakes 
could have done this as early as January 2019 but, instead, Miss C has been left with 
damage at her property  since  then.  
Ive seen evidence  that quotes  for repairing the damage were first sent to Great Lakes in 
December 2019,  but it hasnt sought to dispute  the amounts  involved  until now. Great  Lakes 
has referred to the costs  of replacing  flooring in an average room  but, based  on the 
photographs Ive seen, I dont think its fair to assume Miss Cs room has the dimensions 
Great Lakes is quoting.  
Im satisfied Great Lakes  has had more than a fair chance to inspect the damage,  and to 
allow it to do what it is now proposing wouldnt be reasonable given  how long Miss C has 
been waiting to have the damage repaired.  Great Lakes comments  about the size of an 
average room dont persuade me that Miss Cs quote is excessive or unreasonable. 
In relation to Miss Cs phone bill, Great Lakes should pay the costs  of her calls to A. These 
are costs which she wouldnt otherwise have had were it not for Great  Lakes actions. Its 
irrelevant whether these  costs are an increase on her previous monthly bills or not  they are 
costs which  Miss C wouldnt have  incurred if Great Lakes had handled the claim as I think it 
should have. Miss C has estimated the cost of these calls to A were £80. My provisional 
decision made it clear that Great Lakes  is entitled  to see evidence  of these costs. 
Ive taken in account all Great Lakes additional  comments but, for the reasons  Ive outlined 
above, I dont  intend to change my provisional findings. 
Ref: DRN71257148My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must  do the following;
pay Miss C for the quotations for the work to repair the damage at her property, upon 
receipt of confirmation from the suppliers that the work is going ahead;
pay Miss C £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has 
experienced;
reimburse Miss C for the amount she spent contacting A, on receipt of her telephone 
bills.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7125714