K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly declined part of his claim on his 
property insurance, after tenants in his property were evicted by the police.
background
Mr M had a property insurance policy with Lloyds to cover a property he rented out. In 
November 2017  Mr M was informed that the tenants  at the property had been  evicted by the 
police following anti-social  behaviour. And the council had applied for a closure  order.  The 
police had also paid for shutters to be erected on all the downstairs  windows  to avoid further  
problems.
The closure order was effective for three  months  and Mr M had to apply for a possession  
order to retain the keys to the property.  The keys were returned in March 2018. Shortly after 
this he arranged to sell the property at auction. However he was advised by the auction 
house that the property would need clearing  first due to the extent of the damage. Mr M 
arranged this at the end of March.
In April 2018 Mr M made a claim on the property insurance for the cost of the clearance of 
the property. He also claimed for the cost of renting the shutters, as the police stopped  
paying this after the closure  order expired in February 2018.  Further  he claimed  for loss of 
rent over this period.  
Lloyds declined the claim however Mr M says it didnt provide an explanation  for why it did 
so. He made a complaint to Lloyds.  
It took some time for Lloyds to respond. When it did it said that it had originally written to 
Mr M to settle the claim but the letter  had been  sent to the rental address, which had been  
sold, so this was never received. It confirmed it would pay Mr M £950 to cover the cost of the 
house clearance, plus £150  interest. It also awarded  £500 compensation for the poor 
service.
Mr M accepted this but thought it should also cover the loss of rent and cost of the shutters. 
So he brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  She 
said that the loss of rent was covered under  the policy and it was reasonable for Mr M to 
continue to keep  the shutters in place as a precaution to ensure no future  damage.
Lloyds didnt agree  with our investigators assessment. It said that loss of rent was only 
covered when there had been an insured incident  and there  hadnt  been one claimed  for. 
And it said that the shutters were  originally put in as a preventative measure, but when Mr M 
started paying for them it was no longer to make the property secure but instead  an ongoing 
payment for rental equipment in lieu of proper  repairs. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77129822As Mr M is happy with part of the settlement, the only two issues  left in dispute are whether  
Lloyds has acted fairly when declining his claim for loss of rent and for the cost of renting 
the shutters. I have considered each in turn. 
Loss of rent
The policy covers payment for loss of rent. It states  as follows:
In the event that a Location suffers Damage caused  by any of the Perils  insured under 
section 1 of this Policy  the Company will indemnify the Insured for the following in respect of 
Buildings which have  suffered  Damage  caused by such Perils:
1. Loss of Rent Receivable
a. Being the amount by which the Rent Receivable during the Indemnity Period shall as a
consequence of the Damage fall short of the amount that would have been received.
So loss of rent is covered where  there  has been an insured loss. The term in the policy  that 
is in dispute here is as follows:
Prevention of access - non damage
Loss as insured caused by prevention or hindrance of access to the Buildings or prevention 
of use of the Buildings in consequence of any property or rights of way in the immediate 
vicinity of the Buildings being:
 4. closed down  or sealed off in accordance with instructions  issued by the police or by 
any other statutory  body except where  the cause  of such closure or sealing is due to the 
condition of the Buildings or the business carried on within the Buildings; the Insured or 
lessees non compliance with a prior order of the police or any statutory body; action taken 
as a result  of drought or diseases  or other hazards  to health.
As access to Mr Ms property was prevented due to it being closed down by the police, I 
agree this is the correct part of the policy to consider cover  under.  
However, Lloyds has said this wouldnt apply as there has been no loss as insured. It says 
that the loss has been experienced due to the closure order and not an insured peril. 
Therefore cover wouldnt apply. 
I have considered whether this is fair. To do so, I have looked at the listed perils that are 
covered by the policy. One of them is malicious persons and acts of vandalism. The police 
originally issued the closure order  due to anti-social behaviour  from the tenants. I therefore  
think this fits the insured  peril of malicious persons. The closure  order was a direct 
consequence of this insured peril. As it wouldnt have  been issued without the peril.  
I therefore think the reason Mr M has not received  rent payments that he would have done, 
is because of an insured peril. I dont think its fair to say that as the closure order  isnt an 
insured peril this wouldnt be covered, as it is the direct result of one. Therefore  as the loss 
of rent was a consequential loss, resulting from an insured peril, I dont agree that Lloyds 
were fair to decline the claim  for loss of rent. I therefore require Lloyds to pay Mr M loss of 
rent for the duration of the closure  order. I also require Lloyds to pay 8% simple interest on 
this amount, from when  it would have been  received to the date the claim is settled, to make  
up for the period of time Mr M has been  without  the money.
Ref: DRN77129823Shutters
The policy states  cover  is provided as follows:
Debris removal and associated costs (including the removal of tenants  debris)
1. The company will pay costs involved in:
a) Securing, shoring up, boarding up, weatherproofing or propping buildings to
make them safe'
So reasonable costs are covered in order to make a building safe.  
After the removal of the tenants, the downstairs  windows were broken. Which is why the 
police put the shutters  in place. However Lloyds say that after the closure order expired, 
Mr M should have taken further steps to fix the problem rather  than just leaving the 
preventative measures in place.  I have considered whether this is fair and reasonable.
Mr M has explained that he kept the shutters in place as he had serious concerns about the 
security of the property.  And when he attended the property he found  that there appeared to 
be an attempted break in as the shutters  had been  pulled back and the window broken. So I 
think his concerns about security were legitimate.
Further he intended  to sell the property at auction,  without making any repairs  or 
improvements. He has explained he did this in order to get a quick  sale, in the knowledge  
that the state of repair of the property would affect  the value. So I think the additional cost of 
the shutter  rental  is reasonable. As it was clearly a necessary  preventative measure to stop 
further damage over a short  period  of time.
Once Mr M had regained  possession of the property, he took quick  action to get the property  
auctioned. This was only delayed  due to the need  to clear the property. Therefore he limited  
the rental period for the shutters to as short a period as possible,  which  would have reduced 
the cost of the rental needed.  I think this is reasonable. 
Further I dont think its reasonable for Lloyds to insist repairs are looked into when Mr M 
only intended to retain the property for a short period of time.
For these reasons I dont  agree its fair that Lloyds  has declined  the cost of the rental of the 
shutters, as it was a reasonable expense to make  the building safe. I therefore require 
Lloyds to pay for the cost to Mr M of rental  of the shutters. I also require Lloyds to pay 8% 
simple interest, from the date the fee was paid until the date the claim is settled, to make  up 
for the period of time Mr M has been without  the money.
Putting things  right
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience that Lloyds has caused  Mr M. It took 
a long time to confirm  the declinature of the claim,  and when it did, it sent the letter  to the 
rental property address.  I agree  this was poor service  and it would have been inconvenient  
for Mr M to have  to repeatedly chase  the claim. However Lloyds has already awarded £500 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused during this claim and I think this is 
a fair amount.  So I wont ask it to pay anything further in compensation.
Ref: DRN77129824my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Society  of Lloyds to:
Pay Mr M loss of rent for the period the property was subject to a closure order.
Reimburse Mr M for the cost of the rental fee for the shutters.
Pay 8% simple interest on both of the above, from the date the costs  were incurred, until 
the date the claim is paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7712982