K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc has charged him unfair overdraft charges and 
interest.
background
Mr N says he stopped  using his Santander account  and there was a balance of about £3 left 
in it. He says in December 2018  he mistakenly paid a restaurant bill, using  his Santander 
account card. Mr N says that meant his account became overdrawn even though he doesnt 
have an overdraft facility  or agreed to have one. He says he contacted Santander in 
March 2019 but it didnt  raise a complaint and has charged him £96.63.
Santander says Mr N used his account  card in December 2018 but didnt raise the issue  with 
it until March 2019. It accepts it should  have  raised a complaint straight away  and has 
apologised to Mr N and paid him £25 compensation. Santander says it did raise  a complaint 
some days  later and agreed  as a gesture of goodwill to refund £50 in charges and stop a 
further £48 of charges. It says it acted in line with the account  terms and conditions  by 
allowing the transaction and then treating Mr Ns account as being  in an unarranged 
overdraft and charging the fees and interest. Santander says it sent Mr N regular  account  
statements and that he last used the account  in November 2018 before the mistake.
Mr N brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  Santander had acted fairly and 
in line with the account terms  and conditions. The investigator also thought  the charges were  
correctly applied and that Santander had acted fairly by refunding  some of them.  The 
investigator thought  the compensation payment was fair and reasonable and that Mr N had 
been sent regular account statements and ought  to have  noticed the account being 
overdrawn.
Mr N doesnt accept  that view and disputes that Santander sent the statements when he 
stopped banking with it at the end of 2018. He says he was caused trauma by what  
happened and that the £25 compensation doesnt go far enough. He would like further  
compensation and the balance written off.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr N will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account which Im satisfied he agreed to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied those terms and conditions  make clear that 
in these sorts of situations, where there isnt enough  money  in an account, that Santander 
will authorise the payment. And will treat the account as being in an unauthorised overdraft 
which would then result  in charges and interest.  So I dont think Santander  made a mistake  
by allowing the transaction  to be made in December 2018  and I dont think it could 
reasonably have known that Mr N had made  a mistake. I also dont think  it then made a 
mistake by making the charges  it did, and Ive not seen  any evidence  that those charges 
have been miscalculated.
I think that it was Mr Ns responsibility to monitor the account and I can see that Santander 
sent Mr N regular account statements which he could  also have accessed on line. I 
Ref: DRN74419412appreciate that Mr N says he didnt  receive  those statements  but having looked  at 
Santanders records Im satisfied they were sent to him. I also appreciate  that Mr N says he 
stopped banking with Santander at the end of 2018 and thats  why it may not have sent the 
statements. But Im satisfied Mr N used the account in November 2018 and there was still a 
balance in the account when he made  the mistake in December 2018.  So I dont think  the 
banking relationship had ended.
There is no question here that Santander  should have raised a complaint when Mr N called it 
in March 2019. But Im satisfied  Santander has apologised  for its mistake and did raise  a 
complaint some days later. I also think its paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation, which I think fairly, reflects the level of its mistake, the fact that Mr N didnt 
suffer financially  as a result and the impact  the mistake would have  had upon  him. I 
appreciate that Mr N says hes been caused  trauma as a result of whats  happened.  But I 
cant fairly ask Santander to increase  its compensation offer.
Im satisfied that Santander has tried to assist Mr N by refunding  some  of the charges and 
cancelling others.  Im also satisfied Mr N owes Santander the overdrawn balance and I hope  
he can reach an agreement to repay that money as that amount may increase  and affect his 
credit rating.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7441941