K820x#14complaint
Ms I says Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms I bought  the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the loan 
and PPI policy in a branch of the bank. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £106.10  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 12-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £91.02 with the PPI costing an additional £9.66 making the total 
monthly repayment £100.68.  
The policy provided  life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Ms I, subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered a monthly benefit of the monthly loan repayment for up 
to the remaining term in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event 
of unemployment  (which in Ms Is case was the term of the loan).
At the time,  Ms I said she was employed  as a company director (although  as she was a 
director of a limited company, I think she wouldve been considered as self-employed and I 
have looked at the complaint on this basis). She told us she wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay from the company  of between three- and six-months salary but had no savings she 
couldve relied on. Ms I also mentioned having  had health problems prior to the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2003.
Ms Is representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  Ms 
Is representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Ms I wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Is representative 
believes there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Ms I about the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN70159062The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms I and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint and both parties  have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms I disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Is. I dont intend to set that approach 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Is complaint
This sale took place  in.2002, so before the sale of general insurance products  like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN70159063The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Is case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Is complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Ms I with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Ms I sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms I, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms I suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms I and Lloyds, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Is complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN70159064did Ms I know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. It sent in a copy of the loan 
agreement, and I can see that the PPI its clearly  stated  as being optional.  There  are yes 
and no boxes on the form to indicate whether  PPI was required, and although the cross in 
the yes box is pre-printed,  the remainder  of the content of the agreement (other  than the 
signatures) is also pre-printed, so I think it reasonable to take it that the agreement  was 
printed after discussion  between Ms I and the Lloyds adviser. So taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Ms I knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take 
it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ms I said she wasnt advised to take the PPI. Lloyds  disagreed  and said it did provide 
advice. I think its most  likely that this was the case  so this means  Lloyds had to advise Ms 
I with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable 
given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms I. It seems Ms I cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Ms 
Is financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Ms I would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Ms I had any pre-existing  medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Ms I given  her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms I, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms I met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Ms I had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Ms Is ability to continue to meet  
her loan repayments would have been  put under strain if she was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the sick pay she says she would  have 
been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms I.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms I. There was 
nothing about  Ms Is employment  or occupation  which would have made it difficult for 
her to claim   although Ms I was self-employed when the PPI was taken out, it 
wouldnt have been any harder  for her to make a claim if she became unemployed 
than someone who was permanently employed.  Regarding pre-existing medical 
Ref: DRN70159065conditions, Ms I told us about  two issues prior to the sale  a hysterectomy in 1992 
and whiplash in 1995. But these were both some years before the sale of the PPI, 
and Ms I didnt mention  having had any ongoing problems. So I dont  think  shed 
have considered it likely that shed have  needed to claim  on the policy  for either of 
these issues. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  health  or 
back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Ms I cancelled  the policy 
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest that (at the 
time) Ms I had plans to repay the loan early.  The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Ms I sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms I was given  a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Ms I would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Ms I knew that the single premium  being added to 
the loan was £106.10 and the monthly cost was £9.66 (as this information was, in my view,  
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Ms I signed).
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policy over the term of the 
loan, including  interest - or about  the exclusions or limitations before Ms I agreed to take out 
the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms I, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Ms I. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Ms I all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Is representative has raised a number  of 
general points  regarding the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Ms Is. Ive considered  these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Is representative considers  to be poor 
Ref: DRN70159066value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms I about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Is representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms I has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Ms I? To what extent did Ms I suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms I. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms I suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms I would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Ms I, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms I has suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Ms I 
would have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Ms I says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms I had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Is circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her.
Ref: DRN70159067Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms I knew she was borrowing the money  to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost £9.66 a month, it doesnt appear  Lloyds told her the 
total cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest. 
Having said that, given the loan was relatively small  and interest  would only accrue  over 12 
months, and the interest would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Ms I 
realised, I dont think it likely the missing  cost information would have affected Ms Is 
decision to buy the policy in her circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms I would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Ms I would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Is expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms I thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
that that Ms I knew about or should  reasonably have known about before the start 
date of the policy, or any such condition that Ms I had received treatment  or advice 
for in the 12 months before the start date and which recurred  during  the 12 months 
after the start date;
The policy also excluded claims for any chronic  or continuing  disease  Ms I had on 
the start date;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Ms I repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Ms I to have done so; 
and
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Ms I be unable  to do 
the job she had immediately beforehand, or any other job she could do bearing in 
mind her knowledge and training.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have given 
Ms I pause  for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms I from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Ms Is circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I explained  above why I thought Ms I would not have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions  I have no reason to think  Ms Is health  
issues had caused  any ongoing problems, and her employment status did not make  it any 
more difficult for her to claim  for unemployment.  Ms I also didnt likely need, and theres no 
evidence to suggest she intended,  to repay  the loan early. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN70159068The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms I would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms I had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both the job she 
had immediately beforehand, or any other job she could do bearing in mind her knowledge 
and training, it might have  played  into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although given Ms Is circumstances and 
the limited other means she had to make her repayments if she wasnt working, on balance,  
I still think she would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms I would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Ms I made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms I 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Is representative says the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms I would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Is 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms I 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms I believes the presumption may only be rebutted when  the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms I in the position she would have been in if she had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN70159069That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances to conclude Lloyds should pay Ms I compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Is representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms I in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 June  2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7015906