K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as The Leeds) mis-sold Ms G payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Ms Gs comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Ms G has given  us a copy of a letter she was sent when she was setting up the 
mortgage. This showed that it was a condition of the mortgage that she take PPI. This 
doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-sold.  It would  have been a mis-sale if Bank of 
Scotland had pretended the PPI was compulsory  when  it wasnt. But instead it made 
clear the PPI was a condition, and Ms G was able either to accept  the whole deal, or 
reject it and seek an alternative mortgage  without  PPI. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Ms G, although  I think  it may just have  
recommended the overall mortgage  deal.  But even  if it did recommend PPI specifically, it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the 
time. Being unable  to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would 
have paid benefits at the same time as Ms G received any employer sick pay, and it 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when she would  need  to fall back on any savings or other means  
she had for paying the mortgage. This all would have put Ms G in a more  secure  
position, if she eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or unemployment. And 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it out. 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Ms G took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Ms G would  have been affected by any of these. 
Ref: DRN70311842my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7031184