K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains he was mis-sold an investment  policy by The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited  because he didnt receive  the return he was told hed get at retirement. He 
complains about  the suitability  and is also unhappy with the performance of the policy.  
Background
In 1971, Mr R took out a whole of life policy  with Prudential with a sum assured of £6,000. 
The policy was invested in the with profits  fund.  In December 1996, the policy  was converted  
to an endowment policy. The fund and sum assured remained the same  but the term was 
changed to 20 years, so that it matured  in 2017 and the premium  increased to around  £45 
per month. 
A fact find was completed around the time the policy was converted  to an endowment.  This 
recorded that Mr R was aged  39, married with three  dependents. He had some  savings  in 
cash and some life policies. He had a preference for low risk arrangements. It says he had a 
need for savings  towards producing a lump sum when he reached age 60. To meet this 
need, it was recommended he convert  his Prudential whole of life policy  to an endowment.  
Mr R says he was told he would receive  a value of £120,000 to £125,000 when the policy 
matured. The policy matured in December 2017.  The maturity value paid to Mr R was 
around £39,500. 
Mr R raised a complaint  as the amount he received was much less than he was assured  he 
would receive. He was particularly  unhappy with how little the policy had increased  over the 
later years. 
Prudential didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint. It said the sum assured of the policy was the only 
amount guaranteed. It explained how bonuses were added to the policy   both annual and 
terminal bonuses.  It also provided Mr R with a breakdown of the bonuses added  to his policy  
each year. It explained  that the very low interest  rates in UK over a number  of years had 
meant investment  returns had also been very low. It also said the estimated values quoted to 
Mr R were based on assumed rates of investment  return over the full term. And, in order  for 
the estimated  value  to be met, the with-profits fund had to grow at the sustained growth rates  
quoted but unfortunately,  this wasnt the case over the full term of Mr Rs policy.
As Mr R was unhappy with the explanation he received from Prudential, he referred  his 
complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked into the complaint - he didnt 
uphold it. In summary, he said he thought the recommendation to convert the policy  to an 
endowment was suitable. He also didnt find that Prudential had given  Mr R a guaranteed  
pay out or had administered  the policy incorrectly  including  how it added bonuses  to the 
policy.  
Mr R remained  unhappy with the outcome of his complaint.  He said Prudential  had provided 
information about the growth of the with profits fund over a number  of years and this didnt 
reflect the information it has given about the growth  of his policy. He also provided quotes 
from 1991 when  he was considering changing  the policy. He said the figures in this 
document support the level of returns that were  described by Prudential  salesmen in 1996. It 
was based on these promises that led him to eventually converting the policy.  As no 
agreement could be reached,  the complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
Ref: DRN79015812My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully read all of the information  Mr R and Prudential have sent us. Its clear  Mr R is 
disappointed with the returns hes received on his investment and I do appreciate  this. Hes 
asked some far-reaching questions about the investment performance and the growth  of the 
with profits  fund. As an ombudsman at an informal dispute resolution service, my role here is 
to reach  a fair and reasonable conclusion about how this complaint should be resolved 
rather than cover the full scope of Mr Rs questions.  
The first thing Ive considered is the suitability of the policy  when it was converted  to an 
endowment policy in late 1996.  Ive looked at Mr Rs circumstances and needs at the time. 
As explained above, the fact find completed records that Mr R had a need for savings 
towards producing  a lump sum when he reached age 60 and he had a preference for low 
risk arrangements.
Im satisfied the conversion  of his policy to an endowment  met those  needs.  The term was 
set in line with his retirement  age and would provide a lump sum at maturity or earlier in the 
unfortunate event  of death. The policy remained invested in a with profits fund.  The level of 
risk presented by the new policy is in line with what I know  of his circumstances  and the 
information recorded about his attitude  to risk in the fact find. So based  on this I think the 
recommendation to convert was suitable.    
Mr R feels strongly  that he was provided  with assurances about  how well the policy  would 
perform and the size of the lump sum he would receive at maturity.  I appreciate  the adviser 
is likely  to have spoken about the policy in very positive terms. But, that isnt the same as 
giving a binding  guarantee.  Mr Rs was only guaranteed  to receive the basic  sum assured, in 
this case £6,000, plus the annual bonuses that had been added  to the policy at the time of 
conversion with anything more dependent on non-guaranteed bonuses. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr R was given a binding  guarantee.
Prudential havent  been able to provide  copies  of the illustration that would have been given 
to Mr R when he was advised to convert the policy. But Mr R has provided copies of 
illustrations from a few years before (dated from 1991) the policy  was converted. He was 
considering converting  the policy at this time but chose not to at this time.  He believes that 
these illustrations support  that he was given assurances about the likely pay out from the 
policy if he converted. 
Ive reviewed these illustrations. They  do illustrate different terms to the one that Mr R 
eventually chose but they provide an indication of the type of information he would have 
likely seen in 1996. They present potential  growth  for policy  at two different rates  (7% and 
10.5%), with the higher rate growth  showing over £100,000 projected at maturity.  But there 
is also a warning that the figures dont represent the upper or lower amounts of what the 
policy might  produce and the final value will be dependent on the future bonuses added  to 
the policy. So I dont  think this supports that a binding guarantee was given to Mr R about  
the maturity value. As mentioned above, I do appreciate the advisor may have spoken in 
positive terms about the potential maturity  value but this doesnt amount to a binding 
guarantee. 
Ref: DRN79015813I think it would be useful  to explain how the addition of bonuses  affect  the maturity value of 
this type of policy. As Mr R is aware,  his policy can attract  two types of bonus - annual 
bonuses and a terminal bonus. His policy benefitted from the addition  of relatively high 
annual bonuses in the early years. Once  annual bonuses are added they are guaranteed  but 
the terminal bonus isnt guaranteed until its paid.  Each year Prudential will take into account 
such issues as the bonuses already declared, any benefits that have to be paid under 
policies, previous investment returns and what returns may be possible in future  before 
deciding the level of bonus  to be applied. Unfortunately for Mr R the returns  for such policies 
have been much lower  than when he first took out his policy  and comparatively less since he 
converted the policy. This has led to a reduction in the annual bonuses  applied and the 
terminal bonus rates. Future bonuses levels were never guaranteed and there was no 
absolute requirement  to pay any level of bonus. 
Ive reviewed the points  Mr R has made about the literature  he was sent about the 
performance of the with profits fund. Mr R has questioned  why the information provided 
about the fund performance isnt in line with the growth in value  of his policy. The fact that 
there may have been a positive return on the with profits fund in a particular period doesnt 
mean there will be a bonus  paid or an equal uplift in bonus. This is because there are many 
factors to consider, not only investment  returns. Bonuses are indirectly linked  to the 
performance of with profits assets  but it is also as much a matter of judgement as to what is 
the right share to apportion  to each policy bearing  in mind Prudential  is taking into account  a 
variety of factors to make  sure that existing bonuses and other benefits can be supported in 
the future.  It is by no means certain what returns will be. This can be a difficult  balance. So, 
the bonuses can be very different in comparison with some  earlier  level,  regardless of the 
intervening with profits fund performance. 
Prudential does have  a wide discretion in terms of the bonus rates  it applies.  I dont think the 
lack of bonuses  it has applied to the policy is unfair  or incorrect.  Similarly (for the reasons 
described above),  I dont  agree that where  bonuses rates applied are lower  than the annual  
growth of the fund means something  must  be wrong. I do appreciate why Mr R has raised  
these concerns and it is very unfortunate that bonuses have fallen so much  compared to the 
early years. But all of this isnt in itself evidence of mismanagement or Prudential necessarily 
acting incorrectly. 
In conclusion, I do appreciate that Mr R is disappointed  with the overall  performance  of his 
policy but for the reasons  explained, I dont think this is because it was mis-sold or that the 
investment has been mismanaged  by Prudential. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019..
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7901581