K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that BUPA Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in refusing to 
fund treatment under a private health insurance  policy. He wants  matters put right.
background
Mr A had a private health insurance  policy with BUPA. His consultant,  paid for by BUPA,  
recommended Mr A had a treatment known as aquablation, but BUPA  refused to fund this. It 
said that the treatment  was experimental and there wasnt  sufficient evidence of its 
effectiveness.
Mr A complained to BUPA,  and pointed out that the treatment hed ben recommended  was 
approved by NICE. BUPA said under  the terms and conditions of the policy, it could refuse 
to cover experimental treatments. It said that the medical directors  had carefully considered  
the issue and had noted that NICE had said the evidence of the efficacy of aquablation was 
limited and that its use was only approved for audit, research or by special arrangement. 
BUPA didnt  accept  it had been slow in responding and said it was reasonable to require 
written evidence to allow  its medically  qualified staff to review  the matters. It was willing to 
pay for Mr A to see his consultant again  to discuss other options or to get a second opinion.
Mr A complained to us, after sending BUPA more information about  the treatment and it 
continuing to refuse  to fund the procedure.  The investigators view was that BUPA had acted 
fairly and reasonably in refusing to fund aquablation.  The policy said that BUPA wouldnt 
fund treatment which in BUPAs reasonable opinion was unproven  or experimental,  and 
defined eligible treatment  as those in routine practice. The investigator  said that the 
evidence shows aquablation wasnt  routine and NICE had only permitted its use in limited 
circumstances due to uncertainty  about the procedures safety and efficacy.  And she noted 
that BUPA was willing to consider funding standard treatment options.
Mr A disagreed. He said his consultant  didnt  think that the treatment was experimental  and 
BUPAs definition of the phrase was undefined. Mr A felt it was unfair that a related insurer  
had apparently funded  the treatment,  but BUPA wouldnt. He also highlighted relevant parts 
of the NICE guidelines, which explained  why he personally was keen to have the procedure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The relevant rules  and industry  guidelines 
say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably.
Insurers are able to limit the cover of an insurance policy through  the use of exclusions and 
definitions of what is eligible treatment,  provided  that they are set out clearly  to a 
policyholder within the policy. Im satisfied that BUPA  did clearly set out what  is eligible 
treatment and the exclusion about experimental  treatment. The description of eligible 
treatment as routine  is accurate in my view, though its important  to note that it must  also be 
clinically appropriate and demonstrated through scientific evidence.
The policy says:
Ref: DRN72434282We do not pay for treatment or procedures  which, in our reasonable opinion,
are experimental or unproved based on established medical practice in the United
Kingdom, such as drugs  outside the terms of their licence or procedures which
have not been satisfactorily  reviewed by NICE (National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence).
The key point is what BUPA reasonably thinks is unproven or experimental treatment is 
excluded. NICE hasnt satisfactory reviewed aquablation  it has limited  its use to research, 
audit and specialist  arrangements.  This is due to lack of sufficient evidence  about its efficacy 
primarily. And I note that Mr As own consultant told Mr As GP that aquablation  was a very 
new procedure and gave similar information  to BUPA. The evidence available to BUPA 
reasonably supports a view that this treatment  is experimental  and hasnt yet been fully 
demonstrated through scientific evidence. I dont think  it was unfair or unreasonable for 
BUPA to refuse to fund it.
I also note that theres no evidence  the standard treatment options are unsuitable for Mr A, 
though I understand the reason why he prefers aquablation. BUPA is willing  to fund standard 
treatment options,  which is fair and reasonable. But given the terms of the exclusion and the 
availability of other options,  I dont think  its fair or reasonable to require it to even partially  
contribute to the costs of aquablation.
Mr A mentioned that other  businesses  related  to BUPA have apparently funded  aquablation.  
But each insurer is entitled to apply their own policies and BUPA has explained each case is 
considered individually. I accept that position as fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
2 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7243428