K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Mrs A complain  about the decision by Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. to turn down their travel insurance claim. 
background
On 18 August 2018, Mr P and Mrs A took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Mapfre  
to cover their upcoming trip. 
On 21 August 2018, Mrs A needed hospital treatment for symptoms she was experiencing. 
She was advised  not to travel, and so she and Mr P cancelled their trip and submitted a 
cancellation claim to Mapfre. 
Mapfre turned down the claim. It said Mrs A had an undiagnosed pre-existing condition that 
she hadnt told them about when taking out the policy. Unhappy with Mapfres decision, Mr P 
and Mrs A brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought Mrs A had failed to 
answer a medical  question correctly when taking out the policy. However, as Mapfre  
wouldnt tell us what it would have done  if Mrs A had answered the question correctly,  she 
recommended Mapfre  pay the claim, plus interest. 
Mapfre didnt accept  our investigators recommendations, so the matter has been referred to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When Mr P and Mrs A took out the policy, Mapfre asked them medical  questions  before 
deciding whether to accept  them  for cover. Because of this, the investigator thought Mapfre  
should have considered the case in accordance with the principles set out under the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which concerns 
misrepresentation. 
Mapfre disagrees. It says insurance  policies  are intended to cover unexpected or unforeseen 
circumstances. It doesnt  think  the cancellation of Mr P and Mrs As holiday was unforeseen, 
as Mrs A was suffering with symptoms prior to purchasing  the policy. Mapfre says it isnt 
declining the claim under CIDRA. Instead  it has relied on an exclusion within  the policy 
which says:
It is a condition of this policy that you will not be covered under Section A  Cancellation or 
curtailmentfor any claims arising  directly  or indirectly from:
1)At the time of taking  out this policy:
...
c)Any medical condition  you are aware of but for which you have  not had a 
diagnosis
Ref: DRN70433442When an insurer asks medical  questions at the point of sale,  it does so in order  to assess  
the risk presented  to it. Based on the answers  given, it will decide whether  to offer the 
applicant cover (and if so, on what terms).  
I dont think its fair for an insurer to ask medical questions  in order  to assess a risk at the 
point of sale, only to then seek to rely on an existing medical condition  exclusion (such as 
the above) in order to turn down the claim. 
I therefore agree with our investigator  that Mapfre should have dealt with the claim in 
accordance with the principles set out in CIDRA. This Act explains there  is a duty on a 
consumer to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to an insurer, and if a 
qualifying misrepresentation is made, it sets out the remedies that are available  to the 
insurer. 
The first thing for me to consider is how clear was the question asked by Mapfre.  
When taking out the policy,  Mr P and Mrs A were  asked:
Within the last 2 years, have you or anyone  to be named on the policy:
been prescribed medication or received  treatment  or attended a medical practitioners 
surgery?
Mrs A answered no to this question. 
Im satisfied this question was clear.  
Mrs A visited  her GP on 16 August 2018 as she was experiencing some  pain. Her GP 
prescribed her some ointment. Her pain then intensified and she went  back to her GP on 21 
August 2018,  who arranged  for her to be seen by a specialist in hospital later that day. It was 
at this point that she was advised not to travel. 
Given that Mrs A had attended  her GP surgery and been prescribed medication two days 
before taking out the policy, I think she should have answered yes to the above question. 
Im therefore  satisfied Mr P and Mrs A didnt take reasonable care when taking out the policy  
and so there was misrepresentation.  
However, in order for Mapfre  to have a remedy against Mr P and Mrs A, CIDRA explains it 
needs to first of all show that the misrepresentation was qualifying.  In other words, Mapfre 
needs to show  that without  the misrepresentation, it wouldnt have  entered into the contract 
at all, or would have  done so only on different terms. 
Weve asked Mapfre what it would  have done  if Mrs A had told it about her GP visit on 16 
August 2018.  Mapfre didnt provide  us with any information relating to this. 
Consequently, that means  Mapfre hasnt shown that the misrepresentation was qualifying. It 
therefore has no remedy against Mr P and Mrs A, and so should pay the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay the claim under the remaining policy 
Ref: DRN70433443terms and conditions. Interest should  be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement. 
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr P and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P 
and Mrs A a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7043344