K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  hasnt sent him any credit card statements 
for several  years.
background
Mr M says hes repeatedly told Nationwide that its not sending  him his card statements. This 
is causing him to miss payments  and has affected  his credit record.  He said Nationwide 
used to ring him when  he was due to make  a payment but its stopped doing that. Hes also 
worried he cant check his transactions.
Nationwide said it hadnt done anything wrong.  It said it issued monthly statements to Mr Ms 
address which  showed  the date payment was due, the amount of the minimum payment and 
any charges. It said it offered to set up a direct debit for Mr M but he didnt want this. And he 
was registered  for mobile and online banking. It also said he could phone  it at the end of 
each month  to check the amount and date of his next payment. It said itd refunded one late 
payment fee as a gesture of goodwill. But as it applied all its charges correctly it couldnt do 
anything more.
Our investigator didnt  think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong. He could see itd sent the 
monthly credit card statements to the correct address so he couldnt see any reason why Mr 
M didnt get them. He thought Nationwide had tried to make alternative  suggestions  to make 
sure he made his payments on time which he thought was fair.
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He said he couldnt  use online banking  and although he would 
like to set up a direct debit he wanted to know what transactions  were on his statement that 
month so he could make sure they were  genuine. He was particularly concerned  about  the 
impact on his credit record. And he said Nationwide  had promised not to let this problem 
impact on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
I cant see any reason why Mr M isnt receiving  his statements. They are being sent out 
correctly by Nationwide so I cant find that its doing  anything wrong. 
Its obliged to send  accurate  information to update Mr Ms credit  record.  And Nationwide  
doesnt have any record to show it promised him it wouldnt send this information.  Because  it 
isnt at fault for Mr Ms non receipt  of statements, I cant  fairly ask it to amend  his credit 
record. 
As our investigator noted Mr M isnt comfortable with using online banking  or setting up a 
direct debit. But its his responsibility to make his payments on time. So it would appear that 
his only option,  even though its inconvenient, is to contact Nationwide each month to check  
his statement.
Ref: DRN78610502I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision  but for the reasons  Ive given Im not 
going to uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861050