K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the service  provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation 
to a central heating insurance policy.
background
Mrs Ss husband held several policies with British Gas for properties  they rented out, but 
which they were both beneficiaries of, until he passed away in February  2018.  Mrs S tried to 
have the policies transferred to her name and to be able to manage the policies online. 
However, she encountered a number of difficulties, as a result of which  Mrs S has raised two 
complaints with British  Gas, one in April 2018 and one in October 2018. 
The first complaint was that she was still receiving documentation and cheques in her 
husbands name, which was causing  her distress. She has been unable to set up an online 
account in her own name to manage the policies online, as her husband had set up an 
online account and British Gas said it could not remove his details. In addition,  a previous 
owner of one of the properties  appears  on one of the online accounts periodically.  Mrs S 
also said that the gas cooking  hob in one property wasnt recorded on the policy certificate 
properly and this was a requirement as it was a property that was let out; and that there was 
also an error on another policy  which showed  there were  two boilers, when in fact there was 
only one but it had been replaced. 
In addition, British  Gas had offered free upgrades to a more  expensive policy part way 
through the policy year 217/2018. Unknown to Mrs S and her husband,  she says this was a 
ploy to then renew automatically  the more expensive policy cover at the next renewal date.
This is the complaint that was originally bought to us. British  Gas acknowledged there were 
some delays in dealing with Mrs S and offered £30 compensation. 
The October 2018 complaint, brought to us after we started looking into the first complaint,  
was that British Gas had failed to send out renewal details on two policies, despite requests.. 
As a result, Mrs S was forced to continue  paying for one policy for at least  six months  as it 
wouldnt cancel it. British  Gas accepted  that it had not sent out the renewal documents  and 
blamed system faults.
This is only a summary of the many  issues Mrs S has said she has experienced, with 
repeated delays and errors since 2018.  Mrs S says she has now finally cancelled all her 
British Gas policies.
British Gas has accepted most of these issues. However, it objected to us looking into the 
second complaint  on the basis that it said it was a separate and distinct matter. Our 
investigator thought  it would  be pragmatic  to look at all the issues together  but agreed that 
British Gas was entitled  to look into the second complaint and respond to it, before we 
considered it. Having considered it, British Gas offered Mrs S £200 compensation for this 
complaint in a final response letter of 6 November 2018. Having issued its final response  on 
this matter, we were entitled  to consider these additional issues together with the original  
complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that British Gas pay a 
further £200 compensation. British Gas said it had already paid £200 compensation to Mrs S 
Ref: DRN79492052and so does not this is it reasonable to pay anything further.  It says that this was in relation  
to both complaints.  
The investigator also explained that we couldnt  make any award in relation to a refund 
cheque sent in Mrs Ss husbands name  after British Gas was aware he had died.  It has still 
not apparently  re-issued  this cheque in her name,  However as this was in relation to a 
payment for a gas safety  check, which is not part of the insurance cover,  it is outside  of our 
jurisdiction.  
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only set out some of the main issue  hat Mrs S has raised as British Gas has accepted 
these .. I o not need to establish exactly what happened and why suffice to say I am satisfied 
that Mrs S suffered considerable distress and inconvenience due to a series of 
administrative errors on British Gass part, t what was a very distressing  time for her. 
British Gass offer of £200 in November  2018  was clearly in relation to the second complaint: 
This gesture of goodwill is as an apology for the inconvenience and significant distress  
caused by our systems  faults where  we did not send renewal information to you and for 
faults with cancelling the agreements. Furthermore,  it is as an apology  for the poor 
communication you received from us about  the policies and as you should not have had to
chase us so many times during  the year for a resolution. I accept that we unnecessarily 
inconvenienced you during a difficult time.
I believe that the ombudsman are still reviewing the majority of the concerns that you 
advised them about. I would like to offer my own sincere apologies for the stress this matter  
has caused.
British Gas has since tried to suggest  that this payment was for all aspects  of Mrs Ss 
complaint, i.e. the issues raised in both complaints.  That was clearly not the case. However,  
even if I accepted that this was its intention, I do not agree that this is sufficient to 
compensate Mrs S for the considerable trouble caused to her over many month as set out in 
both complaints, including the problems with dealing with the accounts herself. I agree with 
the investigator that additional compensation is appropriate. She recommended  a further 
payment of £200.  I consider that British Gas should  pay a further £250 for this complaint - for 
the avoidance of doubt this is in addition to the £200  it has paid already, making a total of 
£450 compensation. 
While I cant make any formal finding or award regarding the refund cheque  issued in       
Mrs Ss husbands name, I would  expect British Gas to act reasonably  and re-issue any 
cheque that she has been unable to present  and which is owed to her husbands estate. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S £450  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of her policies  (this 
Ref: DRN79492053is including the £200 it has already paid, so it now needs to make  a further payment of 
£250).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020
Harriet McCarthy
ombusdman
Ref: DRN7949205