K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mrs K bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint, and Ill explain why.
Mrs K said she was not told about  the PPI and nothing was explained to her. FICL say it 
would have made it clear  to Mrs K that she didnt have to buy PPI and that it would have got 
her consent  before it added the cover  to her account. Where theres a dispute  about what 
happened, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  
taking into account  all the evidence thats  available.
FICL has given us a copy of the application  form that was completed for Mrs Ks store card.  
There is a section titled Protecting your Account in the section it says only sign this box if 
you require Account Cover - Mrs K has signed in the box, so I think  this reflected what  she 
wanted. And I can see other equally prominent products have not been selected. If she didnt 
want the PPI she could have left the box blank or questioned this at the time. So I think  FICL  
made Mrs K aware she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and she chose to take it. 
Mrs K has also said she was pushed into taking out this policy. Ive considered this 
alongside what FICL says happened during  this sale and what  I know generally about  how 
FICL sold policies around this time.  But pressure is a subjective area and what one person  
thinks is pressure another  may not. So without  stronger evidence  of this I cant safely uphold  
on this basis. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs K  so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But FICL did have  to give Mrs K enough  information to allow her to decide  for herself 
whether or not to take the PPI.
Its possible  the information  FICL gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
based on what shes told us about  her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
Ref: DRN77491352affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover   for example, she was in full 
time employment  and shes said she didnt suffer with any pre-existing medical conditions. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont think  better information about  
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ks comments,  including what  shes said about sick pay from her 
employer if shed been too ill to work.  This policy wouldve helped  cover her payments if 
shed lost her job or been too ill to work  until the full balance was repaid, or until she returned 
to work  and this would  have been in addition to any sick pay she mightve got and 
potentially for longer  than her sick pay would have  lasted. 
So overall, although the information provided  by FICL couldve been clearer,  based on what  I 
know about Mrs Ks circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  useful to her and I 
dont think that more, or better, information wouldve made her act differently and not buy the 
policy. So I dont think Mrs K lost out as a result of anything FICL mightve done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7749135