K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc hasnt paid enough compensation for a collar sold in 
2007. Mr L is represented by a limited  company, which I will call J.
J is also representing Mr L in a complaint he makes on behalf  of a company,  but this 
decision is solely about Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I have issued a separate decision on the 
companys complaint. I hope Mr L and J will understand why Ive expressed my two 
decisions in very similar  terms.
background 
In 2007, Mr L ran a business in partnership with his then wife, Mrs L. They borrowed money 
from HSBC, and took out a collar to support that borrowing. The loan and the collar were 
both in their joint names.
 
In 2011, the collar was terminated  early.  HSBC lent Mr and Mrs L additional money to fund 
the break costs.
Mr and Mrs L have since divorced. They no longer trade as a partnership; Mr L operates the 
business as a sole trader.
In 2014, HSBC reviewed  the sale of the collar under the review  it had agreed with its 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. HSBC decided that if everything had happened 
as it should, Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have bought the collar. HSBC offered to refund all the 
payments made towards the collar, plus interest. It called  this refund basic redress.  
Mr and Mrs L accepted  the basic redress, but retained their right to make a claim for the 
additional, or consequential, losses they suffered as a result  of taking out the collar.  Mr L 
now brings that claim to our service. He also complains that HSBC  treated him unfairly 
during the review.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2019. Briefly,  I said:
I have no power  to investigate the way HSBC carried out its review into the sale of 
the collar. That means I cant  look at a complaint about whether HSBC  failed to make 
reasonable adjustments to enable  Mr L to participate fully in the review.
I was not persuaded that HSBCs mistakes in selling  the 2007  collar caused Mr L to 
be unable to purchase a property in 2012,  so I didnt  intend to award any 
compensation for that aborted purchase. 
Similarly, I didnt  think  HSBCs mistakes in selling the 2007 collar increased  the legal 
fees Mr and Mrs L had to pay when they got divorced.  So, I didnt intend to order  
HSBC to refund any of those  fees.
Whilst I accepted that Mr and Mrs L had incurred legal, accountancy  and business 
restructuring fees as a result of HSBCs  mistakes in selling the collar, I didnt think 
HSBC should  have to pay as much  for those  fees as Mr L claimed. Broadly, I thought  
Ref: DRN72072542that by the middle of January 2014  it was no longer reasonable for Mr L to be 
concerned that he was trading whilst insolvent   and so I didnt think HSBC should 
have to refund any restructuring fees Mr L incurred after 14 January 2014. 
I did not think it would be fair for me to order HSBC to refund any of the fees J 
charged for helping  Mr L to make his complaint. However, HSBC had already made 
an offer in respect of those fees, and I saw no reason to interfere with that offer.
In light of my comments about fees,  HSBC said it was no longer prepared  to pay quite as 
much as it had previously offered. I wrote to both parties in January 2020 to explain why I 
thought a fair outcome  to this complaint would be for HSBC to pay:
£350 towards legal fees;
£1,685 towards  accountancy fees;
£1,797 towards  Mr Ls representatives fees;
£149.99 for overdraft  interest; plus
Interest on the legal  and accountancy  fees,  at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the 
date those fees were  paid.
I noted that HSBC  was willing to pay £600  towards Mr and Mrs Ls bookkeeping costs, but I 
said I did not intend to order it to make  that payment.  I was not satisfied that HSBCs errors 
in respect of the collar had caused  Mr and Mrs L to incur the bookkeeping costs, so I simply 
said that it remained open to HSBC to make that payment if it wished to do so.
Both parties  made further comments  in response to my provisional findings.  
Mr L and J believe I have  not given enough weight to some  of their evidence,  and that I have 
misunderstood part of the remainder. In particular, J said:
Mr Ls disability, together with my refusal to meet him, means that he was unable to 
bring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service  without assistance. 
Mr L also required professional help because he had legitimate concerns that the 
collar would cause  him to trade whilst insolvent. Those concerns  continued  after 
January 2014,  and forced Mr L to seek help from J and from other  businesses.
As a result, HSBC should refund  the whole of Js fees.
HSBC said:
It remains satisfied that it carried out the review correctly, and that the offer it made  
following the review  was appropriate.  
It considers that I should apply a cutoff date of 14 January 2014 to Mr Ls 
accountancy fees as well as to restructuring fees.
In respect of accountancy fees, it is still prepared to offer Mr and Mrs L the amount  it 
offered in the review  that is, £575 towards  the fees charged by one firm of 
accountants, and £1,069 plus VAT towards the fees charged by a second  firm of 
accountants.
Ref: DRN72072543It is also prepared to pay an additional £2,000 plus VAT towards Js fees for 
assistance with the consequential  loss claim (that is, a total of £2,600 plus VAT). But 
it wants to make clear that this is in the interests  of resolving the complaint and 
should not be construed as the Bank  agreeing that the Partnership should have 
received additional compensation in relation  to this head of claim.
Whilst the bank  notes that I do not intend  to order anything towards the bookkeepers 
fees, it is still prepared  to pay £600  plus VAT for those costs.
My provisional decision did not refer to the £248 of bank charges offered in the 
review. The bank  believes that head of claim is not in dispute,  and should  be 
included.
Finally, the bank would like all of its offers to be referred to as part of the award in my 
decision, rather than being a standalone offer between the bank and Mr and Mrs L. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the parties  
responses to my provisional  decision and subsequent email, to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, I want to stress that I fully accept that HSBC  made serious mistakes in the sale of the 
collar. I havent said much  about  those mistakes  but that is because there is no dispute  
about them. HSBC  agrees that it should  not have sold the collar in the first place. 
Mr and Mrs L have already accepted the basic redress HSBC offered (that is, a refund of 
the payments  they made under the collar). So there is no need for me to make any findings 
on that issue.
I also want to confirm  that I have not considered any aspect of the way HSBC carried  out its 
review of the sale of the collar. As I explained  in my provisional decision, I have no power to 
review the review. That means  I cant make any findings about  whether HSBC made 
reasonable adjustments for Mr Ls disability when it carried out the review.  Similarly, I cant 
make any findings about  whether HSBC carried out the review properly when it decided how 
much to offer with respect to accountancy  fees.
My role here is to consider Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the consequential losses that 
Mr L says they have suffered. For this part of their complaint, I need to look at whether the 
banks failures in selling the collar actually caused these losses. And if they did, I also need 
to ask whether  its fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need  to ask 
whether the bank could reasonably foresee  that its failures would result in losses  like these. 
In other  words, Id need to be satisfied that the losses  werent  too remote from the banks 
failings.
I have carefully considered both parties responses to my provisional decision and follow up 
email. Having done so, I still consider that the outcome  I reached  in my follow  up email was 
fair. I know Mr L and his representative  will strongly disagree with me about that, and I give 
further explanation below.  I will concentrate on the issues of fees to Mr Ls accountant and to 
his representative,  on the grounds  that there is no longer a dispute about  the other issues.
Ref: DRN72072544However, it would  not be right for me to ignore HSBCs wish that I make an award that is 
higher than the award I suggested in my email.  Whilst  I remain  satisfied that the award  I 
suggested was fair, I have  increased  it at HSBCs request.
the representatives fees
The ombudsman offers a free and informal service  to resolve  disputes.  We decide whether a 
bank has treated its customer fairly by looking at the facts of the case   not at how well the 
complaint is presented. We dont usually require a bank  to pay a customers costs  for 
professional help in bringing their complaint here. But I do have the power to make such  an 
award if I consider  it appropriate.
In this particular  case, I am satisfied that everyone  involved has had a fair opportunity to tell 
me what they think about this complaint. I know that Mr L and his representative strongly 
disagree with me, and that the representative says Mr L could not have used our service 
without assistance.  But as I said in my provisional decision, I am not satisfied that Mr L was 
unable to bring his complaint to our service or to HSBC. I consider that neither he nor his 
representative engaged with our attempts to discuss alternatives  to a face-to-face  meeting, 
and they have not explained why the alternatives  we suggested would  not have been 
appropriate for him. I am therefore unable to conclude that it was necessary for Mr L to 
employ a representative.  
Having said that, HSBC has asked me to order it to pay the amount it has offered voluntarily. 
I see no disadvantage to Mr and Mrs L in my complying with its request. So, if Mr and Mrs L 
accept my final decision in time,  HSBC  will be required  to pay the amount I have ordered. If 
Mr and Mrs L do not accept my final decision in time  or if they decide to reject  my final 
decision  then my decision will not bind HSBC or Mr and Mrs L. 
accountancy fees
It isnt possible for me to say exactly how much of Mr and Mrs Ls accountancy fees have 
been caused by the sale of the collar. However,  I dont think  HSBC is right to suggest a 
cutoff date in January 2014  for those fees.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  that any insolvency  concerns Mr L might 
have had after January 2014  were no longer caused by the collar. At that point, he knew  that 
HSBC would be refunding all the payments he had made  to the collar. As a result, I dont 
think HSBC should  have to pay for restructuring advice after January 2014. However, the 
position is different  for accountancy  advice.
It is possible for the tax consequences of the mis-sale of a collar to extend  beyond the date 
basic redress is paid. I know that for many  borrowers, the mis-sale of a collar will have little 
to no impact on their overall tax position.  They will have  paid less tax in the years  the collar  
was in force (because their profits were artificially depressed),  and then more  tax in the year 
they received  redress (because their profits were artificially increased). Often those two 
effects balance  out, and so the borrower  will not suffer a tax loss. But I still consider that it 
was reasonable  for Mr L to pay for accountancy  services after January 2014  to work out 
whether he had in fact suffered a tax loss.
Overall, I still consider that the award  I suggested  in my January 2014 email is fair. However, 
as with the representatives  fees, I am amending  my award  in respect  of accountancy fees to 
take account of HSBCs voluntary offer.
Ref: DRN72072545I have previously said that HSBC should  pay £575  toward the fees of the first accountancy 
practice, and £1,110  toward the fees of the second  a total of £1,685.  In this final decision,  I 
am still awarding £575 for the first firms fees, but I am increasing my award  for the second  
firms fees to £1,069  plus VAT.
bank charges and bookkeeping costs
HSBCs evidence is that Mr and Mrs L incurred  an additional £248 of bank charges as a 
result of the mis-sale of the collar. I agree that it is fair for HSBC  to be required to refund 
those charges.
I also note that HSBC has asked me to include the £600 it offered  towards  bookkeeping  
costs as part of my award. Again, I am therefore  amending my award to take account of that 
offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs L:
£350 towards legal fees;
£575 towards the fees of the first accountancy firm;
£1,069 plus VAT towards the fees of the second accountancy firm;
£2,600 plus VAT towards Js fees;
£149.99 for overdraft  interest;
£248 towards bank  charges; plus
Interest on the legal  and accountancy  fees,  at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the 
date those fees were  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7207254