K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
with a credit  card. 
background
Mrs B took out a monthly  premium PPI policy with a credit card in 2001.  She took it out over 
the internet at the same time as applying  for the credit card. The policy  covered Mrs B 
against accident, sickness, or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain  why below:
Barclays needed to provide clear,  fair and not misleading information to Mrs B so she could 
fairly decide if she wanted to buy the policy. 
The policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical  conditions. I dont think this was made 
clear to Mrs B at the time she was sold the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs B as she had such a condition  at the time of the sale.
Mrs B has told us she had a medical  condition and had been diagnosed with it from 
childhood. Mrs B took two types  of medicine  for it on a daily basis.  From what  Ive seen I 
think Mrs B would think her condition, or something related to it, would be the most  likely 
reason for her to have  time off work.
Barclays has said that Mrs B hadnt  taken  time off work and this showed the condition  was 
being managed.  But Mrs B was in her late teens  at the time of the sale so hadnt actually 
been working that long. And in any event, the purpose of PPI is to protect against a future 
risk. The risk here is that the condition could  worsen.
Ive thought about what Barclays  has said about  the pre-existing  medical condition exclusion  
being made clear  at the time of the sale. But looking  at the terms and conditions and from 
what I know of the internet application process  I dont  think it was.
I dont think Mrs B would  have bought the policy if shed been given clearer  information  
about the policy exclusions. So, I think Mrs B has lost out because  of what Barclays  did 
wrong. 
putting things right
Ref: DRN75098392Barclays should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mrs B would  have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when  she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year .
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more  than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs B paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs B wouldve owed  Barclays something on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.Barclays should  tell Mrs B what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
I understand Barclays may have already paid Mrs B some compensation for undisclosed 
commission. If it has it can deduct this from what it owes her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7509839