K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent him money 
without carrying out adequate affordability  checks.
Mr M wants Sunny to pay him compensation and amend his credit  file.
background
Mr M took out 24 instalment loans with Sunny between November 2017 and August 2018.  
Mr M says that he was caught  in a debt spiral.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator 
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans five to 24. She recommended  that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mr M had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld in part. She asked  Sunny  to 
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Ms credit file. The adjudicator 
recommended that Sunny  remove loans six onwards entirely from Mr Ms credit file. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said that the monthly  repayments  
represented a small percentage of Mr Ms declared monthly income of £1,340. 
Sunny said that it took account  of the fact that Mr M was repaying  more than one loan at the 
same time when assessing  affordability.  Sunny said that it offers customers a flexible 
product allowing them to take out up to four loans at any one time.
As Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicators recommendation, the complaint has come  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mr M, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC carried guidance for lenders about responsible  lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
Ref: DRN77935962the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
loans one to four
Mr M didnt  disagree with the adjudicators  opinion  about loans one to four. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr M had 
with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when considering his other loans.
loan five
By the time that Mr M applied for loan five, he already had three  outstanding loans with 
Sunny.  Despite what Sunny says about its customers  enjoying the flexibility of its products, I 
think Sunny  shouldve been  concerned about why Mr M needed to borrow so often. 
I consider that it was reasonable to take Mr Ms lending pattern as an indication that his 
finances were under  pressure. And that Mr M couldnt sustainably afford to take on more  
debt. It follows that I agree with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint about  loan five.
loans six to 24
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
Ref: DRN77935963was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  
have given Mr M any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Ms borrowing suggested that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr M had taken out in just over three months. And Mr M 
took out loan six on the same day that he repaid  loan five. 
Mr M continued to take new lending that overlapped with a previous loan - sometimes 
borrowing three times in the same month. This meant that Mr M was repaying  more than one 
loan at a time.
Although the amounts that Mr M borrowed sometimes fluctuated, he often went on to borrow 
more money within the same month.  For example in May 2018  Mr M borrowed a total of 
£700 over six separate loans. 
I consider the pattern of repeated lending shouldve indicated to Sunny  that Mr M was facing 
financial difficulties.  And Sunny should have realised that it was more likely than not Mr M 
was reliant on short  term lending and needed to borrow further to fill the hole repaying his 
previous loans was leaving  in his finances.  
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to lend money from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So I consider that its fair to require Sunny to pay Mr M compensation relating to loans five to 
24. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on loans five to 24;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Ms credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 24 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 24 should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN77935964my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7793596