K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained to us that Firstplus Financial Group Plc (Firstplus) mis-sold 
them a single premium  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  in or around 
October 2007 when  they took out a loan secured against their home. 
background
Business A was a broker business  that was involved with arranging the finance and the 
PPI. 
The loan was repayable over 12 years. The PPI, being single premium cover, was added  as 
a single up front sum to the loan amount.
Mr and Mrs C completed  one of Business As loan application forms on 29 August 2007, but 
they didnt select  PPI.
Mr and Mrs C later signed a loan agreement on 4 October 2007. On the agreement, they 
ticked a box to show they wanted  to take out a joint PPI policy alongside the loan. 
Firstplus says it didnt  sell Mr and Mrs C the PPI. It says Business A managed  the whole 
application process and so was responsible  for the sale of the PPI.
Business A is no longer  trading so all the information I have about  the sale has been  
provided by Firstplus.
The loan sum was paid out to Mr and Mrs C by way of several cheques under cover  of a 
letter from Firstplus to Mr and Mrs C dated  11 October 2007.
First provisional  decision
In my first provisional decision, dated 26 February 2019, I explained why I considered 
Firstplus to be responsible for the sale of the PPI. I reached that conclusion because  it 
appeared to me that Firstplus had prepared the loan agreement with the PPI and there was 
limited evidence of Business A being  involved with its inclusion. 
Second provisional decision
In my second provisional decision, dated 30 March 2019, I explained why I now considered 
that Firstplus wasnt  responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
This was because,  from what  Mr and Mrs C had told me, it seemed very likely that they only 
dealt with the representative from Business A  albeit they thought the representative had 
come from Firstplus. I also took into account  that Mr and Mrs C had told me they filled in all 
of their paperwork for the loan and PPI on the same day. 
Firstplus pointed out that the sale had taken place  at Mr and Mrs Cs home.  It also said that 
all Firstplus PPI sales were  carried  out by phone rather  than in a meeting  so that meant it 
couldnt have  sold the PPI. 
developments
Ref: DRN70410702In response to my second provisional  decision,  Mr and Mrs C made  a number of points, 
which Ill summarise as follows:
The loan was arranged on the phone through Firstplus, who arranged  for a 
representative to visit them.
The representative from Business A told Mr and Mrs C he had been sent by Firstplus 
when he visited them. And the fact that he used Firstplus headed paperwork suggested  
he worked for Firstplus. 
That they were not sold the PPI during the visit by the representative given that it had 
already been added to the loan agreement. 
Mr and Mrs C also commented on the way this particular single-premium PPI product had 
been applied  to the loan,  but given that this relates to the merits of their complaint  rather  
than the issue  of who is responsible for the sale  thats not something Im able to look at. 
Having made Firstplus aware  of the points  put forward by Mr and Mrs C, Firstplus  provided 
me with the some  additional  information.  Ill summarise this as follows:
The loan agreement   including the PPI details - was prepared by the representative 
from Business A. 
Mr and Mrs C did not have to take the PPI. Had they not ticked the box on the form to 
take the PPI the representative  from Business A would  have provided  a new agreement 
without PPI. The loan process would then have continued with a credit agreement being  
issued that didnt include PPI. 
It would  not have been appropriate  for the representative from Business A to say he was 
from Firstplus  but in his capacity as a broker it would not have been unusual  for him to 
be providing Mr and Mrs C with a Firstplus product.
Firstplus also referred  me to the broker application form that showed the involvement of 
Business A in the sale process.  This was signed  by Mr and Mrs C. 
Firstplus also referred  me to a fax sent to Business A from their original  lender  
confirming their existing mortgage  details, as well as a letter  from Mr Cs employer that 
was sent to Business A to confirm details of his employment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having given further consideration to this complaint  and carefully reviewed the latest  
information and evidence provided to me by both Mr and Mrs C and Firstplus, I remain  of the 
view that its more likely than not that Business A was responsible for the sale of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs C. 
Im very much aware that Mr and Mrs C are of the view that the representative they met had 
told them  he was from Firstplus. And whilst I dont doubt theyve given me their best 
recollection of what happened  at the time, I have to take into account the sale paperwork 
Ref: DRN70410703and what Firstplus has told me in making my final decision. So whilst I cant  know what  the 
representative told them to make them think he was from Firstplus,  Im still persuaded that 
on balance the PPI was sold by Business A in its capacity as broker   and not as a 
representative of the finance and insurance  provider. 
I am very grateful to both parties for the time and trouble  theyve taken to provide me with 
additional information and evidence. I realise that this outcome will be disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs C but would like to reassure  them that Ive given very careful consideration to 
everything theyve told me and have raised  their points  with Firstplus to ensure that all of 
their concerns have  been addressed. 
It follows that I dont consider that Firstplus is responsible for the sale of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs C. 
my final decision
Its my final decision that Firstplus Financial Group Plc cannot be held responsible  for the 
sale of the policy.  And it follows  that Firstplus Financial Group Plc also cannot be held 
responsible for mis-selling  the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7041070