K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Vanquis Bank Limited  is asking  him to repay  far more than he thinks  he 
owes. He also complains  that it has charged  him £100 for going  over his limit, or paying  late 
and he has no chance of getting  out of the debt hes in.
background
Mr B opened  his Vanquis account in 2011  I understand  to help him improve his credit 
rating. He also took out Vanquis  ID protection  and the Repayment  Option  Plan. The ID 
protection was charged at £6.00  and the Repayment  Option  Plan charge was dependent  on 
the statement  balance   if there  was no balance no charge was made.  Both of these options 
incurred interest as a transaction on the account.  
Over the years Mr B has used his card both for purchases and cash  withdrawals. For a large 
proportion of that time, Mr B made his monthly  repayments as and when due. But there were 
occasions when  Mr B didnt make  a make a payment  or his spending took him over the 
agreed limit. This resulted  in charges  being applied to the account balance. 
In 2018 Mr B complained to Vanquis  as he believed his balance  should be far lower than it 
was and requested  a refund of all default charges that had been applied to his account. 
Vanquis didnt  uphold the complaint. It said the charges had been applied in accordance  with 
the terms and conditions. It also said that any charges  over six years old were out of time. It 
said it had refunded some charges previously and he had activated the repayment option 
plan, which  he could  do again. 
Not happy with the outcome, Mr B asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator 
concluded Vanquis hadnt done  anything wrong.  She explained we couldnt look at the 
charges that were  made  out of time. She found the other charges had been  applied in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions  and some of those had been refunded. She 
didnt think Vanquis  ought to have realised Mr B was in financial difficulties from the account 
operation until 2017.  She pointed out to Mr B that he had made  numerous cash withdrawals, 
which were more expensive, and had missed payments and gone over the limit. She also 
pointed out the records never showed  a charge  of £100. 
Mr B has asked  for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, he remains  dissatisfied about  the 
balance owing. Hes argued  that it was Vanquis who had told him it had charged him £100.  
Hes also said he wouldnt notify  a bank of financial difficulties until he knew  he definitely 
couldnt pay anything. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I would firstly like to reassure both parties  that although I have only summarised  the 
background and events  above, I have considered everything provided in its entirety. I know I 
have only briefly set out Mr Bs arguments. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but is a 
reflection of me concentrating on the crux of the issue and our quick and informal  service. 
Ref: DRN76274822I understand Mr B is concerned about  the amount he owes  and believes the charges he has 
incurred are unfair. Following a Supreme  Court judgment such charges cant  be challenged 
on the basis theyre unfair. And I can only ask Vanquis to refund charges if I find it has done 
something wrong. 
The account  terms and conditions set out that charges would be applied  whenever a 
payment was made late or the credit limit was exceeded. They  also explained the interest 
free period  and that cash withdrawals incurred an additional fee. Mr Bs statements show, 
contrary to his own assertions that he paid every month, that he did miss a number of 
repayments. He also went over the credit limit, often as a result  of making purchases and 
cash withdrawals. Each  time that happened  a charge was applied.  Having  reviewed the 
charges and when  they occurred. Im satisfied  they have been applied  in accordance  with 
the terms and conditions of the account.  I havent  seen  any evidence, nor has Mr B provided 
any, that he has ever been charged  £100  for any of those  events (nor I have seen evidence 
that Vanquis told him it had).
Having reviewed the operation of the account,  I dont think it would have been apparent  to 
Vanquis that Mr B had been suffering with financial difficulties until fairly recently. And by   
Mr Bs own admission he didnt inform it and didnt consider it necessary to do so until he 
wasnt in a position to pay anything. Whilst it may have been prudent to inform  Vanquis 
earlier, I understand Mr B didnt see it that way. Nevertheless, I can see that Vanquis 
contacted him when  payments were  missed and when being  notified of a change in 
circumstances, it offered the repayment option freeze. I can also see that it has refunded  a 
number of charges  to the account  already   a step I consider to be positive. 
In the absence of evidence  that it knew of Mr Bs difficulties,  I am satisfied Vanquis has acted 
fairly. And when it was notified, it agreed  payment plans  and activated  the repayment  option 
freeze, which reduced the minimum payment and interest charged on the account.  In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Vanquis has treated him with forbearance and due consideration.  
Mr B has recently said he was never aware he had taken out ID protection with the card 
account. If Mr B is unhappy, hell need  to complain to Vanquis about  that. Mr B has also told 
us his situation is unlikely to improve in the near future.  There  a number of organisations that 
can help with debts  such as the Citizens Advice  Bureau and StepChange. I would urge Mr B 
to contact one of those  organisations  to help with getting his finances back  on track. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7627482