K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  about the way esure  Insurance Limited handled a claim she made  on her 
motor policy. 
background
Ms B reversed into and knocked over a lamppost  on her friends property. She made a claim  
on her motor policy to cover the cost of replacement. Ms B had problems getting hold of the 
case handler and says there was a general  lack of communication during the course  of the 
claim. She also said the amount  offered  to settle the claim was not enough to cover the cost 
of replacing the lamppost. 
esure issued  their final response  on 5 January 2018. They  explained that the difference in 
the settlement  figure and the quotes  received for the replacement  of the lamppost, was VAT.  
They said the VAT would need to be paid by Ms B or her friend  and then esure would 
reimburse them on production of a VAT receipt. esure didnt address Ms Bs concerns about 
the handling of her claim in the final response. They told us they didnt think Ms B was an 
eligible complainant under our rules as she was representing her friend,  so we shouldnt  look 
into the complaint.  Another ombudsman has already considered  this separately. 
Our adjudicator highlighted  several  occasions  where  Ms B had been  unable to speak to the 
case handler and hadnt received responses to her emails. She acknowledged that esure 
had discussed  the settlement amount with Ms Bs friend, but hadnt done so with Ms B 
herself. As it was likely that Ms B would have to pay any difference in the amount of 
settlement and the cost of repairs, our adjudicator felt it was reasonable for Ms B to be 
concerned about  this. 
Our adjudicator felt esure  should have handled Ms Bs claim better. She recommended that 
they should apologise and pay Ms B £100  for the distress and inconvenience caused. esure 
disagreed with our adjudicator. They said:
Ms B wasnt an eligible complainant
Delays were to be expected because  Ms Bs friend should have claimed on her own 
home insurance rather than through Ms Bs motor  policy 
The distress  and inconvenience caused to Ms B stemmed from the accident  itself rather  
than their handling of the claim.  
There was no agreement, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that esure continue  to say that Ms B isnt eligible to bring the complaint to us. 
However, as all parties to the complaint are aware, another  ombudsman has already issued 
a decision on that. He decided that she is eligible  to do so. Both parties  have a copy of that 
decision. I agree with it so I wont comment further here.  
Ref: DRN79048142Its not clear whether  the lamppost has been  replaced as neither Ms B nor esure  can confirm 
that. But esure has made a payment to Ms Bs friend excluding VAT, and Ms B has had no 
contact from her friend asking for further  money.  It seems likely therefore that the settlement 
was ultimately sufficient to cover  the work needed.
Ms Bs policy with esure  covers her liability for an accident in which someone elses  property 
is damaged.... There is no dispute that Ms B is liable for the damage  caused to her friends  
property. So its not unreasonable  for her to make the claim under her policy. I accept that 
its an unusual claim and it may have been more straightforward for all parties if a claim had 
been made on the friends home insurance, but that doesnt mean  Ms B was wrong  to claim. 
It also doesnt mean that Ms B should  have expected a lower  standard  of service  while  the 
claim was processed than she might otherwise have received.
Its clear to me that an insured event occurred so it was always going  to be a stressful time 
for Ms B. But she found it difficult to get help from esure on the telephone and emails she 
sent werent always replied to in good time. I think this will have added to her stress as she 
wasnt getting answers to her enquires  and needed to manage  her friends expectations.  So 
esure should apologise to Ms B and pay her £100 for the added stress  caused to her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint. esure Insurance  Limited  should  apologise 
to Ms B and pay her £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7904814