K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has refunded interest to his partner following a 
review of her account, but has refused to review his case again.
background
Mr H and his partner  both made complaints about  Barclays that were dealt with by us. Mr H 
says that Barclays reviewed his partners complaint again and refunded her interest 
payments. But has refused to review his case again which he says is unfair as both of their 
complaints were the same.  Mr H also makes  a new complaint about Barclays  blocking his 
account and complains about  the interest  rate hes being charged.
Barclays says its not made  a mistake and that Mr Hs account  doesnt form part of a review. 
It accepts that it could have dealt with Mr Hs complaint  more  appropriately and has paid him 
£50 compensation.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought that it was up to Barclays to decide which  accounts to review and couldnt order it to 
review Mr Hs account unless there  was a mistake, which he didnt think  had taken place. He 
also thought we couldnt look at the interest rate complaint as that had previously been 
looked at. And the investigator  didnt  think we could look at the complaint about the account 
being blocked as Barclays hadnt  issued its final response to that.
Mr H doesnt agree with that view and says his position was that same  as his partners. He 
accepts Barclays cant be forced to review his account again  but says it can do so if there is 
new evidence, and if hes been treated unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator. I realise  Mr H will be disappointed  by my decision. I 
also wish to make clear  to him that I cant look at parts of his complaint that were  previously 
dealt with by us, for example the complaint about  the interest rate. And I cant  look at his 
complaint about  the block applied to his account as Barclays hasnt issued its final response 
to that complaint yet. I can look at Mr Hs complaint that Barclays  should review his account 
as it had reviewed his partners account.
I appreciate that Mr H says his circumstances were the same as his partners and so its 
unfair of Barclays not to review his complaint again. But Im satisfied that Barclays  has said it 
has looked at Mr Hs complaint and account and decided that it doesnt form part of its 
review. I also think its up to Barclays  to decide  which accounts it reviews  when exercising its 
commercial judgement and not something I can fairly  interfere in. So for those reasons I 
dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or made  a mistake by refusing to review  Mr Hs 
complaint and account again. I also dont think there is any new evidence  which  suggests 
Barclays made a mistake when it originally  dealt with Mr Hs complaint or how it previously 
dealt with him. 
As I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly I cant reasonably order  it to review  Mr Hs 
position or original  complaint.
Ref: DRN79515882my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7951588