K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly when it 
lent him money in 2013.
background 
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 24 October 2019. A copy  of this is 
attached below and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I set out the background to this complaint and I explained why I 
thought it should be partially upheld. I said that I felt it was reasonable NatWest  had given Mr 
O a credit card, second overdraft and first loan in the summer of 2013. But that I thought it 
ought to have carried out further checks before giving him a second loan. And that if had 
done, it would have realised this loan unaffordable for him.
I explained that I intended to ask NatWest to refund  any interest and charges applied to this 
second loan, not to apply  any further  interest or charges  to the outstanding  balance, and to 
remove any adverse information  about  it from Mr Os credit  file.
Mr O responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision.  NatWest also responded 
to confirm that it didnt  have any further  information to provide in respect  of this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has offered any new comments or evidence,  it follows that I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in provisional decision.  Im still of the opinion that 
this complaint should be partially upheld for the reasons  I outlined  in my provisional findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right National Westminster Bank PLC must: 
-Refund all interest  and charges applied to the second loan it gave Mr O. NatWest  
should use the refund to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan
-Not add any further charges or interest  to the outstanding loan balance going forward
-Remove any adverse  information in relation to the second loan from Mr Os credit file 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79657272copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly when it lent him 
money in 2013.
background
Mr O developed  a gambling addiction  in the summer  of 2013 and began borrowing  money to support 
this. At the time he already had a graduate bank account with NatWest with an agreed overdraft limit 
of £2,000.
NatWest then approved further lending  applications made on the following dates;
22 July 2013 - credit card with a credit limit of £1,850
4 September 2013 - loan for £1,500, repayable  over 12 months
6 September 2013 - overdraft of £600
12 September 2013 - loan for £1,800,  repayable  over 12 months
In March 2019  Mr O complained to NatWest.  He said it acted irresponsibly when it approved these 
applications. And he asked for a refund of interest and charges and the removal  of any adverse  
information from his credit  file. He says he was on a zero hours contract  earning variable amounts 
each month.  And he had various other debit and credit cards which ran up total debts of over 
£30,000. 
NatWest didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had used credit scoring  to assess Mr Os 
applications and hed met its lending  criteria.  
Our investigator didnt think there was any evidence  to suggest NatWest had done anything wrong 
here either. And she didnt think  NatWest knew, or ought to have known, about  Mr Os gambling 
addiction. 
Mr O disagrees. He thinks that if NatWest had asked more questions about his income  and 
expenditure it wouldnt have  given him the two loans. And he feels it should  have done this given  the 
short time between his applications.  So the case has been passed  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so I think this complaint should  be partially upheld.  
When lending or extending  credit to a customer we expect a bank to make checks  that are 
reasonable and proportionate  to the lending. There arent any set checks  NatWest  had to carry  out. 
But it should have made sufficient checks to be confident that Mr O could  repay  the borrowing in a 
sustainable manner.
NatWest has shown us that it carried out checks following each of his applications. This included 
looking at information  held by credit reference agencies. Its explained  that these checks  were  
automated. And that credit  card applications  and loan applications are dealt with by separate parts of 
its business.
I can see that NatWest  declined a number  of other applications Mr O made  for loans and overdraft  
extensions during this period. I agree this shows that it was taking steps to assess  the affordability of 
its lending, and restricted the amount  of money it was willing to offer him.
Ref: DRN79657273However, in these individual circumstances,  I have some concerns about its decision to extend  the 
second loan to Mr O. Ill explain why.
When NatWest looked at Mr Os credit card application it made some projections and calculated that 
his monthly expenditure  was around £1,050. Mr O declared that he had an income of £1,500  a month. 
And after looking  at the cost of his other borrowing NatWest felt he had £387 a month in net free 
funds at this time. This was more than sufficient  to meet the monthly repayments for his credit card. 
And I think its reasonable  that based on this assessment and the other checks it carried out NatWest 
approved this application.
Mr O also declared that he had an income  of £1,500  a month  when he applied for the second 
overdraft and the first loan.  Repayments on this loan were £140.65 a month, and again  Im satisfied 
that based  on the information hed given  to NatWest, these appeared   at the time of the applications  
 to be affordable.
I understand Mr O was in fact on a zero  hours employment contract, which  meant his monthly 
income was not fixed. Im not sure if hed specifically made NatWest aware of this or not. Ive looked 
back at his bank statements  over the year prior to these applications and can see he was paid 
between £985 and £2,100 each month.
I agree that £1,500 a month was an exaggeration of his average income. But I can see that when 
assessing his credit  card application NatWest  also looked  at the average amount that was credited  to 
his bank account each  month, and recorded that this was £1,396. And based on this lower figure I still 
think that the credit card, second overdraft and first loan appeared to be affordable.
When he applied  for the second loan,  Mr O declared an income of £1,274 a month.  And NatWest 
assessed his application using  this figure. It didnt do a full monthly  expenditure  projection like it did 
when he made his credit card application. But instead looked at his living  arrangements and housing 
costs, as well as the cost of his other borrowing. 
I understand this was done  in line with NatWests usual  process  for assessing  applications like this. I 
can see it performed  the same checks for his first loan application. And I appreciate that on both 
occasions Mr O met its normal lending criteria.  
My role isnt to consider  whether NatWests general  approach to evaluating the affordability of 
applications for borrowing  is reasonable. Rather Ive looked at the specific applications made  by Mr O, 
and taken into account the circumstances around them.
Having considered  the information NatWest already knew about  him at the time of the second loan 
application (even  if some of this information  was held by a separate part of its business),  Im not 
persuaded that the checks NatWest carried out here were proportionate in the circumstances. Given 
the reduction in his declared  income,  the number of applications hed made to it for borrowing, and 
the amounts it had already  lent him in a short space of time, I think it would have been reasonable for 
NatWest to have asked  Mr O some  further questions about his income and expenditure before giving 
him the second  loan. 
I cant  see that Mr Os outgoings had reduced since hed made his credit card application. And after 
an assumed monthly  expenditure  of £1,050, existing  loan repayments of £140.65, credit card 
repayments at a minimum of £40, and two overdrafts - I dont think  that he had sufficient  net free 
funds to make the additional  monthly repayments of £167.64 required for the second loan. So if 
NatWest had asked him for more information, I think its likely it would have concluded that this loan 
wasnt affordable for him. And that it wouldnt have approved  this application.
I understand Mr O feels strongly  that NatWest shouldnt  have given  him the first loan either. And Ive 
thought about the arguments hes made here. But I havent come  to this conclusion.
Ref: DRN79657274I dont agree that his existing overdraft and credit card meant NatWest  shouldnt have approved the 
first loan. His graduate  bank  account had generally  been managed satisfactorily. Hed stayed  within  
his overdraft  limit and money had been  credited to the account regularly. And whilst I can see he 
reached his credit card limit quickly,  some  large  payments were  also made to the account. So I dont 
think its unreasonable that NatWest felt Mr O could afford the repayments for this first loan based on 
the information it had at the time. 
Mr O has also given  us a copy of his credit  report to demonstrate the extent of his other financial  
commitments. I can see that during August and September  2013 he took out credit  cards with other 
lenders, in addition to some payday loans. But it generally  takes a number  of weeks for information 
about new borrowing to appear on a persons  credit file. And NatWest has shown us it wasnt aware 
of this other borrowing when it carried  out its checks on his applications here.
I dont think it would  have  known about  other outstanding applications hed made  to lenders during the 
same period either. So I cant fairly say that NatWest made  a mistake by not taking this into 
consideration. And I still think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the credit card, overdraft  and 
first loan were affordable.
Im sorry to hear Mr O has had struggles with gambling. Ive thought about whether it was 
irresponsible for NatWest  to extend the other lending  to him on this basis, regardless of the 
affordability checks it carried out. But I dont think it was. 
Looking at Mr Os statements I cant see any gambling  transactions were carried out using  his 
NatWest bank accounts  until after hed applied for the credit card,  and shortly before he applied  for 
the loans and second overdraft. 
It does look like in the short time Mr O had the credit card before applying for the further lending it was 
mainly used for gambling purposes. But I can also see hed made  some significant  payments to the 
card throughout  July and August. So again I dont think this would  necessarily  have indicated that he 
was struggling.   
NatWest says that it wouldnt refuse to lend to someone based on their choice to partake in gambling 
transactions. And I dont think thats unreasonable - many people choose to spend money in this way 
and theyre  entitled to do so. I also havent seen any evidence that Mr O had made NatWest aware at 
this time that he was struggling to control his gambling,  or that it had become a problem.  I can see 
from NatWests records that Mr O only let it know he was struggling financially  on 22 November 2013. 
Its clear that Mr O got into financial difficulties shortly after he took this borrowing  from NatWest. But 
for the reasons Ive outlined above I think that NatWest acted reasonably when it approved his 
applications for the credit card, second overdraft and first loan. So I dont think it would be fair for me 
to ask it to refund all of the interest  and charges  Mr O is asking for here. 
However, I do think it ought to refund  the interest and charges it applied to his second loan. This 
means that, while Mr O should  still have to pay back what hes borrowed and spent   he can do so 
without being disadvantaged by having to pay back any more than this amount.
I also intend  to tell NatWest not to apply any further charges or interest to the remaining balance. And 
to remove any adverse information its reported about  the second loan to the credit  reference 
agencies. 
Ref: DRN79657275my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that this complaint should be partially upheld for the reasons  Ive outlined  
above.
To put things right I intend to ask National  Westminster Bank  PLC to: 
-Refund all interest and charges applied  to the second loan. NatWest should use the refund to 
reduce the outstanding  balance of the loan
-Not charge any interest on the outstanding loan balance going forward
-Remove any adverse information in relation  to the second loan from Mr Os credit file 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7965727