K821x#15complaint
This complaint arises from a central  heating insurance policy provided by British  Gas
Insurance Limited. Mr U is bringing the complaint on behalf  of the estate of his late father,
Mr K, in whose name the policy was provided.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in June 2020, part of which is copied below: 
Mr K took out the policy which provided cover for his boiler and central  heating  system in
August 2015.  It is a requirement of the policy that there is an initial inspection of the boiler  to
make sure British Gas is prepared to insure it.
British Gas sent a welcome letter to Mr K on 5 August 2015, which said it would  be in touch
soon to arrange the first service. British Gas says it also wrote to Mr K to arrange the first
service for his boiler  on 13 and 27 August 2015.  It says it sent several more  letters  between
2016 and 2019 asking  Mr K to book an annual service. I understand that Mr Ks boiler was
not serviced at all by British Gas.
In February 2019,  Mr K made  a claim as the boiler had broken down. British Gas sent an
engineer to inspect  the boiler.  He said that the heat exchanger was split, there were issues
with the flue and the water in the system  was of poor quality. British  Gas said that the
system would not have  passed the initial service and if that had been carried out as it should
have been, it would  not have agreed to provide  cover. British Gas therefore cancelled the
policy and refused to repair the boiler.
Mr U is very unhappy about this. He has provided  evidence that the boiler was serviced in
June 2014 by Mr Ks previous insurer. Mr U says Mr K didnt speak or read English and
didnt receive the letters  about the first service and the other  annual  services. Mr U says his
contact details had been provided to British Gas,  so it could have contacted him by phone or
email for such important matters. Mr U says he had to replace the boiler and has provided
an invoice dated  9 February 2019, showing this cost £2,200.  He wants  British  Gas to
reimburse this cost and the claim excess which his father paid.
British Gas maintained  its position about the policy but offered £50 compensation for the
wrong information given during a call when it said it would reinstate the policy. It also offered
to refund all the premiums  £727.61  plus interest  at 8% (£785.83 total).
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He said that the policy  terms are clear that if
problems are identified  during  the first service,  the cost of the repair  wouldnt be covered by
the policy. The investigator said he was satisfied British Gas had made reasonable attempts
to contact Mr K to carry out a first service  and subsequent annual services, so it was not
unreasonable that British Gas voided the policy on finding faults.
The investigator also said that if Mr K had paid an excess when the claim was made in 2019
this should also be reimbursed. British  Gas says no excess had been paid but if Mr U can
provide evidence that this was paid, it can be considered.
Mr U does not accept  the investigators assessment. Mr U has made a number of
submissions, which Ive summarised  below:
The engineer  came out, stripped  down  the boiler, took out parts, taped it up and
Ref: DRN75033422capped off the gas pipe. The engineer was on the verge of ordering the replacement
part and said hed had the go ahead from British Gas when he then said the policy
was voided.
His engineer wouldnt  touch the boiler because of what British  Gas had done to it and
so he had no choice  but to replace it.
Both his parents were vulnerable at the time (Mr K was recovering from a heart
attack) and were left without heating and hot water for two weeks,  with temperatures
at the time being below zero, waiting for a response  from British Gas. £50
compensation for this delay is not sufficient for this. He phoned British Gas during
this time and was twice  told the voidance would be overturned
Mr K had cover with another provider before  taking this policy and had the boiler
serviced every year. The boiler was around  ten years  old.
There is no reason the boiler  would have failed that initial inspection.
Mr K arranged  an annual service in January 2019 to take place on 21 February 2019.
He received a call from a British Gas engineer on 21 February  2019,  but the policy
had already been voided at this point. The engineer  told him the policy  was in place
and Mr K had to call British Gas to check.
The policy renewed three times since Mr K took out the policy  and at no point did
Mr K receive any information  that the policy would  be voided if it was not serviced.
He didnt receive any renewal documents and no information about  the renewal
prices.
British Gas is quick to chase payment by any means of communication but didnt use
other forms of communication regarding the initial service  visit.
If the claim had not been made,  British  Gas would have continued taking  premiums
for a policy it says was void.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home emergency insurance policies, such  as this one, do not cover every  eventuality or
incident which might  befall the insured property.  Rather, the policy sets out specific  incidents
which will be covered and in turn this cover may be subject to specified  exclusions. We
would generally  accept that insurers are entitled to decide  what  risks they want  to cover  and
which risks they want to exclude.
So it is not unreasonable for British Gas to want an initial inspection of the boiler before
deciding if it is prepared  to cover it. British Gas has suggested  this is effectively a condition
precedent to cover. A condition precedent imposes  an obligation on the policyholder to take
certain steps in relation to the insured property, before any right to benefit  under  the policy
commences.
As such a term could have a significant  effect on cover  effectively removing all cover  if not
complied with  it needs to be made  sufficiently clear to the policyholder.  That means that it
should not just be written  clearly but should  be sufficiently prominent in the policy terms. The
more significant  and restrictive a term is, the clearer it should be.
In addition, even  if such a term is sufficiently clearly expressed in the policy documentation,
insurers should not unreasonably  reject a claim by relying on technical breaches of
condition that are not materially connected  with the circumstances of the claim. In other
Ref: DRN75033423words, insurers  need  to show prejudice as a result of the breach of condition in order to
reject the claim. The breach has to be material to the loss  not material  to other
considerations. This has long been our approach  and is also ratified in legislation  and the
Financial Conduct  Authority rules.
So, in order to rely on the condition relating  to the initial  service,  British Gas would have to
show that the significance of it was adequately  brought to Mr ks attention  and that the lack
of the initial  service directly caused  the breakdown of the boiler.
The welcome letter sent to Mr K on 5 August 2015 confirms cover  is in place and then lists in
bullet points the main  features and benefits of the cover. There  is then the following
paragraph:
Well be in touch soon to arrange your First Service
This lets us check everything  is working  safely and that well be able to get approved parts
for your heating system if we need  to.
The letter sent on 13 August 2015, says:
For your safety,  please  call to book your First ServiceAs your safety  is always  our prime
concern, we want to carry out your First Service as soon as possible.
This service, which is included in your agreement,  lets us:
Make  sure all appliances and systems covered  in your agreement  are working safely.
Check we will always be able to carry out necessary repairs using approved parts,  so
we can look after your system throughout your HomeCare  agreement.
Check that everything is working as efficiently as possible.
A further  communication  has been provided  which says: dont miss out on your 
HomeCare service. Youve already paid for it.
There is no indication in any of these communications that cover depended on this
inspection being  carried out. To the contrary the letters confirm cover is in place.
The policy document sent to Mr K says:
First service
Your first service  will usually be within 42 days of you first taking out the product  or changing
your address. If weve already carried out a first service or an annual  service at your address
in the last twelve months, we wont carry out another one  even if youve just moved in. If
weve installed a new boiler for you the first service will be carried out as part of the
installation.
At the first service our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved list and your
boiler or central heating and ventilation dont  have any pre-existing faults.  If we find its not
on the approved  list or it has a pre-existing fault well either:
 Tell you what  needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost
 Offer  you a different product or level of cover
 Or, cancel  your agreement or product
If we cancel your agreement or product at your first service, well refund you in full, unless
Ref: DRN75033424weve completed any work since you bought your agreement or product in which case you
may have  to pay cancellation charges   see cancellation  charges table.
The above  term is reasonably clearly written. However, it is found at page 26 of the policy
document. And it does not state  what will happen  if the initial service is not carried  out  only
what will happen if the boiler fails that initial service. I do not consider this to be sufficiently
prominent or clear  therefore.
These documents are not clear enough  to inform Mr K what would happen if the initial
service visit was not carried out. After the letters sent in August  2015, no further
correspondence was sent about  the initial service visit. There  were apparently requests to
arrange a regular annual service instead.  And the policy was renewed three times, with no
further mention  of the initial service visit and no indication  that full cover might not be in
place.
I have no reason to doubt the renewal  documents were sent and Ive seen no evidence that
any specific request not to write  to the property was ever made, so British  Gas could not
have been aware  that there  was any problem with writing to Mr K at his home  address. But
even if they were sent, none of the documents were clear enough, even if Mr K had
assistance in reading them.
I agree  with Mr U that on a matter of such significance to the cover, it would have been
reasonable for British Gas to try other  means  of communication  to arrange the initial  service
visit. British Gas has said that as Mr K couldnt speak English, this would not have made any
difference. I do not accept this to be a reasonable defence. It made  no such attempts and it
should have done so. In any case,  I note Mr U says the phone number associated  with the
policy was his. He was called by the engineer when the annual  service visit was booked.
In addition to the above,  I do not consider that British  Gas has established that it would have
made any difference to its decision to provide the cover, if the initial  service visit had taken
place in 2015.
There is evidence the boiler was serviced  in 2014 and had continued to work, seemingly
without problem (as no other claims were made) for almost  four years before this claim was
made.
The notes of British  Gass engineer say: contract void no response  to letter  to service boiler.
Hex [heat exchanger]  split no asv [annual service visit] for 5 years.
British Gas also referred to the water in the system being orange indicating  air in the system.
But this does not tell me why British Gas thinks it would  have found faults with the boiler  if it
had attended  in 2015 and why it deems  it reasonable to void the policy.
There is no evidence at all that the boiler would have failed an initial inspection visit in 2015.
Given the above, I do not therefore agree that refusal of the claim and voidance  of the policy
was reasonable.  It was not fair or reasonable for British Gas to renew the policy  three times,
knowing that the initial service visit had not taken place and then seek  to rely on that fact to
void the policy, with no evidence of any prejudice.
I now have to consider  the effect  this had on Mr K.
The claim was made  on 5 February 2019  and British  Gas didnt attend for two days. There is
Ref: DRN75033425no explanation  about this delay. Mr K and his wife were both vulnerable  and with no heating
and hot water. An attendance should have been  arranged for the same day or the next day
at the latest.
Mr U says the refusal to deal with the claim meant Mr K and his wife were without heating
and hot water for around  two weeks. However British Gas attended  on 7 February 2019 and
the invoice for the new boiler was dated  9 February  2019. It seems to me therefore that Mr K
and his wife were without  heating  and hot water  for around three  days longer than should
have been necessary due to British Gas.  And Mr K should not have had to find his own
engineer to come and look at the boiler,  when he had taken this cover so that he would not
need to do so.
Mr U says BG stripped  the boiler  down and left it in a state  that it could not be worked on by
anyone else, so he had to replace it but that it could have been  repaired. There  is nothing
from Mr Us engineer to confirm this.
British Gas would have had to pay for the replacement  of the heat exchanger  and repair of
the other issues. I have  no evidence of what that would have cost. Even if I accept the boiler
had to be replaced because it had been  left stripped down by British  Gas, I do not consider it
should reimburse the entire cost of the boiler.  I have to take account of the fact the old boiler
was over ten years old and there  is benefit in having a new boiler.  I also have to take
account of the refund  of premiums, which I consider to be a contribution to the cost of the
new boiler.
Having taken everything into account, I consider the sum of £500 (in addition to the refund of
premiums) to be appropriate to reflect the loss of expectation, the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect refusal of this claim and voidance  of the policy,
including being  without heating and hot water for longer than should have been  the case;
and having to arrange and pay for the replacement of the boiler.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require  British  Gas Insurance  Limited to do the
following:
refund  the premiums  paid for the policy together with interest at 8% simple per
annum, from the date each premium was paid to the date of reimbursement (if not
already paid); and
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of
the matter.
responses to my provisional  decision  
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mr U confirms he accepts my provisional  decision and has not added anything further. 
British Gas has also confirmed that it has nothing further to add. It has confirmed that it sent 
two cheques to Mr U in February 2019, one for £727.61 being the refund of premium  and 
one for £108.21  being the interest  and £50 compensation.  Its records show  that both 
cheques have been cashed. 
Ref: DRN75033426my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence,  I see no reason to change  
my provisional findings. I remain of the opinion that British Gas should not have voided the 
policy and should  have dealt with the claim.  I therefore also remain of the opinion  that 
compensation of £500 is appropriate  to reflect the distress and inconvenience  caused by the 
handling of this claim. This is in addition  to the £50 already paid for telling Mr U it would 
reinstate the policy. 
British Gas has provided evidence that it has already refunded the premiums together with 
interest at our usual  rate, and the £50 compensation,  and that this has been cashed. The 
refund will remain as part of my decision but as it has already been paid, British  Gas only 
therefore needs to pay the £500  compensation now. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require British Gas Insurance  Limited  to do the
following:
refund  the premiums  paid for the policy together with interest at 8% simple per
annum, from the date each premium was paid to the date of reimbursement (which I 
understand has already been paid); and
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of
the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U, on behalf  of
Mr Ks estate,  to accept or reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7503342