K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about the amount  of charges  Barclays Bank  UK PLC (the bank) has 
added to her account at a time when  shes been in financial  difficulties. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. His conclusions were  that (a) the bank had been 
entitled to apply the charges to Mrs Cs account  and (b) it had written  to Mrs C several  times  
over the years asking  her to contact the bank if she was in financial difficulties and referring  
to possible options  for helping  her. There was no evidence  Mrs C had contacted the bank  to 
tell it she was in financial difficulties. So the bank hadnt been required to do more.
Via her representative Mrs C said she had indeed visited a branch of the bank to tell the 
bank of her difficulties and shed also phoned  the bank to do the same.
The adjudicator asked the bank  to check its records, but it could find no record or evidence  
of the branch visit or the phone call(s). 
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She has referred to various other  
ways the bank might have  tried to help her, apart from repaying charges. 
my findings
Im sorry  to read Mrs C has been  so unwell and I wish her a swift and full recovery. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but I too 
have concluded  her complaint doesnt  succeed.
I think all agree the bank  should be positive and sympathetic to customers in financial 
difficulties, but this doesnt  require  the bank to refund charges that were lawfully applied to 
the account, as here. Mrs C has referred to various other possibilities via which the bank 
might have tried to help her. 
Ive concluded  there  was no prescribed  way for the bank to help Mrs C. The bank was 
always entitled to have regard to its own interests  while being positive and sympathetic, and 
to exercise its commercial judgement prudently. But an important  point in this case  is that 
despite the bank asking  Mrs C several times  if she was in difficulty and needed help, Mrs C 
didnt respond  in those terms  at least as far as the available evidence indicates. 
In the circumstances, I dont think I could fairly  expect the bank to have done more.  
Ref: DRN73730682my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7373068