K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) because hes been charged interest on 
his credit card purchases  and he thought a 0% interest promotion on balance transfers 
and new purchases  applied to his account.
background
Around August  2017, Mr R says he called BOS about his credit card and says they agreed 
to apply 0% balance transfer  promotion to his account. He also says they agreed to apply  a 
0% interest promotion to any new purchases as well  which  was to apply until May 2019.
In April 2019, Mr R got in touch with BOS,  because he noticed that hed been charged over
£300 interest on new purchases hed made  with his card. In response, BOS said there was 
no trace  of the phone  call Mr R had with them and that he only had a 0% promotion  applied 
for balance  transfers   not new purchases. But they did offer £35 in recognition of any mis-
information theyd  given.
Mr R told our service  that BOS said their promotion applied to balance transfers and new 
purchases, which is why he didnt cancel  his existing card at the time. He assumed he had 
0% on purchases until May 2019 and put this date in his calendar. Mr R added there was no 
information about the promotions visible on his online statement summary  and is unhappy 
BOS doesnt have a copy  of the call and didnt write to him about the promotions theyd 
agreed to.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint  he thought there wasnt enough evidence 
to show BOS had offered  Mr R this promotion  and said their offer of £35 was fair. And 
when Mr R sent some further  evidence  to show BOS did offer 0% interest promotions on 
new purchases, our investigator thought these applied to new customers  only.  
As Mr R didnt  agree, his complaint  was passed to me to make a final decision.
I sent Mr R and BOS a provisional decision  on 19 December 2019 and I said I was 
thinking of not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I gave both parties  until 2 January 2020  to 
provide me with any further comments or information they wanted me to consider.
BOS havent provided any additional evidence, but Mr R has. Having considered  these 
further comments  and everything  I said in my provisional decision  Im still minded 
not to uphold his complaint. Ive attached my provisional findings at the end of this 
decision  and responded to Mr Rs final points  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, Ive decided  not 
to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know hes likely to be disappointed, as its clear  he feels very 
strongly about what has happened.
Mr R says that BOS werent being factually correct when they said he wouldnt have been 
eligible for a future 0% deal if hed cancelled his existing credit card with them. He says 
Ref: DRN77748242banks and credit card providers do this all the time  and this has always  been the case. 
Ive thought about this and accept that this might be the case  with other providers. But the 
evidence Ive seen  about BOS credit  card promotions only shows  offers for new 
customers  and Ive not seen  anything  to suggest Mr R wouldve been  eligible for a new 
0% promotion on balance transfers  and purchases. 
I also acknowledge that BOS initially said they werent offering 0% interest on purchases 
at the time at all. But theyve since confirmed this offer was available  for new customers  
only and provided  evidence to back this up. Overall, Im satisfied that 0% interest on 
purchases wasnt available to existing customers. 
Mr R adds that he did tell BOS that, unless they agreed to offer 0% on purchases  and 
balance transfers,  he would cancel his credit  card and either apply again for one of theirs or 
alternatively apply  to another bank or company. And he says there  was no need  for him to 
carry on with just the balance transfer promotion  with BOS at that stage  and as he has an 
excellent credit rating he couldve easily taken out a new card elsewhere.
And I accept  that its possible  that Mr R mightve  said this to BOS  but as the telephone call 
recording isnt available,  I cant  be certain  what was said. So, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, based on the evidence available, I thought  it was more likely than not 
that BOS agreed  to reinstate  his suspended  promotion on its existing terms (which didnt 
include 0% on purchases). I also thought  it was more likely than not that Mr R accepted this. 
And what Mr R has said in response  to my provisional decision hasnt changed my mind.  
It also follows that I still think  BOS  offer of £35 was fair.
In summary   having considered Mr Rs additional points in conjunction with everything I 
covered in my provisional decision  I think its more likely than not that BOS  didnt offer Mr 
R a 0% promotion of new purchases,  when  they reinstated his existing promotion around 
August 2017.  As thats the case,  I wont be asking BOS to compensate him any further.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr R complaint against  Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77748243my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, Im thinking of not
upholding Mr Rs complaint. I know hes likely  to be disappointed, but Ive explained below
why I think thats fair.
Mr Rs complaint stems from a telephone call he says he had with of BOS around
August 2017.  I accept  that a call recording isnt available. But I dont think  this is unusual.
Business arent obliged  to record calls and, when they do, they arent not obliged to retain
them indefinitely.
So, Ive considered the evidence that is available. This includes Mr Rs testimony  about  what
was discussed,  a note recorded by BOS on the contact notes it holds on Mr Rs account
records, his credit card statements and screenshots of the offers the bank were  making  from
around this time. And Ive used all the available information to decide what I think  is most
likely to have been discussed and agreed when Mr R spoke  with BOS in August 2017.
From Mr Rs statements, Ive noted the following:
- a balance  transfer  was applied on 2 May 2017
- Mr R made  a retail  purchase on 4 May 2017
- a promotional interest rate of 0% applied to this balance transfer
- interest was applicable  to purchases
- in June  2017  Mr R reduced the outstanding balance, but a small amount interest  was
applied to the retail  purchase
- In July 2017 Mr R made a payment which was returned unpaid and as a result he
incurred a late payment  fee and again a nominal interest payment was taken
-  and the transfer promotion is no longer applied to his account.
- In August 2017 the late payment fee was refunded and the O% promotional  rate on
balance transfers  was reapplied
Having thought carefully about the sequence of events above,  I think its likely the promotion
on Mr Rs account was suspended because of the late payment  generally,  credit card
providers withdraw  promotional rates when payments are made late and this is the approach
BOS currently takes. And I think the evidence suggests they took a similar approach  with Mr
Rs account in 2017. So, I think its most likely  that Mr R rang BOS  in August 2017 to discuss
reinstating his balance transfer promotion  after he discovered the promotional  rate had
been withdrawn.
This is supported by BOS notes about  Mr Rs account as this indicates  that the balance
transfer promotion was reinstated to his account in August 2017  and his late payment fee
was refunded. So, I think this makes  it clear BOS agreed to do reinstate  the 0% interest
promotion on balance  transfers.
Whats less clear is whether BOS agreed  to offer 0% on purchases  as well as reinstate the
balance transfer  promotional rate. But I dont think its likely BOS  wouldve offered him a 0%
promotion on new purchases at this time as well. Ill explain why.
Mr R has been consistent in his testimony that BOS  offered him both balance  transfers  and
new purchases at 0% interest. I can see that he first queried the interest that was applied to
his account around  April 2019.  And this ties in with Mr Rs explanation that he thought a 0%
Ref: DRN77748244promotion on new purchases was in place  until May 2019  and why he says he hadnt
checked his full statements any sooner, as he wasnt expecting to accrue interest  on any
new purchases hed made.
I accept this is Mr Rs honest recollection  of what was agreed. But I have  to think about  all
the evidence thats available  not just what hes told us.
I can see the promotional  rate suspended  in July 2017 didnt include 0% interest on new
purchases  this is supported by Mr Rs statements, as they show  he incurred interest  on a
retail purchase around this time.
So, I think when BOS  agreed to reinstate Mr Rs suspended promotion, its more likely  they
reinstated it on the terms already agreed  0% interest on balance transfers only.
And I think its less likely BOS wouldve added an additional promotion  particularly as one t
wasnt available to existing customers like Mr R.
Even if I accepted that BOS had said they would apply the promotional rate to purchases
too, when a business provides mis-information, the remedy to put things right isnt to put the
consumer in the position they wouldve been  had that information been right. But as I dont
think its likely that BOS  offered O% on purchases, this doesnt  alter the outcome of the
complaint. But I note BOS  has offered and paid Mr R £35, and I think thats a fair amount.
I appreciate Mr Rs explanation of why he didnt think he needed  to check  his full statements
each month   and what hes said about  the online summary not including  any information
about the promotions that applied to his account.  But I think by providing the information in
the statement, BOS  did enough to make  Mr R aware  of what  offer had been applied to his
account.
Mr R has suggested he wouldve cancelled his existing card and reapplied for a new one if
BOS hadnt agreed  to offer him 0% on new purchases. But BOS  have confirmed  this
wouldnt have made a difference, as they would still have recognised him as an existing
customer.
I know Mr R is unhappy BOS cant supply  a copy of his call and says they didnt send him a
letter of confirmation  following  it  and I can understand his frustration over this.
Unfortunately, BOS havent been  able to find evidence  about the call or any written
communication that followed it. But Im satisfied that Ive seen  enough information to make a
fair decision on this complaint.
In conclusion, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think BOS  offered to apply 0% interest
on new purchases when  Mr R spoke  to them around August 2017. I appreciate Mr R recalls
things differently  but there  isnt enough information available to support this.
I can see BOS  have  already paid Mr R £35. As I dont think BOS  have done anything wrong, 
it follows that I dont  think  BOS needs  to do anything else to settle the complaint.
Ref: DRN7774824