K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him payment  protection  
insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr W applied  for a credit card in 2001  and bought the PPI at the same  time.
He says the box on his application  form selecting PPI was marked  before he signed the 
form. And he says he didnt need the cover because  he was living  at home with his parents 
at the time and wasnt paying rent.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt  uphold it. Mr W disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give will help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Mr W bought the PPI in a branch meeting with a Halifax adviser. Halifax  needed to make it 
clear to him the PPI was optional  and it also needed to get his agreement  to it. I dont know  
how Halifax explained the PPI to Mr W in the meeting. But I do have a copy of the credit card 
application form Mr W signed  at the time. I can see it says, under a section headed Product 
details, If you want these services  please mark the relevant boxes. One of the boxes is for 
PPI (the other is for card protection).  Theres an x in the box for PPI. So I think  Mr W 
agreed to it, knowing he didnt have to. If he hadnt wanted it, I think  this box wouldve been 
left blank (as the one for card protection was) and PPI wouldnt  have been  added to his 
account.
Mr W says the box for PPI was already marked with an x before he signed  it. But the whole 
application form was pre-populated. So I think its likely Halifaxs adviser went through  
everything with Mr W in the meeting and the form he signed reflected  the outcome of those 
discussions
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it needed to make sure it was right for him 
in his circumstances. I dont know what steps  Halifax took to do this. But, from what Ive 
seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time and the policy details Halifax has given us, I think 
it was right for him. I say this because:
Mr W qualified  that is, he was eligible  for the PPI. And he wouldnt have been caught 
by some  of the things  the policy didnt cover   like known health issues  or unusual 
employment arrangements.  So there was nothing to stop him claiming the full benefit of 
the policy  had he needed to.
Ref: DRN73539182Mr W says he got some sick pay but didnt  have any savings or other insurance policies 
he couldve used to make his card repayments  if things got difficult.  He also says he 
was living with his parents  at the time and so didnt  need the cover  because  he wasnt  
paying rent. But the PPI couldve helped with his card repayments for up to 10 months 
for each successful unemployment  claim Mr W made and for up to 12 months if he was 
off work  sick  which is longer than his sick pay wouldve  lasted (and it wouldve paid out 
on top of it) So I think the PPI still gave Mr W useful additional  protection.
I havent seen anything to make  me think the PPI was unaffordable for Mr W or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for him.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Halifax shouldve  given Mr W enough clear 
information about the PPI for him to decide  if he wanted to buy it. As before, I dont know  
what steps Halifax took to do this. Its possible  it didnt explain some things as clearly  as it 
shouldve done   like the true cost of the cover, what its benefits were  and what  it didnt 
cover. But, as Ive said, I think Mr W chose to take out the PPI and it was right for him in his 
circumstances. And so I think clearer information  would only have confirmed  this to him and 
wouldnt have made him change his mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7353918