K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited turned down his private  medical insurance 
claim. 
background
Mr J visited an optometrist who wasnt sure if he had macular degeneration.  Mr J therefore 
went to see an ophthalmologist who thought the problem was due to a previous minor upset 
in fluid transfer  across the retina.  The ophthalmologist didnt need to review Mr J again, but 
he wrote  to Mr Js GP to say Mr Js left eye had a few cholesterol emboli. He thought the GP 
may therefore want to arrange for a carotid doppler scan. 
Mr J wanted AXA to pay for the scan, however AXA refused to do so. It said the scan would 
be considered  preventive screening which isnt covered under the policy. It later changed its 
mind and said the scan was primary care treatment, which also isnt covered under the 
policy. Unhappy with this, Mr J brought  a complaint to this service. He paid for the scan 
himself. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2019. My findings were:
AXA has referred to the below policy term in turning down  this claim. 
What we do not pay for:

Any charges  for primary care services, such as any services that would typically  be 
carried out by a GP or dentist
AXA thought  it was clear that the scan was primary care treatment.  I disagree.  The scan 
wasnt carried out by Mr Js GP, and I havent seen any evidence  to suggest  a GP is able to 
carry out such a scan. I therefore disagree with AXA that the claim would fall under  this 
heading. 
I see that the policy doesnt cover  treatment (which includes diagnostic  tests) that the NHS  
can arrange within four weeks.  But I havent seen any evidence that the scan could have 
been arranged  within four weeks  under the NHS.  
The policy also explains  it doesnt cover  preventive  treatment or tests to establish  whether  a 
medical condition  is present  when there  are no apparent symptoms.  
Mr J had cholesterol emboli in his left eye. As I understand  it, cholesterol  emboli  in the eyes 
could mean  the presence of carotid  artery disease.  A carotid doppler is an ultrasound  scan 
that assesses the carotid arteries in the neck for narrowing.  
I dont think the scan  would be considered a preventive test. I say that because the 
cholesterol emboli was a symptom of carotid artery disease. 
Consequently, I think AXA should  have paid for the diagnostic  scan.  As Mr J has paid for the 
scan himself,  I intend to require AXA to reimburse him, plus interest.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make. 
Ref: DRN77095682Mr J accepted my provisional  findings.
AXA responded to say that Mr Js GP should have arranged for the scan to be performed by 
the NHS  at his local hospital, and the report from the scan would have been sent back to the 
GP to discuss the results with Mr J. AXA says this would be considered  primary care. It also 
says Mr J accepted the scan could have  been done under the NHS. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA says that Mr Js GP should  have arranged for the scan  to be performed at his local 
NHS hospital. This would  have been  considered  primary  care and would therefore  be 
excluded.
The exclusion upon which  AXA wishes to rely, says that primary care services  are services 
that would  typically  be carried out by a GP or dentist. Whilst I accept Mr Js GP could  have 
arranged for him to have the scan at his local NHS hospital, the GP wouldnt be able to 
actually carry out this scan.  I therefore remain of the opinion that the claim doesnt  fall under 
the exclusion. 
AXA also says Mr J accepted the scan could have  been arranged under the NHS. I also 
accept this, but that doesnt mean it falls under the primary care exclusion. And as Ive said 
in my provisional decision,  although  the policy  doesnt cover diagnostic  tests that can be 
arranged under the NHS within four weeks, I havent  seen any evidence that the scan could 
have been carried  out under the NHS  within this timeframe. 
Consequently, I remain satisfied that AXA should reimburse Mr J for the cost of the scan, 
plus interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to 
reimburse Mr J for the cost of the scan.  Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should  
be paid from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement*.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN7709568