K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Both Mr M and 
MYJAR have said that they have nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
It follows that I dont think that Mr Ms borrowing pattern was such  that MYJAR should 
reasonably have concluded  he was dependent upon its lending. And I dont think 
proportionate checks would have suggested that his borrowing was unsustainable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77500472EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that MYJAR Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M was given five loans  by MYJAR between December 2017 and October 2018. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in three  monthly instalments.  Mr M has successfully repaid each of the loans 
and a summary of his borrowing from MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 01/12/2017 20/02/2018 £ 300
2 23/02/2018 18/05/2018 £ 400
3 28/05/2018 20/08/2018 £ 350
4 07/09/2018 20/10/2018 £ 300
5 20/10/2018 29/01/2019 £ 600
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  MYJAR had been 
wrong to give the first three loans to Mr M. But he thought  that Mr Ms pattern of borrowing should  
have indicated to MYJAR that it shouldnt have given Mr M the last two loans. So he asked MYJAR to 
pay Mr M some  compensation.
MYJAR didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr M could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN77500473There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income, and his normal 
expenditure. And it checked Mr Ms credit file before each loan. Ive seen a summary of the results of 
those credit checks and they dont show anything that I think should  have caused additional concerns  
to the lender.
I think  that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr M needed  to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time,  and his 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable  before 
agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr M asked for loan 5, that MYJAR should have realised  that it couldnt  safely  
rely on the information  he was providing  about his finances. I think it should  have taken  steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Ms true financial  position. So Ive looked  carefully at Mr Ms bank  
statements to see what better checks would have shown the lender.
Mr Ms bank  statements dont show any obvious signs of financial problems  such  as large numbers of 
outstanding short term loans, unpaid  transactions, or other problems  such  as excessive spending  on 
things like gambling.  I can see that Mr M had been using other  short term lenders shortly before 
taking his final loan from MYJAR.  But all those loans  had been repaid in the days  before he took this 
loan. I think it is possible  that Mr M was using his last loan from MYJAR to consolidate some of his 
other borrowing.  So I dont  think better checks would have led MYJAR to conclude it shouldnt give 
this loan to Mr M either.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ms pattern of borrowing, in the lead up to loan 4, should have led 
MYJAR to conclude that it shouldnt agree that loan. But I dont agree. By the time Mr M asked for 
loan 4 hed taken three instalment loans that were  each  due to be repaid over a three month period. 
He made the repayments on those  loans  as scheduled.  So I dont think the fact that hed been 
borrowing from MYJAR for around  nine months at that time should have  caused enough  concern  to 
lead the lender  to conclude Mr M was dependent  on its lending.
I have considered that Mr M repaid loan 4 much  earlier  than planned.  And that he asked to take 
another, much larger,  loan on the same day. And I do think that behaviour  should have started  to 
cause some concerns  about his financial  position.  But I simply think the concerns  at that time would 
have meant  that MYJAR  needed to do more  checks,  rather  than decline Mr Ms loan request on his 
pattern of borrowing alone.
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont think that his borrowing pattern  
was such that MYJAR should reasonably have concluded he was dependent upon its lending.  And 
I dont think proportionate checks would have suggested that his borrowing was unsustainable. 
Ref: DRN7750047