K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Heritage Health  Limited mis-sold her private medical insurance .
background
In March 2018, Mrs C consulted Heritage Health (her broker)  as shed received a renewal 
quote for her private medical insurance  and due to the price,  she said she wanted to explore 
the market.
Heritage Health provided her with a quote  for her existing insurer and another  (cheaper 
quote) for a new insurer. Her broker said shed need to answer some questions  if she was 
considering changing insurer. Mrs C answered the questions and explained that her 
husband had a previous  medical issue that may need further  treatment. She set out that 
theyd want this further treatment covered under any new policy  and that it needed  to take 
place with his current surgeon at a certain hospital. The broker confirmed this would be 
possible under  the new insurance,  so Mrs C took out the cover.
Unfortunately in July 2018, Mrs C was diagnosed  with breast cancer. She contacted her 
insurer about treatment.  At this time she says she realised she was insured with a different 
company to what she expected, Health-on-Line who had links to another insurer, AXA  
rather than being  insured  with AXA directly. She was unhappy that Heritage Health hadnt 
made this clear to her and that this was also not clear on her paperwork.
When Mrs C went to have treatment, she wasnt covered for the full cost of treatment with 
the surgeon of her choice. Neither  he nor the hospital he worked  in were included under  her 
policy (she wanted  to go back to a surgeon  shed previously been treated  under).  Mrs C was 
also unhappy about this, as she said Heritage Health had sold the policy to her on a like-for-
like basis with her old cover. She said the benefits  offered were not the same,  as she could 
now only choose from two local hospitals  for fully funded treatment.
Mrs C has also complained about  delays in important information being provided to her in a 
time-sensitive situation. Shes set out how Heritage Health was looking into whether a 
procedure would be covered or whether she needed  to contribute (due to the above issues),  
but she didnt  hear back. Mrs C feels shes been  sold an inferior  product that shouldnt have 
been recommended  to her. And that due to Heritage Healths  actions shes  now locked in 
with Health-on-Line,  which due to other  issues, she doesnt want to be.
Heritage Health provided a £1,000 contribution  towards Mrs Cs treatment as a gesture of 
goodwill for the difficult time experienced by her. However it doesnt  agree it mis-sold the 
policy. It said that the cover is like-for-like  in terms of core benefits  and that it offered what  
Mrs C requested at the time of sale  cover for her husband at a certain hospital with a 
particular consultant. 
Heritage Health said that Mrs C was authorised  to have her desired  treatment, the only issue 
was whether she had it in a recognised facility or contributed  to the cost herself to have it 
elsewhere. It said she was given the option  to have it in a fully covered facility. It also 
considered the paperwork  was clear  that it was a Health-on-Line  policy, underwritten by 
AXA, so it didnt think Mrs C had been mis-led on this point. It said it had given Mrs C the 
information she needed, that the product was comparable, and her focus was on cost at the 
time of sale,  so it provided a product that met her requirements.
Ref: DRN77972622Mrs C brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt 
think Heritage Health had mis-sold the policy to Mrs C. She said that the policy 
documentation had enabled Mrs C to access the full list of hospitals provided  and that this 
was available  to Mrs C during the time in which she could cancel. And she didnt agree the 
policy was unsuitable  considering Mrs Cs successful claims under the policy.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators outcome, so the complaint has been  passed to me 
for a final decision.  Mrs C said there wasnt any discussion around the severe reduction in 
the list of hospitals available under the new policy. And that she was under the impression 
she was transferring to AXA, which all her paperwork suggested  meaning she didnt 
realise the restrictions having  a Health-on-Line policy had on her cover.  Its worth  noting 
that Mrs C does also have  a complaint against  Health-on-Line/AXA, but this decision only 
deals with the issues she had with Heritage Health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the emails  between Mrs C and Heritage Health, to see what was discussed 
when she took out the policy. While  I acknowledge  that Heritage Health didnt point out the 
list of hospitals  covered  by Health-on-Lines policy, I also cant see that this is something Mrs 
C requested. While Heritage Healths  role was as a professional in terms of the medical 
insurance market, this doesnt mean  it was expected to know  every detail about every  policy  
by heart.  Its role was to consider what Mrs C was telling  it and make  a suitable 
recommendation based on this information  and by asking  key questions. 
I fully appreciate why Mrs C wanted to use the particular consultant  she selected when she 
discovered her breast cancer. But this wasnt a foreseeable event. So neither she nor the 
broker knew she would, unfortunately, need  to re-visit this consultant and require his 
expertise. At the time of sale, Heritage Health knew about Mrs Cs husbands requirements 
and that she wanted like-for-like cover. I understand  the broker took this to mean 
comparable physical cover for Mrs C and her husband, rather than all aspects of the policy 
being exactly the same. I dont think this is unreasonable,  considering this is often the key 
focus of most consumers  when moving between  insurers  for this type of cover. And, 
excluding her husbands condition, there werent  any on-going  issues  at the policy inception 
which suggested a reduced hospital list would be a problem. 
As Mrs C only specified one consultant and hospital  that she wanted to be covered, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Heritage Health to just check these. I appreciate  why the 
reduced hospital list became important to Mrs C, but I dont think this is the type of key 
information Id expect her broker  to have provided upfront in this case.  This information is 
included in the policy information  (which  gives a link to her policys website), meaning Mrs C 
couldve found this out. I also note that this policy was cheaper than Mrs Cs existing  cover, 
which I consider should  have  given  some indication that identical cover  wouldnt be 
provided. So I dont  think Heritage Health mis-sold  this policy  by not pointing  this information 
out to her. 
Ref: DRN77972623Ive reviewed the information provided  to Mrs C by Heritage Health about who was providing 
her policy.  I think  its important to reiterate here that Im only looking at the actions of her 
broker, not Health-on-Line. I have already determined  in Mrs Cs case against Health-on-
Line that the paperwork was sufficiently  clear. When Heritage Health first suggested Health-
on-Line to Mrs C, it did say that the policy was offered by AXA on the Health For You  
scheme. AXA does provide the insurance for this policy, so this information is accurate. And 
I think the wording makes it clear theres  another scheme involved in the cover,  which could 
have prompted  Mrs C to look into this further  if this. So I dont think Heritage Health needed  
to do anything more  in terms of making the provider  clear.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7797262