K821x#15complaint
Mrs F is complaining that a hire purchase  agreement she entered into with FCE Bank Plc 
(FCE) was unaffordable. She doesnt  think FCE did enough checks  to assess whether  she 
could afford  it.
Mrs F is represented  by her father in this complaint. But for ease of reference  I shall refer to 
any representations he made as being  made by Mrs F.
background
In November 2016 Mrs F entered into a hire purchase agreement with FCE to acquire a car. 
The finance  was for around £19,000  to be paid over 36 months. Mrs F was paying  around 
£310 per month to repay  it.
In October  2017 Mrs F contacted FCE to say that she couldnt  afford  to keep up with her 
repayments and asked what her options were. FCE responded to give her the following 
options:
1.She could voluntary  terminate the agreement, but shed have  to pay half the finance;
2.She could part exchange the car and use the funds to take out a new finance agreement;
3.She could sell the car and use the proceeds of this to pay off the remaining finance.
Mrs F sold the car back  to the dealership and she says her father paid off the remaining 
finance of £2,391.64. And she says she replaced the car with a used car with her fathers  
financial help.
Mrs F then complained to FCE that it sold her a loan that wasnt  affordable. She said that 
she had other debts to repay and was on a low income. So she says FCE should  have 
known that she couldnt have afforded  the loan.
FCE was satisfied that it did sufficient checks on whether  Mrs F could afford  the loan when 
she applied  for it. And it said that the credit  worthiness checks  it carried out suggested she 
could afford  it.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Mrs F doesnt think FCE did enough  checks to assess  whether she could afford the monthly  
repayments. And she says that had it done  so it would have realised she couldnt  afford  it. 
FCE said that the checks it carried out suggested  that Mrs F could afford  the loan.
When Mrs F applied for the finance,  FCE was required to carry out proportionate checks  to 
assess whether she could afford to keep up with the monthly  repayments.  In this decision,  
Ive looked at whether FCE did enough  to assess  whether Mr F could afford  to keep up with 
the monthly repayments.
I think the starting point  in assessing  this complaint has to be looking at the guidelines the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) set out in its rules  the Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook 
(CONC). In this the FCA has said that the extent and scope of the creditworthiness 
assessment needs  to be proportionate to the individual circumstances of each case. So I 
think the checks FCE would need to do would  be different for a loan of £2,000 as opposed to 
a loan of around  £20,000  (as in this case).
Ref: DRN76565252CONC sets out that there's no requirement  to do an income and expenditure form if it's 
obvious in the circumstances of the particular case that the customer is able to make 
repayments. But it also says that if a firm chooses  to not do an income  and expenditure 
assessment "it should keep in mind that the burden  would be on the firm to demonstrate, if 
challenged, that the absence of a material affordability risk was obvious such as to make  the 
process of determination  or estimation of the customer's income disproportionate".
In assessing Mrs Fs creditworthiness, FCE reviewed her credit file and it was satisfied from 
this that she could keep up with the monthly  repayments. But I havent seen anything to 
show that it did any more  checks than these, such as carry out an income and expenditure 
assessment. 
Ive looked at Mrs Fs credit file and at the time she had a credit card account and another  
loan. And there werent any adverse markers on her credit file. But I think  £310  is a fairly 
significant monthly financial commitment. And the overall loan amount of £19,000 was 
substantial. 
Ive thought of the significant  financial commitment  Mrs F was taking  on under this 
agreement, and (considering the relevant  guidance  in CONC) Im not persuaded that the 
checks FCE did were  proportionate. I dont think it would have been clear from just reviewing 
her credit file that she could have kept up with that repayment. Although  there are no set 
requirements as to what a lender should take into account, I think  in this case  it would have 
been reasonable for FCE to look more  closely at Mrs Fs financial situation in this case, for 
example her income  and outgoings.
However, from reviewing Mrs Fs financial circumstances at the time I think  its likely that 
FCE would  have still concluded that she could  have kept up with her monthly  repayments.  
The adjudicator has reviewed Mrs Fs bank statements from the time and concluded that, 
taking into account  the money coming in from her salary and childcare benefit and essential 
spending going out, she had a disposable  income of around  £481.
I note Mrs F doesnt think we should  take into account her childcare  benefit  as its not given 
to cover debts. But this is money that she was receiving to cover her day to day expenses. 
And FCE is entitled to take this into account when assessing whether a loan is affordable  or 
not.
However, while I think it was fair for the adjudicator  to account the money received from 
childcare benefits, she hasnt taken into account the amount Mrs F had to spend on 
childcare costs. At the time Mrs F had a seven year old son and shes told us that she was 
spending on average around £70 per month on petrol to get him to and from school and 
around 130 per month on average on general  costs  e.g. school lunches, after school clubs  
and clothing. I dont think that this seems an unreasonable amount and isnt out of line with 
what Id expect.
Further to this, the adjudicator has only assumed that Mrs F was going  to be paying  her 
minimum payment on her credit  card.  But this isnt a sustainable option in the long-term  and 
its likely  that Mrs F was going to have  to start paying more than the minimum payment 
within a short period of time. Taking all this into account, I think  the amount of disposable 
income available to Mrs F at the time was considerably less than what  the adjudicator  
suggested. And, in addition  to the financial commitment of maintaining the finance  out of this 
Ref: DRN76565253income she would also have had other reasonable lifestyle expenses that people ordinarily 
will have.
Ultimately, had FCE done all the checks that it should have reasonably  done  when it offered 
to lend to Mrs F, I think it would have realised  that Mrs F would have struggled to keep up 
with the monthly  repayments in the long-term. And, had it done  so, I think  it wouldnt have 
provided the finance to Mrs F. I also think Mrs F has lost out because of this.
So I said I intended to require FCE to do the following to put things right:
Had FCE not lent the money to Mrs F, she wouldnt have had to repay anything  under the 
agreement. However,  she was able to use the car, so I think  she should  pay for the time she 
was able to use it. 
I can see that FCE didnt  charge Mrs F any interest  on the agreement.  So I think the fairest 
way to resolve this complaint is to say that Mrs F should only have  to pay what she paid 
towards the finance up to the point  she handed  the car back. 
When Mrs F handed  the car back,  she was left with £2,391.64 to pay (after the car was sold 
and the proceeds  of sale applied to the outstanding  finance)  which I understand was paid 
off. I think  its unfair for FCE to retain  that payment and I think it should refund this and add 
8% simple  interest on this amount  from the date it was paid until she gets it back. 
Mrs F got into financial difficulties in paying  off the finance. It follows  that she wouldnt have 
done so had FCE not offered the finance  to her. So I also think  FCE should remove any 
adverse from her credit file.
Mrs F received a £700 contribution from the supplying dealership towards  the finance when 
she first acquired the car. Ive thought about  whether FCE should refund this, but I dont 
think thats fair in the specific circumstances of this complaint. Mrs F didnt replace the car 
with another new car, but a used car. And I understand  this type of contribution  is typically 
only available when  buying a new car.  
However, when she entered into this finance  agreement, she ended a previous finance 
agreement. There  was still an amount of £280  outstanding on that previous finance when it 
was ended, which was added to the finance  agreement with FCE. And I think Mrs F still 
needs to pay this. But part of her monthly repayments would have been contributing to 
paying this off. Mrs F made 12 payments out of the 36 payments she was contracted to 
make. So, in effect, I think shed paid £93.33 towards the £280 from her previous finance 
agreement  and still had £186.67  left to pay. And I think she still needs to pay this. But FCE 
can offset this against the amount it owes her.
FCE didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs F said she wasnt  financially in a position 
to terminate the contract earlier. So she asked  that some element of the payments she made 
can be included in the compensation I award.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN76565254As neither party has given  me anything further  to think  about  whether the finance  was 
affordable or not, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion  to the one I reached  in my 
provisional decision. So I uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision.
I note that Mrs F says that she wasnt financially in a position to settle  the finance sooner 
than she did. So shes asked that I include some of the payments she made  in the redress  I 
award. I appreciate  that she was in a difficult situation and maintaining the monthly  
payments was challenging. But she did have use of the car and used  it for the entire time 
she had it. So I still think its fair she pays for the time she used it. And I havent seen 
anything to make me conclude that the way I suggested FCE should  settle  this claim was 
unreasonable. So Im awarding the same  redress as I awarded in in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require FCE Bank Plc to do the following to compensate  Mrs F:
1.Refund the £2,391.64  that was paid when she ended the agreement and handed the car 
back and add 8% simple interest  on this amount from the date it was paid until she gets 
it back *;
2.Remove any adverse  markers from her credit  file;
3.It can deduct £186.67 from what it owes her to reflect the outstanding balance from the 
previous finance  agreement.
*If FCE thinks  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs F how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs F a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656525