K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  25 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether I can rely fully on everything 
they remember. 
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M say they were told that PPI wasnt required to get the mortgage  but that, if 
they did take it, they would be seen as responsible. So they took the PPI as they didnt want  
to risk being  declined for the mortgage. 
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy,  even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  having. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative  to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it 
wouldnt be fair to say Bank of Scotland did something wrong  in this way, unless  I had 
stronger evidence of this. 
Ive checked other  ways  in which the PPI might have been mis-sold, but I dont think  these 
apply. Ill explain why. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
Ref: DRN73827482mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  And it looks  to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms situation  at the 
time: 
Its likely  Mr M (the person  covered  by this policy) was eligible for the policy.  
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr M received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs M would  need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage  and other  living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs M in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income  due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr M would 
have been affected  by any of these
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs M took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits  were 
greater than Mr Ms sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt  significantly high.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have  been  affected by any of these. And theyd  be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation  
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7382748