K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited gave him incorrect information 
about a service guarantee for a tumble dryer that hed bought from it. His wife is also 
involved with his complaint. 
background
Mr M used  his shopping account with Shop Direct  to buy a tumble  dryer  for £229 in 
December 2015.  The tumble dryer had a twelve month warranty and Mr M paid £43 for a 
service guarantee  for the two years after that. He says that the tumble dryer broke down in 
January 2017  and that he contacted Shop Direct  but was told that the warranty  had expired 
and that it couldnt do anything to help him. He contacted the manufacturer and it agreed  to 
provide him with some replacement parts. Mr M paid for repairs to the tumble dryer but it still 
didnt work  properly so he bought a replacement.
He says that he received a renewal letter from Shop Direct in December 2018  because the 
service guarantee  was ending. He complained to Shop Direct that it had given incorrect  
information to him in January 2017.  It said that it had reviewed all phone calls on his account 
within that period  but was unable to locate any call in which hed asked  about  the guarantee 
or was told that it had expired. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this 
service. Shop Direct  then offered to refund to Mr M the £43 that hed paid for the service 
guarantee.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that, whilst 
there was no evidence of a call to Shop  Direct, she didnt believe that that ruled out that a 
call took place - and she said that Mr M and his wife arranged their own repairs which she 
thought evidenced that they believed that they didnt  have any cover in place after checking 
with the manufacturer.
She recommended that Shop Direct  should  pay Mr M £229 (which was the cost of the dryer 
he bought in December 2015) and £60 for the repairs costs that he and his wife had paid. 
She also recommended that it should pay Mr M compensation of £100 for the inconvenience  
caused.
Shop Direct has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
its process is to record calls and annotate  accounts when receiving  phone  contact 
from a consumer to ensure an accurate  audit  trail is recorded and it would  expect to 
locate a copy of a call recording  and to see notes  that have been captured  on the 
account with regards to the nature of the call - but neither of that has been located  
concerning the call in which Mr M says that he was informed that the tumble dryer 
was out of warranty;
theres no evidence  of any independent report being received to show  that the tumble 
dryer was defective or that Mr M reported  it as being defective;
Mr M contacted it about  the service guarantee after he received the renewal letter 
which suggests that he may have forgotten he bought the guarantee  and it would 
not have had the opportunity to put right any issues with the tumble dryer; and
its willing to offer a refund of the £43 that Mr M paid for the service guarantee but 
does not agree to refund the cost of the dryer,  repair costs  or compensation. 
Ref: DRN73992862my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Shop  Direct on 15 April 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The tumble dryer broke-down just over a year after it had been bought by Mr M  
and by then the warranty  had expired. But Mr M had also bought  a service guarantee 
for two years  after the warranty  expired  which would  cover  repair  or replacement  of 
the tumble dryer.
Mr M says that he phoned Shop Direct in January 2017 and was told that the 
warranty had expired and that it couldnt  do anything to help him. The manufacturer 
provided some replacement parts and he paid for repairs  but the tumble dryer still 
wasnt working properly  so he bought a replacement. 
Shop Direct says that it records calls and annotates  accounts with a note about the 
nature of calls from its customers  but theres nothing on its accounts records for 
Mr M to show that he phoned  it around  that time about his tumble dryer. If Mr M had 
phoned it, I consider  it to be more likely than not that it would  have discussed  the 
service guarantee  with him.
I assume that Mr M had forgotten that he had bought the service guarantee until he 
received the renewal letter  about  it in December 2018. Otherwise it would be 
reasonable to expect  that he would have discussed  the service  guarantee with Shop 
Direct and made a claim under it because of the issues with his tumble dryer.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Mr M phoned Shop 
Direct about the service guarantee or that he made a claim to it under the guarantee. 
I sympathise with him for the issues that hes experienced with the tumble dryer and 
for the costs that hes incurred that might have been  covered by the service 
guarantee if hed made a claim under it. But Im not persuaded that theres  enough 
evidence to show that Shop Direct  has acted  incorrectly. And I consider that its offer 
to refund to Mr M the £43 that he paid for the service guarantee is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
So subject to any further representations by Mr M, his wife or Shop Direct, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Mr Ms wife, on his behalf, says that Mr M accepts my provisional decision.  Shop Direct says 
that, as the two year extended  warranty was in force in January  2017, if Mr M had contacted 
it at that point, he would have been  advised to claim under the warranty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN73992863my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and I 
order Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited  to refund to Mr M the £43 that he paid for the 
service guarantee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7399286