K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with the registration of a Power  of 
Attorney.
background
Mrs B appointed her daughter as her attorney under a Power of Attorney. She wanted her 
daughter to be able to look after her finances  if, in the future, she became unable to carry on 
doing so herself.  As Mrs B has an account  with Santander, she and her daughter made an 
appointment to register the Power of Attorney with them. 
Mrs B says that the advisor they saw wasnt knowledgeable about Powers of Attorney or the 
form they needed to complete. Some weeks later, Santander sent Mrs Bs bank statement to 
her daughter. Her daughter opened  it, believing it to be a letter about her own Santander 
account. As a result, she has seen Mrs Bs bank balance. Mrs B is very upset and angry 
about this and says it has caused  a rift between  her and her daughter.  Although Mrs B had 
appointed her daughter under a Power of Attorney, she didnt want  it to take effect unless 
and until she couldnt deal with her finances herself.
Mrs B contacted Santander and they explained  that its not possible to defer the 
arrangement - once  it has been set up, it starts  immediately. Mrs B says they didnt tell her 
this at the appointment and that shed made it clear it was being  set up in case it was 
needed in the future.  Mrs B also says that Santander didnt ask her where  she wanted 
statements to be sent. When Mrs B complained, Santander upheld  her complaint and 
apologised that their process  hadnt been explained at the time. They paid Mrs B 
compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience the situation had caused. And 
theyve now removed Mrs Bs daughter from the account. 
But Mrs B wasnt  happy  with Santanders  response  so she brought  her complaint to this 
service. She didnt think the compensation was enough because  she and her daughter are 
still upset. Our investigator  thought that Santander  had dealt with the complaint fairly  and 
didnt ask them to do any more. 
But Mrs B says that Santander let her down badly  by not explaining how they would deal 
with the Power  of Attorney. Even though they have now removed her daughter  from the 
account, she says the damage has already been done and that her relationship with her 
daughter isnt the same. Because  Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view,  the 
complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander accept  that they didnt explain to Mrs B that the Power  of Attorney  arrangement 
would take effect  straight away. Mrs B says they also didnt ask where she wanted  her 
statements to be sent once they had registered  the arrangement.  Santander havent 
commented on that specifically. But Mrs B clearly  feels very strongly that the information in 
her bank statements  is private and she didnt want her daughter to be party  to it. So, if the 
question had been asked at the appointment, Im satisfied that Mrs B would have asked  
Santander to keep sending statements to her and not to send them to her daughter.
Ref: DRN71900332But Santander sent Mrs Bs statement to her daughter. As a result,  her daughter  has 
become aware  of Mrs Bs bank balance and this has caused problems between  them.  
Mrs B is also unhappy with the service she received at the appointment to register  the Power  
of Attorney. She says the advisor  wasnt  knowledgeable and that, now she knows that the 
documentation will need to be completed  again if and when the Power of Attorney needs to 
be used, she realises the appointment  was a waste of time.
Santander have  apologised  and paid compensation of £100. But Mrs B says that doesnt  
reflect the upset  which has been  caused.  So I need  to consider the appropriate level of 
compensation here. Its very difficult to put a monetary value on the stress and upset caused 
by a situation like this. Our awards  arent intended to punish  a business but to reflect the 
impact a situations had on a customer  and put that right, so far as possible.
Mrs B has explained how the situations  affected her. Even though Santander have  
apologised and removed  her daughter from the account, she says the damage has already 
been done and that the relationship with her daughter is unlikely to be the same  again. This 
is extremely upsetting  for Mrs B and means  that the effects of what  happened are ongoing.
But I have to be impartial, so Ive considered what Mrs B has said in the context  of the 
situation as a whole. Its unfortunate that the process wasnt  fully explained to Mrs B at the 
appointment. But I dont think it was foreseeable  that the consequences of the Power  of 
Attorney taking effect straight away would be so significant or distressing for Mrs B and her 
daughter. So I dont think Santander  are responsible for all the upset which has been caused  
here. I realise this will be disappointing  for Mrs B but, taking everything into account, I think  
the amount of compensation already paid by Santander is fair. So Im not going to ask them  
to do any more here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7190033