K820x#14complaint
This complaint has been with us for a while. Its about several issues  concerning a credit  
card account  Mr F had with Lloyds  Bank  PLC. 
It seems  he originally took out the card in 1993. Mr F was also sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) which insured him against  losing  his job or being  unable to work.
Mr F thinks he was mis-sold the PPI policy. He also thinks Lloyds continued the operation of 
the PPI policy  after he reached the age of 65, which means it wasnt of much use to him.
background
Im very sorry Mr Fs complaint has taken so long to get before an ombudsman to make a 
final decision. There are quite few reasons for this, not least that his complaint needed to 
await the conclusion  of a legal case about PPI complaints similar  to Mr Fs.
Nevertheless, I can see a number of our adjudicators have been in touch with Mr F to say 
his mis-sale complaint  isnt one wed be likely to uphold. I also note that some time ago Mr F 
was paid back some money by Lloyds. This was for part of the commission Lloyds got from 
selling him PPI. New rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) mean  Mr F is 
due some of the commission money  back.
I can see Lloyds has also offered Mr F £100  for the distress and inconvenience caused 
mainly around timeliness and its handling of his complaint.
Mr F still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place and hes asked that his complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman. Im therefore  now making a final decision on his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs mis-sale  complaint.
Mr F originally complained that he was mis-sold a PPI policy with his credit card in 1993. To 
summarise the many  letters and emails  that circulated regarding the original sale,  our 
adjudicators who looked over his complaint at various points all basically said they didnt 
think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. I agree with this.
Mr Fs main points  of complaint are that he has no recollection of ever agreeing  to PPI and 
wasnt given any option. He supports his allegations by saying he didnt  need  this type of 
protection and as a rule he doesnt take out insurance policies like this.
I certainly dont doubt that Mr F genuinely and honestly feels this way now about the PPI. 
But Im afraid what Ive seen does  show its much more likely he agreed to buy the cover.
I say this because  we were sent his original credit  card application form. Its very clear,  in 
my view, that PPI is an optional product  on the form and that the consumer doesnt need to 
Ref: DRN71299812have if they dont want to. I say this because there are two obvious choices set out on the 
form  one to have PPI; and one to decline it. Mr Fs form has a tick next to the statement 
which says If you do want  credit  card protection insurance tick here.
Directly below there is an option  which says If you do not want  credit  card protection 
insurance tick here. I note this box isnt ticked.  Mr F went on to sign the form so I think this 
shows he asked for the PPI to be added and Lloyds properly obtained his consent.
However, I can see further evidence that Mr F probably wanted  this type of protection. This 
evidence is contained  in several  years  worth of his credit card statements. These regularly 
show that he was being charged  for Payments  Insurance Premium. As well as being 
clear, these charges  seem to be sustained over a long time period. So I think if Mr F hadnt 
ever asked for the cover, he would have wanted  to know what the charges were  for.
I also note that some  changes to the policy rules occurred in the many years Mr F had the 
PPI. In my experience, this would have caused  the insurer to write to Mr F. He says he may 
have treated such letters as junk mail.
Ive thought carefully about all this. And Im afraid I think theres comprehensive and 
compelling evidence  that Mr F agreed to the cover. I think he would have  known at the time 
that he had a choice and the evidence strongly shows he would have had an ongoing 
awareness of having the PPI. 
Having made my decision that Mr F properly agreed to the PPI, Ill go onto to consider the 
other aspects of his complaint. He says he had a good job with good benefits  and so didnt 
need the PPI.
I agree  he would have undoubtedly had reasonably good sickness  benefits with his job. But 
this doesnt make the PPI to be of no use. We see many consumers with jobs similar to 
Mr Fs who agreed to PPI, just as he did. And Ive seen  nothing that makes the PPI 
unsuitable for him. We know,  for example, that he was eligible for the cover when he signed  
the agreement  to take it out. Also, theres nothing to suggest he would have been caught 
by any of the major exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. 
The cost of the policy seems in line - and comparable with - similar ones sold during that 
period and Ive seen  nothing that suggests  the cost was unaffordable for him. The policy 
would have also paid off 10% of his existing balance every  month  in the event his needing 
to make a claim and this could have lasted for up to a year. These things would  have been  
in addition to any work-related benefits Mr F already  enjoyed.  Ive considered Mr Fs 
submissions broadly suggesting  he manages  his finances responsibly. I can see that he 
does, but of course, it adds nothing to whether or not he agreed to the PPI. The evidence 
strongly shows he did.
So I dont  think that any recommendation to have PPI was unreasonable.  The cover  was 
designed to cope with unexpected circumstances and I think it was suitable for Mr F.
Ref: DRN71299813Lloyds also had to provide  information that was clear. After  some 26 years,  Im unlikely to 
see much  evidence of that. But I think hed have  been given something  explaining  the policy 
rules and as Ive said, he was sent information  in the subsequent  years which  didnt cause 
Mr F to stop the cover.
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold in 1993.
This brings  us to his policy continuing  beyond  him reaching 65 years of age. Mr F had 
already operated the policy for around  17 years  when he turned that age. But Lloyds agreed 
the policy should have stopped at that point. So its returned him the money  he paid, with 
interest from 2011 onwards. Its also offered him £100 further compensation as it took too 
long to sort this out. In my view, this is fair.
Finally, as Ive said, in accordance with recently  issued  FCA guidelines,  Lloyds has paid him 
the commission element  it is required to pay. 
I can see Mr F feels strongly  about his dealings  with Lloyds. Even until recently hes been  
asking us to get Lloyds  to explain why it did certain  things or made certain comments.  I 
understand and sympathise hes frustrated by the time its taken to get the answers he 
wants. But Im afraid us acting as a go-between isnt, in my view,  likely to be helpful any 
more. Now Ive issued  my final decision Id therefore respectfully suggest that any further 
administration complaints about his account  are taken  up directly by him with Lloyds. Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr F but our involvement is at an end.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about the policy  being  mis-
sold to him in 1993. 
However I understand Mr F has already received  a payment from Lloyds in respect of the 
commission which was over 50% of the policy premium. 
Additionally, I note Lloyds has also paid Mr F for the PPI premiums charged  to him after he 
reached 65 years of age together with an offer of £100. 
I think these outcomes are fair. So I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7129981