K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the settlement paid to them  by Covea  Insurance Plc in 
respect of their home  insurance  claim for water damage to their property. 
background
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs G made a claim to Covea following a leak from behind a WC 
which damaged  that room  and the room  below. They also had a separate  bathroom, the 
flooring in which needed to be replaced. Covea sent out a drying  company to assess  what 
was needed. After discussions with Mr and Mrs G they said they wanted their contractors to 
do the stripping  out and repairs. They were concerned about their bathroom being out of use 
during the drying process in respect  of Coveas proposals.
Mr and Mrs G provided an estimate  from their contractors. They  couldnt  find a replacement  
for the vanity unit in the WC room. As they had purchased  matching  sets cover with their 
policy, they said that the bathroom and WC suites were all part of a matching set. So they 
claimed for the items  in both rooms. Covea said that the items  in the bathroom werent 
damaged and because they were in separate rooms  they werent part of a matching set. It 
made what it assessed was a payment  excluding  those  items. the final payment was 
£3130.25 net of the excess.  Subsequently it realised that the excess had been deducted 
twice and it refunded  that to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G pointed out that they hadnt been  reimbursed for the electricity used in drying  
out the property.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that there was no matching set between the 
bathroom and WC. They were in separate rooms and in accordance with our approach these 
didnt form a matching  set.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They pointed out that theyd agreed  to have the work done by 
their contractors as they had concerns  about  their bathroom being out of action with Coveas 
proposals. They also pointed to the fact that Covea had made  a number of errors which had 
to be corrected. They didnt agree  that the items  werent all part of a matching set. They  said 
there was nothing in their policy  to say that the items had to be in the same room.  Theyd  
paid an extra premium  especially to cover any matching sets, but now were  having to fund 
the extra items themselves. If the bathroom  and WC didnt match  they felt it would  devalue  
their property. They further pointed out that theyd acted responsibly and Covea had had 
considerable savings in not having  to pay for alternative accommodation  or the moving and 
packing of their contents.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
matching sets
The set in this case consists  of the bathroom  suite (which  was undamaged) and the WC 
suite where the vanity unit was damaged. Despite extensive enquiries by them,  
Ref: DRN77173952Mr and Mrs G couldnt  find a matching replacement. So the whole suite  needed to be 
replaced. They believed  this should include the bathroom suite.
Mr and Mrs G had matching set replacement cover  in their policy.  Our approach  to matching 
sets is generally that a policyholder should  be compensated if there is an obvious  mismatch, 
so a part of a suite in the same room would clearly be mismatched if just one part was 
replaced. I can understand  the desire for the items to be matching throughout the house, but 
I dont think that items in different  rooms form part of a set. The same  principle  would apply 
to carpets or furniture  in different rooms where  there  is a clear divide and/or barrier between  
the rooms.. So I think Covea acted reasonably in not offering payment for the items in the 
bathroom.
I do note that Mr and Mrs G saved costs, by using  spare tiles, not staying  in a hotel which 
was offered to them and by packing and moving  contents items themselves. Saving costs on 
a claim doesnt just benefit the insurer. This shouldnt be looked at in isolation. The less a 
claim costs  the less will be marked  against  the consumers insurance record, which  may 
have an effect  on future  premiums. And savings on one part of the claim doesnt  mean  that 
another part of the claim should  be paid if it isnt covered. 
errors in the claim
I understand that the settlement was increased several times following protests by 
Mr and Mrs G. In particular the whole dining room ceiling was assessed as needing to be 
replaced. Coveas  contractors reduced this to a patch repair only. This had to be corrected 
later. Mr and Mrs G further noted  that the excess had been deducted twice which  wasnt 
noticed until Covea  passed its papers to this service. Mr and Mrs G also pointed out that 
Covea couldnt  deal with the strip out and drying  without  the bathroom  being out of action so 
they had to use their own contractors.
I accept that errors in the claims settlement were annoying but I do further note that these 
were resolved. When a cash settlement is to be paid the insurer  needs to assess it and there 
will often  be some give and take in the negotiations. I think the final settlement paid was 
reasonable.
With regard to the proposed repairs, Coveas contractors did note that Mr and Mrs G wanted 
to stay in the property  so they proposed a drying  schedule specifically to enable  the 
bathroom to be used. Mr and Mrs G preferred to use their own contractors but I think  this 
was by agreement, they werent required to do so.
Ive noted that Covea  has made a payment in reimbursement of the electricity  costs in drying 
out.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2020.
Ref: DRN77173953Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7717395