K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim under 
his buildings and contents policy.
background
Whilst a shower cubicle was being  fitted  in Mr Ws bathroom, damage to the floorboards and 
joists was discovered when his existing  bath was removed. 
Mr W made a claim to RSA under his buildings and contents policy for the cost of the repair  
work. RSAs  surveyor inspected the damage. The report concluded that a pipe beneath  the 
bath had leaked and the damage had been caused  by rot. 
As a result RSA declined  Mr Ws claim. It explained that damage caused by rot was 
excluded under the terms of his policy. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint. She explained why she thought RSA 
hadnt done anything wrong  in declining the claim.  Mr W didnt agree with her assessment, 
so the case has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr W is upset that RSA declined his insurance  claim. I need to decide if it 
was reasonable  of it do so. I think it was and Ill explain why.
Insurance policies  such  as Mr Ws dont necessarily  cover  all events that might  give rise to a 
claim. Its not unusual  for policies of this type to exclude  certain  events and damage.  And its 
up to an insurer to decide what risks it is prepared to cover and those that its not. So along 
with what Mr W has told us, Ive thought about the terms of Mr Ws policy.
The policy sets out what isnt covered  by it as well as what is. What the policy  doesnt cover  
is set out in the exclusions  sections.  And the policy document that RSA has provided, says 
in the section which sets out conditions and exclusions that apply to the whole policy: 
5 Rot
Loss or damage by wet rot or dry rot whether or not this was caused directly  or indirectly by 
an insured cause.  
Mr W accepts  that there was a deterioration of the bathroom joists  and floorboards as a 
result of water leaking from a broken pipe. The surveyors  report obtained by RSA records  
the damage as decayed timber/rot. 
So Im satisfied from everything Ive been given that the damage  to the bathroom timber was 
more likely than not, rot caused by a leaking pipe. 
Mr W appears to be arguing that the damage  caused by the broken pipe would originally  
have been sudden and should  be covered  by the policy. But I dont think in this case that 
Ref: DRN70047532how the damage occurred and whether or not this was covered by the policy matters. I say 
this because the exclusion says that any damage  by wet or dry rot is excluded whether or 
not it was caused directly  or indirectly  by something the policy  covered.  So even if the event 
causing the rot was an insured event, any damage caused by rot wouldnt be covered under 
the terms of the policy.
And I think the policy exclusions were set out in respect of each section of the policy in 
relation to the different  areas of cover.
I do understand that Mr W will naturally  be disappointed with my decision and he has found  
himself with an unexpected bill he didnt think he would have to pay. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont think RSA has done  anything wrong by not accepting his claim.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7004753