K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc debited his account  with a series  of 14 card 
payments totalling  £3,493.67 which he says he didnt make  or otherwise authorise.  
background
In March 2018 Mr C was on holiday in Poland with friends and went to a gentlemens club. 
He explained  that he went to the club and paid for a bottle of alcohol for around  £80, before  
going to a private room and paying for a dance which cost around £384. He said a second 
member of staff took this payment  on a card machine and he put his card back into his 
phone wallet. 
Whilst in the private  room  Mr C explained  the dancer  gave him a drink and he couldnt 
remember anything after this. His next recollection was waking up in his accommodation 
with his card in his phone wallet where  he remembered putting it. Over approximately two 
hours after Mr C paid for the dance, a further 14 transactions amounting to nearly £3,500  
were carried  out on Mr Cs debit card. Mr C says he did not make or otherwise  authorise 
these payments. Mr C said that his PIN wasnt recorded anywhere and he hadnt given it to 
anyone, but suggested  that someone may have  seen him enter it when he was paying for 
his two genuine chip and PIN transactions. 
Mr C said he noticed these transactions when he returned home and received a text from 
HSBC explaining that he had gone  over his overdraft limit. He got in touch with HSBC and 
initially disputed 15 of the 16 transactions in the gentlemens club, two payments hed made 
earlier in the evening and a cash withdrawal  after the transactions  in the gentlemens  club of 
around £350. 
HSBC declined to refund Mr C for these transactions on the basis  that they thought  it was 
most likely he had authorised the transactions himself because:  
He was in the club at the time the transactions took place;  
His actual HSBC  credit card and PIN code had been used; 
He said that he had been  in possession of his card the whole time; and 
He told them there was no way anyone could  have  known  his PIN.
Mr C was unhappy with HSBCs response, so he contacted our service. Initially  our 
investigator said she couldnt recommend that his complaint was upheld.  Mr C then admitted 
to our investigator that he hadnt been  truthful  and that he had made the two earlier 
transactions and two transactions in the gentlemens club.  He also accepted that he made 
the cash withdrawal  after the gentlemens club. He explained that he had been too 
embarrassed to admit  this before. 
Mr C also explained that since the incident Mr C has completed  a lot of research about 
gentlemens clubs  in Poland  which  suggest  that the clubs spike  drinks so that they can 
defraud customers. Having completed  this research he felt that the drink the dancer gave 
him may have been spiked with something which allowed her or someone else to make  the 
transactions before replacing his card in his phone wallet. 
Our investigator then recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld on the basis  that she 
felt on balance that Mr C hadnt authorised these transactions. HSBC didnt accept the 
investigators view, so the matter was passed  to me to decide. They  said his evidence  had 
Ref: DRN72690402changed regarding  which transactions were disputed and his more  recent  testimony that he 
felt he may have been drugged, and so they thought this undermined his credibility. As such  
they remained satisfied  that Mr C had authorised the payments. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 May 2020. I explained why I thought that on the 
evidence it was most likely that Mr C did authorise the transactions, and so would likely not 
be upholding Mr Cs complaint. I asked both parties  to provide me with any additional 
information they wanted me to consider. HSBC had nothing  further  to add. Mr C wrote  to our 
investigator and said he wouldnt be submitting  any further evidence, but that he was sure he 
was scammed and that the experience  has had a huge impact on his mental health. He 
explained that due to this and the debt he was left with he was in a very desperate place 
when he first spoke to HSBC, which was why some of his testimony has changed over time.  
So I will now need to make a final decision about this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my provisional decision 
has not changed and I wont be upholding this complaint. I know this will come as 
disappointment to Mr C, and I am sorry to hear of the significant  impact this has had on Mr 
Cs well-being. Ill explain why I wont be asking HSBC to refund these transactions to Mr C. 
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Cs genuine card and PIN code  were  
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that its 
not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC  to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr C consented to the 
transactions being made. Having done  so, I think it is most  likely Mr C did authorise these 
transactions. This is because:  
All 14 disputed transactions were completed using Mr Cs actual HSBC debit card 
and PIN code. Mr C has stated that he didnt disclose his PIN code  to any other 
person and that he hadnt made a record of his PIN code anywhere. Whilst I accept 
that Mr C has said a third party may have  observed him entering his PIN, I note he 
has also told us that he is always very careful  about his card security and had 
thought he had his card with him throughout this time.
So Ive considered what would have had to have happened for someone  else to have  
made these transactions without Mr Cs consent. The person making the payments 
would have had to gain access to both Mr Cs card and observe him entering his PIN 
code. Mr C has said he thinks this may have been possible  due to the free drink he 
was given being spiked. 
Mr C told us that his card was put back into his phone wallet, and then back into his 
pocket after the last genuine  transaction he made in the gentlemens club.  The first 
transaction that Mr C disputes was for around £128 and took place 39 seconds after 
Mr C authorised the payment for £384.  So, there is only a 39 second window for Mr 
C to put his card back in his phone wallet, then back into his pocket, consume the 
drink that the dancer gave him, lose consciousness,  then a third party  would have to 
remove Mr Cs phone  wallet from his pocket, then remove  the debit card from the 
phone wallet and then use the debit card in a terminal.  I think it is highly improbable  
that all this could  have happened  in that 39 second window. 
Ref: DRN72690403Following on from this, 13 further payments were made over the period of 
approximately two hours. Some of these  transactions are close  together,  but there  
are gaps  between  some payments of up to 42 minutes.  If an unknown third party  had 
access to his card and PIN it seems like an unnecessary risk to space the 
transactions out over this time period if Mr C remained unconscious within  the same 
establishment. 
Further, some  of the payments are for as little as £2.14, which  would seem  strange if 
this was an unknown  third party with access to the card and PIN. Whilst I accept an 
unknown third party could make transactions of any amount, I might expect such a 
person to maximise use of the available balance of the card as quickly as possible in 
order to have the highest gain for themselves, without the risk of Mr C waking up and 
realising what has happened. It is clear  the available balance wasnt  quickly  utilised 
as these transactions took place over a two-hour period, and there was available 
balance after Mr C left the gentlemens  club as evidenced by the cash  withdrawal  Mr 
C accepts he made  after leaving  the club.   
It is clear that Mr C had his card on him by the time he left the club.  It again  seems 
like an unnecessary risk for a third party to take to return the card to Mr C once  they 
had obtained it. Even  if Mr C was unconscious, this would risk waking him and 
alerting him to what was going on. 
Mr C says that he does not recall  anything that happened between drinking the shot 
and waking up at his accommodation the following morning.  However,  Mr C accepts 
that around 20 minutes after the last disputed  transaction at the gentlemens  club,  he 
made an ATM withdrawal for around  £350  on his way back to his accommodation in 
the early hours. I think it is therefore  plausible that he did make the disputed 
transactions in the club, but may not recall them due to intoxication. 
Mr C suggests that he may have  been  drugged. I havent seen any evidence in 
support of Mr Cs suggestion he may have been  drugged. Indeed, Mr C only 
suggested that this could  have  happened after he had conducted research online. 
I understand that disclosing  that he had paid for a dance  in a gentlemens club felt 
embarrassing for him. However,  I do think it calls the credibility of Mr Cs testimony 
into account that he specifically stated in earlier conversations to HSBC that he didnt 
authorise the first payment of £384.  He says I would not have paid anything  like this 
 but has since  told us that he did. Id also have expected him to raise the possibility 
that he had been  drugged at an earlier stage, and certainly prior to reading  the 
reviews online. 
I understand Mr C strongly  feels he has been a victim of fraud,  and I am not disputing  
this may have happened. I think its possible that Mr C authorised  the payments but 
didnt mean to authorise payments  for these amounts   perhaps due to an 
inconsistency between what he was told he would be charged and what  the 
gentlemens club put through  on the payment terminal. However, it would be Mr Cs 
responsibility to check  the amount on the terminal  including  exchange  rate - prior to 
entering his PIN. With regard to the relevant regulations,  it is enough that he knew  at 
the time he was consenting to a payment even if he didnt know the amount, or 
indeed if he later forgot about the payments due to intoxication.  
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for HSBC hold Mr C liable 
for these  transactions because I think its more likely than not that Mr C made or the 
transactions that he disputes. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN72690404For the reasons  Ive explained above I reject this complaint and will not be asking HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7269040