K821x#15complaint
Miss G and Mrs H are complaining about  The Royal London Mutual Insurance  Society  
Limited because  their life and critical illness insurance policies were  cancelled after they 
missed premium payments.
background 
In 2013, Miss G and Mrs H each took a policy with Bright  Grey  (part of Royal London).  
Miss Gs policy provided life and critical illness cover  over a term of 40 years  for a monthly 
premium of £14.24.  Mrs Hs policy provided  life cover only over a term of 25 years for a 
monthly premium of £9.72.  The premiums for both were paid from Miss Gs account.
In 2017, I understand Miss G ran into some financial difficulty.  Her bank  statements show 
Royal London tried to collect a monthly  premium on 1 and 11 August, but this wasnt 
successful as there wasnt enough  in the account.
Miss G called Royal London on 21 August to discuss the situation and according to its notes, 
she was told not to worry as two premiums would be collected in September  to bring the 
policies up to date.
Miss Gs bank  statements  show Royal London  tried to collect  two monthly premiums on 
1 September,  but again this was unsuccessful as there wasnt  enough  money in the account.
Royal London then wrote to Miss G and Mrs H on 5 and 6 September  to explain what  was 
happening. The second  letter said it would cancel the cover if the missing premiums werent 
paid soon.
Mrs H called Royal London on 14 September. Then nothing more  happened until 3 October, 
when Royal  London  wrote to Miss G and Mrs H to say their cover  had been  cancelled. 
Theyve been told that if they want to restart  it, theyll need to provide further information 
about their health.
When they complained,  Royal London initially said it hadnt followed  its procedure correctly 
when cancelling  the policies and offered Miss G and Mrs H £50 each for their trouble and 
upset. But it said it would  still need them to complete a health  questionnaire to restart  cover.  
It then decided it hadnt made a mistake after all, but said they could keep the compensation 
offered previously.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Royal London didnt  accept my provisional decision,  making the following key points:
It attempted to collect the outstanding premiums three times, after which  its records 
show the direct debit mandate was cancelled.
During the call with Mrs H, it did say it would try to collect the premiums again. It 
accepts this was an error  because the direct debit mandate had already been 
cancelled, but doesnt think the action Ive said it should  take is a proportionate 
response.
Ref: DRN75341702It sent a new direct  debit instruction following the call with Mrs H, but this wasnt 
returned and the policy lapsed  as a result.
Mrs H called in January 2018  for a reinstatement  pack, which it sent.  It then heard 
nothing until she and Miss G contacted  us to complain.
Its made reasonable efforts  to put things  right and thinks  the compensation it offered 
is fair. If its going  to be required  to reinstate  the policies, at the very least  it should be 
able to request  evidence  of health  changes and take these into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Royal Londons response to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent  changed.
For the reasons  Ive explained previously, if Royal London had tried to collect  the premium  
again around 1 October as it said it would in line with its normal  procedure,  I believe the 
policies wouldnt have  lapsed and would still be in force.  And based on their contact with 
Royal London, including Mrs Hs call, I think she and Miss G were  entitled to believe thats 
what would  happen.  While they may not have responded as quickly  as Royal London  thinks  
they should have to subsequent correspondence,  the point remains that none of that would 
have been necessary if it had done  what it should have in the first place.
My aim is to put Miss G and Mrs H back into the position theyd be in if Royal London had 
done what it should have, so I think its right the policies are reinstated  without  further 
medical evidence.  As I said previously, Id expect  Miss G and Mrs H to pay the missed 
premiums in full, which theyve said theyre  willing  to do. I dont think  they should  be 
precluded from having  the policies reinstated if they cant pay this amount in one go, which is 
why Im saying Royal London  should  allow them  to pay in instalments if necessary.
I note Royal  London  maintains its records show the direct debit had been cancelled  with 
Miss Gs bank,  but it told us that wasnt the case. If Royal London  thinks it was given 
misleading information and that its been  disadvantaged as a result,  thats something it 
would need to take up separately with the bank.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Miss G and Mrs H accept my decision,  The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited must  put things right using  the method set out in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75341703extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Royal London  has consistently said its procedure  is to cancel cover only after three direct debit 
payments are missed.  It said this in its call with Mrs H on 14 September  2017, a recording of which 
Ive listened to, and in its initial  response to the complaint  dated 29 December 2017.
Its not clear whether the fact Royal London tried to collect the direct debit payment twice  in August 
2017 means it considers  the attempt on 1 September was the third. Or whether, to comply with its 
procedure, it should have tried for the third month running  at the beginning of October.  Weve been in 
contact with Miss Gs bank and its told us Royal  London  didnt  try to collect any payments  after 1 
September. Its also told us the direct debit instruction wasnt cancelled until she closed  her account  
recently. 
From listening  to the conversation with Mrs H on 14 September, she was told the policies wouldnt be 
cancelled until three payments were missed and that everything would  be fine if the arrears were paid 
by the beginning of October. After this, I think she and Miss G were entitled to believe there was no 
immediate concern  about  their policies being cancelled because Royal  London would collect the 
premiums needed to bring them up to date around 1 October. And Miss G has provided copies  of 
bank statements showing there was enough  money in her account at that time. If it wasnt planning  to 
try and collect payment  again,  either because it felt it had already tried three times,  or because it 
thought the direct debit instruction had been cancelled,  I think  it should have said so.
In my view,  the problem here arose because  Royal London didnt try to collect the arrears  on the 
policies on or around  1 October as I think Miss G and Mrs H were entitled to expect. This either 
represents a failure by Royal  London to follow  its procedure of not cancelling the policies until three 
direct debit payments  were  missed. Or a failure  to explain  the situation clearly when Mrs H called on 
14 September if it felt it had already made three attempts. From  what  Ive seen, Miss G and Mrs H 
were keen to avoid their policies being cancelled and I think its likely they would  have found a way to 
pay the comparatively small  amounts needed  to keep them going  if theyd been told that was 
necessary.
putting things  right
If Royal London  had acted as it should, I dont think Miss G and Mrs Hs policies would have been 
cancelled. To put things  right, I currently think  it should  reinstate  both policies on their original terms 
and without them any requirement for further health  information.
As part of the reinstatements process, Miss G and Mrs H would need to pay the premiums that 
havent been  paid since August 2017.  If theyre unable to pay this amount in one go, Id expect Royal  
London to allow them  to pay it in instalments over a period of six or 12 months for example. Going  
forward, Miss G and Mrs H will also need to pay their normal monthly premiums and may need to 
complete new direct  debit instructions to facilitate this.
I think  Royal  Londons failings have caused Miss G and Mrs H unnecessary trouble  and upset. This 
was compounded  by the errors in its initial response to their complaint. Its difficult to assess the 
impact of these errors  and how much I should award. But taking everything into account, I think  a 
moderate payment of £350  is fair in the circumstances.  
If Miss G and Mrs H have already received the £100 Royal London  offered them previously,  it would  
only have to pay a further £250 now. If Miss G and Mrs H agree to this, Royal London could  use the 
compensation to reduce the amount of the premium arrears on their policies.
Ref: DRN75341704my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Miss G and Mrs Hs complaint. I currently think The 
Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited should put things right using the method  set out 
above, including  a total payment of £350  for their trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN7534170