K821x#15complaint
Ms B says Provident Personal Credit  Limited (Provident)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Provident provided to Ms B between July 2017  
and November 2018. Ms Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan 3 onwards 
shouldnt have been given as they thought the pattern of borrowing indicated  Ms B was 
reliant on short-term loans. Provident didnt respond to the assessment.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments
(in weeks)Amount Max Repayment
1 24/07/2017 01/09/2018 12 £550.00 £91.30
2 04/11/2017 04/10/2018 12 £500.00 £174.30
3 19/04/2018 04/10/2018 12 £800.00 £307.10
4 17/10/2018 active 52 £260.00 £49.75
5 22/11/2018 active 12 £950.00 £207.45
Ref: DRN78720792the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Provident  needed to do more when it approved loans 1 and 2. 
Ms B didnt respond to the view. As there appears  to no longer be a dispute about these 
loans, I won be making  further  findings  on them.
Provident says it carried  out adequate checks before it lent loan 3 to Ms B. These  checks  
included verifying  what she had told Provident about her income and outgoings. But as this 
was Ms Bs third loan in nine months   and for the largest amount  to date  I think Provident 
should have been looking to build  a clearer picture  about Ms Bs finances before lending her 
this loan. 
I say this because  at the time of loan 3, Ms B had been in debt with Provident continuingly 
during this period and she still had two outstanding  loans with Provident. The combined  
repayments for all three of these loans was increasing her monthly outgoings. And had 
Provident carried out proportionate  checks before  lending this loan, its likely to have found  
that Ms B was borrowing  from other  short-term  lenders. This borrowing  was further 
increasing her monthly outgoings and was most likely an indication  that she was in a cycle of 
debt and was taking out more loans to cover  the hole that repaying her previous loans was 
leaving in her finances. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Providents  lending history with Ms B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Provident should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Provident should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5. I say 
this because:
Ref: DRN78720793At this point Provident ought to have  realised Ms B was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms B had taken out five loans in 16 months. So Provident ought  to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms B was having to borrow  further to cover 
the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances  and that Ms Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Ms Bs first loan was for £550  and loan 5 was for £950.  At  this point Provident ought 
to have known  that it was unlikely Ms B was borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall  
in her income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Ms B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Provident. As 
mentioned above loan 5 was taken out nearly a year and half after Ms Bs first. So, in 
effect Ms B had paid large amounts  of interest  to service  a debt to Provident over an 
extended period.
I think that Ms B lost out because Provident continued to provide borrowing for loan 5 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Ms Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding  Ms Bs complaint about  loans 3 to 5. 
putting things right  what Provident  Personal Credit Limited needs to do
If Provident has sold the outstanding debts Provident should  buy these back  if Provident  is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Provident cant buy the debts back, then 
Provident should liaise with the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Provident should add together the total of the repayments made  by Ms B towards  interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Provident has already  refunded.
B) Provident should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by 
Ms B which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally  made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Provident  should remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Ms B as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Ms B having made 
overpayments then Provident should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Provident should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Ms B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
Ref: DRN78720794then Provident  should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with Ms B. Provident  
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal  Provident has already written-
off.
E) Provident should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in 
relation to loans  3 and 4. The overall pattern  of Ms Bs borrowing at loan 5 means any 
information recorded about this loan is adverse, so Provident should remove this loan 
entirely from Ms Bs credit file. Provident  does not have to remove  the loan from Ms Bs 
credit file until its been repaid, but Provident  should still remove  any adverse information 
recorded about the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Bs complaint.  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872079