K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he car he acquired  with finance  from FirstRand  Bank Limited  (trading as 
Motonovo Finance)  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In August  2017  Mr H acquired a car on hire purchase from Motonovo.  At the point  of sale it 
was four years old and had done 85,604 miles. Mr H says hes had multiple problems with 
the car starting shortly after he acquired it. In November 2017  Motonovo  paid out 
approximately £1,700 to cover these repairs.
In August  2018  the car broke  down  due to a fault with the cambelt.  Mr H feels  this should 
have been checked before sale. Hes also unhappy  as he says the garage  told him that the 
cambelt on this car was chain driven so wouldnt need to be replaced. In view of whats  
happened Mr H doesnt feel the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and would 
now like to reject it.
Motonovo said it couldnt agree without  further information to show the fault had been  
present in August 2017 so Mr H brought  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that under the regulations Motonovo 
was only responsible for faults that were present or developing at the point of sale. In this 
case hed seen that the thered been a pre-sale inspection, including checking the engine  
pulleys, and this hadnt found  a fault so he didnt agree the garage  should have changed the 
cambelt as a matter  of course. 
He noted what  Mr H had said about  the cambelt chain but the garage had denied  saying this 
and there  was nothing to clarify this one way or the other. But even if this had been said,  a 
cambelt was a serviceable  item that needed  to be repaired  over time. In this case  the 
cambelt hadnt failed  until August 2018  which was 12 months after Mr H acquired the car. 
And during this time Mr H had done over 15,000 miles. On that basis  he couldnt  agree the 
fault had been present or developing at the point of sale so he wouldnt be asking Motonovo 
to do anything more.
Mr H disagreed and said the car had had a number of problems from the start. Thered been 
£1,800 worth of work needed  within the first three months and now he was faced with a 
further bill for £1,000.  He felt the car was mis-sold  to him and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this isnt the decision Mr H was 
hoping for but having done so I wont be asking Motonovo to do anything  more as Ill now 
explain.
Mr H acquired  this car under a hire purchase  agreement from Motonovo.  In such  cases 
theres an implied term that the car provided by Motonovo  will be of satisfactory quality, that 
is what a reasonable  person would consider to be satisfactory taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as the age, mileage and price.  If I find that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality I can direct Motonovo to take put matters right. But theres a limit to that 
Ref: DRN77909302responsibility and that is that the fault or faults must have been present or developing at the 
point of sale.
In coming to my decision Ive looked at all the available information. Where theres no clear  
information on any particular point, however, Ive made my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities, in other words whats more likely than not to have happened.
Ive seen Mr H says there were problems  with the car within a few weeks of taking 
possession. I can understand why hed be so unhappy about this but the notes show  that 
Motonovo agreed to pay just under £1,700 to cover the cost of the repairs  and the complaint 
was resolved at that time on that basis. Ive seen nothing to show  that these problems have  
occurred again  so Ive focussed my decision on the recent problem that Mr H has had with 
his car.
Mr H says in August 2018 the car broke  down  and the fault was diagnosed as the cam belt. 
He feels this should have been  checked-  and preferably replaced- before he acquired the 
car taking  into account its age and mileage. He also says he was told it wouldnt need  
replacing as it was chain driven. Ive looked at these in turn.
cambelt chain.
Ive seen what Mr H says about the cambelt  chain but the garage denies it said this or that 
its ever heard of a cambelt chain.  It may be that theres been some misunderstanding  as to 
the actual words used  but I think it unlikely that a garage would say that a part would never 
need replacing as all parts can wear out over time through age or usage. And because  of 
this, Id still have  to consider if this fault was caused by an inherent fault at the point of sale 
or by the usual  wear and tear to be expected of a car of this age.
replacing the cambelt on sale
Ive seen the sales invoice and work sheet that show a full check was carried on sale,  
including a check of the engine relay  pulleys. It didnt report any problem and, for that 
reason, I wouldnt expect a garage  to replace it just in case.  As Mr H says, he bought  the 
car as seen and knowing its age and mileage  and that would include knowing that parts 
can wear and out and would  need  to be checked  and maintained  as time went  on.
cambelt failure
Its generally accepted  that if a fault occurs within the first six months its more likely that it 
was present or developing  at the point of sale. After that its for the consumer to show that 
was the case.
Its clear that in this case the cambelt didnt fail until August 2018. Thats  almost  twelve  
months after Mr H acquired it and after hed covered almost  15,000  miles.  Ive also seen  that 
during this time Mr H didnt have the car serviced  which might  have  identified  whether the 
cambelt was starting to wear, as happens  over time.
I sympathise with the situation Mr H now finds himself in. Its always frustrating when car 
goes wrong- and the cost of the repair in this case is significant.  But taking into account  
when this fault occurred and the mileage that Mr H had covered during the time hed had the 
car, I think  it more probable that this was due to wear and tear. If it had been present or 
developing in August 2017  then realistically  Id expect  it to have become clear sooner than it 
did.
Ref: DRN77909303I realise Mr H may be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons set out above  I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Motonovo to do anything  more.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7790930