K821x#15complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans and five instalment  loans which Mr Lender  
provided to Mr C between  April 2014 and November 2017. The loans were as follows:
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Number of 
scheduled repayments
1 18.04.14 £100 1
2 26.03.16 £100 1
3 03.05.16 £400 3
4 08.08.16 £250 3
5 05.10.16 £400 3
6 03.03.17 £250 6
7 07.11.17 £200 3
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part. He thought loan 7 shouldnt  have  been  
given. Neither Mr Lender nor Mr C agreed  with the adjudicators view.  So the complaint was 
passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to Mr Lender on 15 April 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Mr Lender  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But I explained that certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender  should fairly and 
reasonably have done more  to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN72603902There may even come  a point  where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender  was required to 
establish whether  Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
I acknowledged that the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an 
indication a consumer  could  sustainably make their repayments.  But it didnt 
automatically follow this was the case. This is because  the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC) defines sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing  further.  
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Cs complaint.
I didnt think that Mr Lender was irresponsible to give Mr C the first five loans. Taking into 
account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, 
and Mr Cs borrowing history with Mr Lender, I didnt think  it would have been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr C for information in the detail needed to show that 
the borrowing  was unsustainable for him.
There wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided, or the information Mr Lender  
should have been  aware of, which meant that it would have been proportionate  for 
Mr Lender to start verifying what he was saying.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending  history with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should  reasonably have  seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Mr Lender  should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I thought  that this point was reached 
by loan 6. This was because:
Mr Lender  agreed to loan 6 as soon as Mr C had finished repaying loan 5. So 
I thought it ought to have realised it was more  likely than not that Mr C was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances. It was true that loan 6 was for less than loan 5. But Mr C had had to enter  a 
repayment plan for loan 5. And I thought this should  have  caused  Mr Lender  concern 
that Mr C had been struggling  to repay  his borrowing. In the circumstances, I thought 
there was a significant risk that Mr C would be unable to sustainably meet his 
repayments for loan 6 and any subsequent  loans; and
by the time he took out loan 7, Mr C had been  borrowing  almost  continuously  from 
Mr Lender for more than 19 months.  And hed again had to enter  a payment plan to 
repay loan 6.
Ref: DRN72603903I thought that Mr C lost out because Mr Lender  continued to provide  borrowing from loan 
6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time; 
and
the sheer number  of loans, the length  of time hed been borrowing from Mr Lender 
for, and the fact that hed had to use repayment plans to repay loans 5 and 6 was 
likely to have had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit 
and so kept him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So in addition to upholding  the complaint about  loan 7, as the adjudicator did, I was 
proposing to uphold the complaint about  loan 6, and to require Mr Lender  to put things 
right as Ive set out below.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans Mr C had taken with Mr Lender, combined with the total length of 
time hed been borrowing from it, means any information recorded about loans 6 and 7 is 
adverse. So all entries about  those loans should be removed  from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
further submissions
Mr C says hes happy to accept my provisional decision. And Mr Lenders told us it has 
nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.  Having done  so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings 
I set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN72603904my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require PDL Finance  Limited  (trading 
as Mr Lender) to put things  right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7260390