K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Virgin Media  Mobile Finance  Limited (VMMF) has incorrectly  dealt 
with his complaints  and failed to properly deal with a debt.
background
Mr R upgraded his mobile handset  in May 2017. There were two separate  agreements 
set up with two direct  debits. One for the handset, and one for the airtime contract. Mr R 
moved banks and updated  his payment details for the airtime contract  but not the 
handset contract.
VMMF wrote to Mr R to tell him that the handset payment had not been made six times 
between May and August 2017. At the end of August 2017 VMMF wrote to Mr R to tell 
him that the agreement had broken down, the full amount of the debt of £432  was due 
and it was passing the debt to a third party  collection company.
Mr R called VMMF  in August 2017 to explain  that he was unable to pay the full amount 
as his circumstances had changed  and he was in financial difficulty.  Mr R says that the 
call operator at VMMF was rude to him and told him he needed to contact the third party 
to arrange repayment. Mr R contacted the third party and was told that it held no details 
for him. Following this Mr R said that he called VMMF to make a complaint and was told 
it could take some time for someone  to get back to him. In November 2017 Mr R 
explains that whilst he was on the phone about  his broadband he queried what  was 
happening with his mobile complaint. Mr R says he was kept on hold for 45 minutes  and 
eventually told that someone would call him back but no-one  did.
No correspondence  was sent by the third party  to Mr R and in January 2018 the third 
party returned the debt to VMMF. In September  2018 Mr R complained to VMMF about 
the delay in dealing with his complaints  and he asked  for the business  to write off the 
debt given the circumstances.
At the end of September  2018 VMMF sent a letter to Mr R explaining that it did not think  
it had made  any error and if Mr R was unable to repay the debt in full he should contact 
the third party  collections  company to arrange  a repayment plan. Mr R wasnt happy and 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought that VMMF had made  it clear  to 
Mr R that he was entering into two separate contracts  for his handset and airtime. She 
thought that because Mr R didnt update his payment  details VMMF hadnt done 
anything wrong  by sending Mr R arrears letters and passing his debt to a third party.  But 
she thought that VMMF had incorrectly told Mr R to return to the third party in September 
2018 to arrange a repayment plan when the debt had in fact been passed back to VMMF 
in January 2018. She wasnt able to say that VMMF hadnt responded to Mr Rs 
complaints as there wasnt  enough  evidence about this. She thought that VMMF  should 
reduce Mr Rs outstanding debt by £75 to reflect the inconvenience and anxiety caused 
by the incorrect  information. VMMF agreed.
Mr R didnt agree and replied to say in summary  that his complaint hadnt been properly 
considered. He said that he definitely called VMMF to make complaints and he was 
upset that this had not been believed. He said that as a vulnerable  consumer it was only 
Ref: DRN76184832fair that the debt was written  off given the circumstances and the delay caused by VMMF 
failing to respond to his complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that Mr R was aware that there  were  two separate  direct  
debits and that he was not misled about  the situation. Mr R may not have fully 
understood it at the time, which is understandable  given  the amount of information that 
was provided. But as soon as the first handset direct debit was missed in May 2017  
VMMF sent him a letter and continued to write to him about  it monthly until August 2017. 
So I think it is fair to say that VMMF  did what I would  expect. Mr R says that he received 
the letters but during this period he was unwell and not able to deal with the situation.  I 
sympathise but I cant see that he made  VMMF aware of his change of circumstances so 
I dont think the business  did anything wrong by terminating the agreement  and asking 
for the full balance  to be repaid in August 2017.
I think that it was unfortunate that VMMF told Mr R to contact the third party about the 
debt before it had been formally  passed  over. I dont doubt that Mr R was upset in 
August 2017 and wanted to set up a repayment  plan and he told VMMF this when he 
called. I think it is likely  that he was unhappy with VMMF and the service he had 
received from the call operator. Mr R has been  consistent about this in his letters.
Because of the time that has passed there  is no call recording available so I cant  be 
satisfied that the operator was rude or that Mr R was treated unfairly  without any further 
evidence. Similarly, Mr R has said he made  two further complaints in August and 
November 2017.  Because  of the time that has passed, Mr R cant  show the calls were 
made and VMMF has no record of them. I am not doubting Mr Rs account of what 
happened and I am not saying that I dont believe him but without  any further evidence 
of what was discussed or details about the calls I cant be satisfied that VMMF were 
made aware  that Mr R had made  a formal complaint and then failed to deal with it.
That said,  it seems that VMMF did nothing to contact Mr R about the debt after it was 
returned from the third party in January  2018.  The third party sent no letters to Mr R and 
it appears that it did not contact him at all. Mr R was understandably waiting for further  
contact given what he had been told in August.
Mr R complained in September 2018  in writing and in its response  the business  again 
referred Mr R to the third party even  though  it had returned the debt. I can appreciate 
that this was upsetting for Mr R and added  to his anxiety as he has been trying  to set up 
a repayment plan and sort out the debt for some time. By this point VMMF were aware 
of Mr Rs health and financial difficulties and so I think it should have done more  to assist 
him. I agree with the investigator that VMMF should reduce Mr Rs debt by £75 to reflect 
the upset caused by this incorrect information.  VMMF have agreed to make  this 
reduction.
I appreciate that Mr R is now in difficulties  but this wasnt  known at the time the contract 
was taken out and Mr R has had the benefit of the handset so I think it is only fair that he 
pays back what he owes at an affordable rate. I would expect the business to work with 
Mr R to arrange an affordable repayment  plan for the balance  and to treat him positively 
Ref: DRN76184833and sympathetically. The business has confirmed that Mr Rs account is to be reviewed 
by its collections team. 
   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Virgin Mobile  
Media Finance  Limited should reduce Mr Rs outstanding balance by £75. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7618483