K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR  Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
November 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. MYJAR  has said 
that it agrees  with my provisional decision.  Neither Mr S, nor the claims management 
company that represents him, have  responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any further  evidence or arguments  I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
It follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for MYJAR to give any of the loans to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76680092EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr S was given four loans by MYJAR between July 2016 and June  2017. Each of the loans  was 
repayable in monthly  instalments as shown in the table below. Mr S successfully  repaid his first three 
loans but a balance  remained outstanding on his final loan when he made his complaint. A summary 
of his borrowing from MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount Scheduled  
Repayments
1 06/07/2016 24/12/2016 £   600 6
2 26/12/2016 31/03/2017 £   500 3
3 01/04/2017 07/06/2017 £   500 3
4 18/06/2017 - £   500 3
 
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  MYJAR had been 
wrong to give the first three loans to Mr S. But she thought that Mr Ss borrowing history should have 
led the lender to conclude that it wasnt reasonable to give him the last loan. So she asked MYJAR to 
pay Mr S some compensation.
MYJAR didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr S could  repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN76680093Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his income,  and his normal 
expenditure. And it checked his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a summary of those 
checks and I dont  think  they showed anything that should  have caused additional concerns  to the 
lender.
I think  that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing each of the four loans were  proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr S needed to repay each month were small compared with the disposable income  
hed declared. Given these repayment  amounts, what was apparent about  Mr Ss circumstances at 
the time, and his borrowing history with the lender,  I dont  think it wouldve  been proportionate for 
MYJAR to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before  agreeing the loans.
Our adjudicator thought that the pattern  of Mr Ss borrowing in the lead up to loan 4 should  have 
caused MYJAR to decide it was unlikely  that Mr S would  be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable 
manner. But I dont currently agree.  Whilst it is true that Mr Ss borrowing pattern  should  have started 
to cause some concerns to the lender, I dont think those concerns would have been enough at that 
time to mean  the loan shouldnt  have been given. There had been a short  gap between  loan 3 being  
repaid and loan 4 being  taken. And the amount that Mr S asked to borrow  on loan 4 was significantly 
less than the loan hed repaid a couple of weeks earlier. So on balance I dont currently think  it was 
unreasonable for MYJAR to give this loan to Mr S.
Ref: DRN7668009