K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  will not make a refund to him for goods he 
bought from a merchant.
background
Mr C ordered something from a merchant and paid with his Nationwide  card. When  he was 
told he couldnt receive it the next day he told the merchant  to cancel the order. He says he 
received an email confirming the cancellation  with a refund due soon after. But this wasnt 
made. As Mr C couldnt get his money  back from the merchant he contacted Nationwide. It 
raised a chargeback request with the merchant. After an investigation  Nationwide said it 
wouldnt be possible to refund Mr Cs payment  as the transaction appeared valid as the 
goods were delivered  and signed for. 
Mr C says he cancelled the transaction and didnt sign for or receive  the goods
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said 
Here Nationwide  made the chargeback  request and put the cancellation email Mr C 
had received to the merchant. The merchant said the cancellation  had been  
completed too late to stop the goods  being dispatched. And they had subsequently 
been delivered to Mr Cs address by a courier company with a signature confirming 
receipt.
Mr C disputes the authenticity  of the signature  and has spoken to the courier 
company about this. But without further evidence to show  the signature was forged  
Nationwide couldnt continue to dispute  the chargeback.
Nationwide has done what  it was supposed to do and investigated  the payment 
through the chargeback  process.  It didnt have  any reason to dispute the evidence  od 
the delivery and declined  the chargeback request. It hasnt acted unfairly.
Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  Hes adamant he didnt sign 
for the goods.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  has said we can only look at what Nationwide  has done in respect  of the 
chargeback request and process.  Not what the merchant or the courier  company has done.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I think Nationwide acted  reasonably by submitting the chargeback  request to the merchant 
Its subsequent  investigation revealed the courier company has evidence that it delivered the 
goods to Mr Cs address  and that they were signed  for. Despite this Mr C adamantly  says he 
didnt receive or sign for them. 
Ref: DRN79890282I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling  and frustration. But without evidence establishing 
fraudulent activity I think Nationwide has acted reasonably declining  the chargeback request. 
And on the available evidence I dont  think I can fairly ask Nationwide  to do anything more or 
differently including allowing the chargeback request as Mr C would like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7989028