K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with Studio Retail Limited (Studio) as it only refunded  him money for one of 
his jackets. He believes he should  have  received  a refund for a second  jacket that he 
returned too. 
background 
Mr C has an account with Studio to purchase retail goods on credit. He bought two jackets  
one on 15 December 2018 for £99.99 and the second on 16 January 2019 for £114.99. He 
also paid an additional  amount for the cost of delivery.
On 25 January 2019, Mr C returned the items. He emailed Studio to chase the refund for 
both of the jackets. Studio started  an investigation into why he hadnt received  the refund 
and also asked Mr C to send the receipt  as evidence of the items  being posted. Initially the 
wrong receipt was sent by Mr C but after further  communication, he sent the correct one. 
The receipt Mr C sent to Studio included the weight of the item(s) returned. This receipt 
stated that the weight  of the package  was 0.268kg. Studio queried this internally and sought 
to find out approximately what the weight  of one jacket would be. It confirmed  the weight of 
one jacket was around 0.247kg so if there were two jackets posted in the same  package;  the 
weight ought to have been  around 0.494kg. Studio asked Mr C whether both jackets  were 
posted at the same  time and in the same  package.  Mr C confirmed he had posted both 
jackets in the one package.  
Based on the receipt Mr C had provided, Studio agreed to refund the amount for the highest 
priced jacket. It also agreed to refund the interest charged on the account and adjust this as 
if the item hadnt  been bought.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought Studio had acted appropriately in 
refunding the cost of the highest priced jacket as that was the only evidence of the jacket(s) 
being posted. She agreed with the approach Studio had taken in refunding any interest 
charged on the account and adjusting the balance.  She didnt think Studio needed to do 
anything further.  
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
Its therefore been passed to me. 
Mr C says he bought  two jackets and doesnt think its fair that hes left out of pocket  by 
receiving a refund for only one of them.  He also said Royal Mail has confirmed to him that 
errors can be made with the weight of packages  stated  on the receipt. So Mr C feels there 
could have been an error on the receipt  he got from the post office.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide  is whether or not Studio  has treated Mr C in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account  and whether the refund offered to him is fair.
Ref: DRN72621092Studio has said it has refunded Mr C for the highest priced jacket.  It didnt ever receive  either 
of the jackets but as Mr C provided a receipt  confirming  hed sent the package, Studio 
agreed to refund him the money  in line with the weight of that package. Its also confirmed 
this is in line with its returns policy. Mr C hasnt  been  able to produce any other evidence  
which suggests to me that an error  was made  by Studio or that he sent a second package 
consisting of the second  jacket. As there is only one receipt showing proof of postage, its 
more likely than not that the package only included one of the jackets. The actual physical 
jackets didnt ever arrive with Studio. So with the evidence we have, Im satisfied that Studio 
has acted fairly and in line with its policy  by refunding Mr C for one of the jackets  only.
I appreciate Royal  Mail has told Mr C there  could be a possibility of an error being made 
when weighing  the package. But I dont think its fair to make  Studio  responsible  for a 
potential error made by the post office. 
So overall, Im not persuaded that Studio has acted out of line with its policy. I think  
refunding the price  of the highest priced jacket  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. I therefore dont think Studio needs  to do anything  further  as I think  the offer 
made by Studio is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint against 
Studio Retail  Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7262109