K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that his credit card provider, Vanquis Bank  Limited, increased the 
outstanding balance on his card while he was on a repayment plan, and that they placed a 
default marker on his credit file.
background
Mr S opened  a credit card account with Vanquis  in July 2012. Alongside the card Mr S was 
sold a Repayment Option Plan (ROP)  a credit management tool.
In April 2015 Mr S exceeded  his credit limit and throughout the following  months  remained 
over his limit even though he stopped using the card for new spending. He missed a couple 
of monthly payments but managed to bring  the account within  its limit by the beginning of 
August. He missed a further payment in September 2015 and Vanquis made efforts  to get in 
touch with him to talk about what he could afford to pay.
On 2 October 2015 Mr S responded to Vanquis explaining that hed been  struggling 
financially because of some unexpected  expenditure but would be back  to normal  next 
month. On 16 November  2015 Mr S told Vanquis he could  afford to pay £100 over the next 
few months then Ill be back in a better financial  position to make normal  payments. 
Vanquis enquired  further about his situation  and Mr S explained that hed had to take some 
unpaid leave  to deal with an emergency  and pay out to get his car repaired.
In response, Vanquis set up a short-term  arrangement whereby Mr S would pay £100 per 
month for 3 months, and the interest  would be fixed at 1.99% for that period. Mr S managed 
to make two payments  of £100; one at the end of November and one at the end of 
December. The interest remained at 1.99% until 7 February 2016.
Mr S made no payments towards the account in 2016 and Vanquis  made  numerous  
attempts to contact  him in February,  March and April 2016. They wrote to him explaining  
what would  happen  if he continued to miss repayments, and on 14 April 2016 they issued a 
formal Notice of Default  to Mr S.
In May 2016  Vanquis wrote to Mr S saying that his account was still accruing interest and 
charges, but that they could close his account  and update his credit  file if he would make  
contact to agree an affordable repayment  plan. On 21 May 2016 Vanquis wrote again  saying 
their specialists were available to help and could, offer  an interest free plan for £56.96 per 
month or another  affordable amount.
Mr S replied  on 24 May 2016 explaining that he had unmanageable debt escalating. After 
some further  communication, during which Mr S confirmed he was up-to-date  with his priority 
bills, Vanquis proposed a repayment plan of £229.37 a month for 9 months. This plan would 
have allowed Mr S to use his card again  at the end of the arrangement. As no agreement 
was reached Mr S was advised to contact a third-party debt collector to make  payments to 
the account.
The last time Vanquis added interest  or charges to Mr Ss account was on 8 May 2016. The 
balance of the account at that point was £4,101.13.
Vanquis reported Mr Ss default to credit  reference  agencies in August 2016.
Ref: DRN78975452In October  2018 Mr S complained to Vanquis  about  his outstanding balance   he didnt think 
it should have  increased to £4,101.13  because hed been on a repayment plan.
In November 2018 Vanquis responded.  They  explained the outstanding debt had increased 
because interest and charges had been applied in line with the account terms and conditions 
until May 2016. They also said they were  satisfied the default  had been  applied correctly.
Mr S asked us to get involved in early 2019. He said he was unhappy with the charges 
Vanquis had applied to his account,  and wanted  any negative  information removed from his 
credit file.
Mr S also complained about the sale of the ROP and what hed paid for it. I issued a 
jurisdiction decision on 3 February 2021 which explained that that part of Mr Ss complaint 
had been brought to us too late. So, I wont be addressing that in this decision.  Ill only be 
addressing how Vanquis  treated Mr S when he fell behind with his repayments.
On 26 September  2019 Vanquis sold Mr Ss account to a third party. In January 2021  the 
outstanding balance was reduced to £3,484.79. This was due to Vanquis  refunding  the 
interest charged on the amount  Mr S had paid for the ROP, following a Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) investigation.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. He was satisfied Vanquis had applied  
interest and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account. He also said that 
once Vanquis were on notice Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties, theyd treated him 
with forbearance  and due consideration as they were obliged  to do.
He didnt think Vanquis should  have  spotted  Mr Ss difficulties any earlier  because  
throughout the latter part of 2015  Mr S had been  clear his circumstances were only 
temporary. He noted that in May 2016, when Mr S made it clear  he wasnt  managing,  
Vanquis proposed  a repayment plan and froze  all fees and charges. He also said Vanquis 
had given Mr S appropriate  notice of the default.
Mr S didnt provide  any further evidence or comment, but he didnt agree with the outcome. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.  I dont uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint.
The rules  that apply here say that lenders such as Vanquis should treat consumers in default 
or arrears with forbearance and due consideration.  What this means in practice is that 
lenders should  consider the borrowers circumstances, respond sympathetically and 
positively and, overall, treat them fairly.
I agree  with the investigators view that Vanquis  met that standard in Mr Ss case. I think 
Vanquis spotted signs that Mr S might have  been struggling in 2015 and made  efforts to 
listen to Mr S and get a clear understanding of his situation.  Ive seen evidence of the 
Ref: DRN78975453numerous attempts  they made to contact him. But I dont think  Mr S was forthcoming or clear 
with Vanquis about his financial  situation  until May 2016.  And by that time, hed exceeded 
his credit limit, missed  several monthly  repayments  and hadnt  been responding to Vanquiss  
attempts to get in touch.
Once Mr S had been clear about  his situation, I can see that Vanquis offered Mr S a 
repayment plan and ceased  applying  charges  or interest to the account. Shortly  prior to this 
theyd also sent Mr S a notice of default which included information about free debt advice.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Vanquis were entitled to apply interest and charges to Mr Ss 
account, in line with the terms  and conditions, until they became aware of his financial 
difficulties in May 2016. I also find that they acted fairly and reasonably towards  Mr S once 
they became aware of his situation  by ceasing to apply charges  and interest, and offering 
him repayment plan options.
Aside from his concerns  about the outstanding  balance, Mr S is unhappy  that Vanquis 
applied a default to his credit file. But I dont think it was unfair  of Vanquis to take that step in 
the circumstances. When  a consumer is more than three months behind with their 
repayments its not usually unreasonable for the lender  to record  an account in default.  
Vanquis have shown us that they sent Mr S the appropriate notice about what would  happen 
if he didnt bring his account up to date. So, I cant say that Vanquis did anything  wrong  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7897545