K821x#15Complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a disputed  transaction  
made from his credit  card.
Background
Mr T says that after being visited by the police in February 2018 he became aware of a 
disputed transaction  on his credit card that was carried out in 2014. The disputed transaction  
was processed in Swiss francs  for a total of £3,943.88 and was a payment to a taxi 
company. Mr T says he has no knowledge of this transaction.
On discovering the transaction, Mr T then reported  it to NatWest as he thought it was 
fraudulent. And asked  the bank to refund him.
NatWest investigated  and refused to refund Mr T. NatWest said:
that prior to and after the transaction Mr T had carried  out genuine transactions so he 
always had possession of his card.
the transaction didnt follow the typical fraudulent behaviour at the time.
they were concerned  by the delay  in notifying  the bank of the transaction.
Mr T had failed  to check his statements and so hadnt reported the transaction  in a 
reasonable timeframe.
Mr T didnt  agree with NatWests decision,  so he asked us to investigate.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld.  In summary she said Mr T had confirmed he had his card with him at all 
times and there had been no point of compromise  for the card. She also thought a fraudster 
would use the card details more than once. She said she would have expected Mr T to have 
raised a complaint sooner  if he hadnt authorised the transaction.
Mr T was unhappy with the investigators view. He said the amount in question  wasnt an 
unusual amount for his credit card bill at the time. He said he usually  checked  his statements 
but at the time he was under stress with a new job and as the balance wasnt  an unexpected  
amount for him, he paid it. He also said that card details can be easily obtained by illicit 
means.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me for decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr T liable  for the disputed  transaction  if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised it himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ts correct  card details were used to 
make the disputed transaction. I have also seen  the authorisation report, which  shows that 
the transaction was keyed in manually  suggesting  it was made by email or phone  and that 
no signature or security  number on the back of the card was required and the card was not 
present.
Ref: DRN71712882But the regulations relevant to this case say that authentication is not, on its own enough  to 
enable NatWest to hold him liable. So, I also need  to think about  whether the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that Mr T consented to the payment being  made.  
From what  Ive seen I dont think its reasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr T 
authorised the transaction. I say this because:
Although the bank  has said Mr Ts card was always in his possession. The 
evidence shows this was a card not present transaction. Therefore, the actual 
card wasnt  needed for the disputed transaction. The fact Mr Ts card was in his 
possession doesnt mean the card number couldnt  be used in a card not present 
transaction by someone else who had obtained his card number without his 
consent. So, Im satisfied its plausible Mr Ts card details  could  have been  
obtained by a fraudster.
Mr T has confirmed  that he was in the UK at the time of the disputed  transaction 
and that his wife who holds the additional  card was in South Africa.  The spending 
on the card at that time shows that to be the case as there  are transactions in the 
UK and in South Africa.
There were  genuine  transactions either  side of the disputed  transaction.  The 
bank has said this shows that the transaction  was not fraudulent,  but I dont 
agree. The disputed transaction was a card not present  transaction. The only 
other transaction on that day  the 12 December 2014   took place in the UK in 
the same  town that Mr T lives in. So, I think its unlikely that Mr T carried out a 
transaction in his home town before he made a sole transaction in Switzerland.
Ive looked  at Mr Ts previous spending  and although I can see he carried  out 
international spending theres  no previous spending to this business and this 
transaction size is unusually  large compared to his normal foreign  transactions.  
This makes me think the transaction was not made by him.
I have seen Mr Ts credit card bills leading up to the transaction and after it. The 
balances of his statement  were high, so it doesnt seem surprising he didnt 
notice this transaction if he was only looking at the total amounts.
Mr T has given  an explanation why he didnt look at his statement, namely  
because the total amount of his credit card bill was not dissimilar to what  he 
expected, and he was under a lot of stress  at work  at the time.  I find this 
explanation plausible.
Taking everything into account  I find on balance Mr T didnt  authorise  the disputed  
transaction. I have  then gone on to consider whether the transaction  was a distance  
transaction.
Considering distance contracts
Under the Payment  Service Regulations  and the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, the consumer 
is usually not liable  for an unauthorised payment transaction, where the transaction involves 
a distance contract. A distance contract  is one made  using distance communication without 
the physical presence  of the trader or consumer (e.g. buying something  online or over the 
phone).
Ref: DRN71712883I have seen evidence  that the card details were  keyed in manually and this was therefore a 
card not present transaction.  As the disputed transaction was made  as a card not present 
transaction either by phone, online or mail order and its not an excepted contract, NatWest 
cant hold Mr T liable for it. It follows that NatWest should refund him the amount of the 
disputed transaction.
I have considered the delay in reporting the transaction to the bank.
Mr T didnt  report  the disputed transaction until 4 years after it occurred. The bank says he 
must have  known about the transaction before then and should  have  reported  it. I think  its 
more likely he didnt report it because he didnt know there  had been  a transaction.
I am satisfied that Mr T didnt delay reporting  the disputed transaction to the bank as soon as 
he became aware  of it. The bank says Mr T ought to have checked  his statements at least  
every thirteen months.  However, NatWest  havent  been able to show  me the terms and 
conditions of the credit card at the time of the disputed transaction. Without this I cant agree 
that Mr T was aware he needed to check his statements every thirteen months.
In conclusion I find that Mr T didnt authorise  the transaction and as its a distance  contract  
NatWest cannot hold him liable. So, my provisional decision was that NatWest  should refund 
Mr T £3,943.88 and the non-sterling transaction fee of £108.46 Together with 8% simple 
interest from the date of the disputed transaction to the date of settlement. I have gone on to 
consider the delay and for all the reasons  mentioned above  I find that NatWest should 
refund Mr T the disputed  transaction.
So subject to any further representations by Mr T and NatWest I was minded to uphold the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T has said he has nothing further  to add to the decision. NatWest  has also said it has 
nothing further  to add to the decision.
My findings
Although Mr T and NatWest have  not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN71712884My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster  Bank  Plc.
I direct  national  Westminster bank Plc to do the following to resolve the complaint.
refund  Mr T £3,943.88  and the non-sterling  transaction fee of £108.46 
Pay Mr T 8% simple  interest from the date of the disputed transaction  to the date of 
settlement *
*If National  Westminster  bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
(HMRC) to withhold income tax from those parts of the award constituting the 8% interest, it 
should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7171288