K821x#15complaint
Mr L says PDL Finance  Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Mr L took out four loans with Mr Lender between January and November  2016.   A summary 
of Mr Ls borrowing history is set out below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment  
Amount
1 10/01/2016 31/03/2016 3 £200.00 £99.74
2 15/04/2016 29/07/2016 3 £400.00 £267.73
3 30/07/2016 31/10/2016 3 £500.00 £298.66
4 15/11/2016 30/11/2016 3 £500.00 £246.67
Mr L said that he couldnt afford the loans and the amounts he had to pay back. He 
complained that these  sums took up such a large  proportion  of his wages that he had to 
borrow again for him to be able to afford the next months expenses. And he has also told us 
that Mr Lender should have realised from the number of times he had borrowed that his debt 
problems were getting worse. Mr L wants Mr Lender to refund the interest and any charges  
he paid on the loans together with statutory interest. He also asked that any negative 
information in his credit records be deleted.
In its final response to Mr L, Mr Lender  rejected Mr Ls complaint. It said it did not believe it 
had acted irresponsibly  and the loans issued were fair and should have been affordable 
based on the information provided at the time,  the checks  carried  out and Mr Ls ability  to 
pay.
Our adjudicator couldnt say it was unfair for Mr Lender to provide loans 1 and 2 to Mr L. But 
he thought loans 3 and 4 should not have been given and upheld this part of the complaint. 
He said that proportionate  checks for loan 3 would likely have shown Mr L was having 
problems managing his money  and by loan 4 the pattern of lending  showed the loans were 
unsustainable. Mr Lender didnt accept this view,  so, the complaint has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN73441272But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.  Ive decided  that loans 1 and 2 were 
fairly given  to Mr L. But I dont think Mr Lender should have provided  Mr L loans  3 and 4. I 
will explain  why I have reached  this decision.
When Mr Lender  gave  Mr L loans 1 and 2, I think  the checks Mr Lender did were 
proportionate and the information provided  by Mr L would  have  likely  indicated that these 
loans were affordable.  These were Mr Ls first two loans and the repayments were low in 
relation to Mr Ls income. I think it was fair for Mr Lender to rely on this information when it 
provided loans  1 and 2 and I dont think it would have been proportionate to ask for any 
further information which might have indicated  repayment of the loans  was unsustainable. 
So, I cant say Mr Lender did anything  wrong in providing Mr L with loans 1 and 2.
By the time Mr Lender provided loan 3, the amount of Mr Ls borrowing had increased, and 
he took out his loan on or around the same  day as repaying loan 2. Mr L had borrowed  three  
times in a period of six months. By now,  I think  Mr Lender should have realised that there 
were signs  that Mr L was having longer  term problems managing his money. So, it should  
have made  better checks to see that Mr L could sustainably repay  his loans.
Ref: DRN73441273As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for this loan it would most likely  have 
shown that Mr L was paying  a significant amount to other short-term lenders. Mr L had three 
other short-term lending commitments. If Mr Lender had found out this information after 
making proportionate checks  it would likely have seen that Mr L couldnt make  his 
repayments to this loan in a sustainable  way.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mr L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because by loan 4 Mr L appears  to have been persistently reliant on short term 
loans.
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised  Mr L was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr L had taken out four loans within ten months  and Mr L had been indebted to 
Mr Lender for all that time save for thirty days in total. So, Mr Lender ought to have  realised 
it was more likely than not Mr L was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Mr Ls first loan was for £200.00 and loan 4 was for £500.00.   At this point Mr Lender ought 
to have known  that Mr L was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income  
but to meet  an ongoing need. 
I think that Mr L lost out because Mr Lender  continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The length of time over which Mr L borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ls ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 3 and loan 4 and Mr Lender should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Ls credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about Mr L is adverse.  So, all entries  about loan 4 should  be removed from Mr Ls 
credit file.
Ref: DRN73441274 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7344127