K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains that Portafina LLP (formerly Portal Financial  Services LLP)  wrongly  advised  
him to transfer a defined benefit  occupational pension scheme (OPS) and two defined 
contribution pension plans to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP).
Background
Although there is an accepted difference in terminology  between  a pension  transfer from a 
defined benefit  scheme and a pension switch from a defined contribution plan, I will, for 
simplicity, refer to all three transactions here as transfers.
Mr H was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another  business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
On 26 March 2014 Firm C wrote to Portafina and enclosed letters of authority signed by 
Mr H authorising Portafina to obtain information  about his three existing pension plans. 
Firm C also completed a fact find which was later passed to Portafina.  It documented the 
following about Mr H:
He was 56 years old, single and in good  health
He was employed as a security officer earning £22,000 a year, providing a net 
income of £1,800  per month.  His regular monthly  commitments  were £700 to £750, 
This included loan repayments of £104  per month, which  were expected to come  to 
an end soon
Hed worked for the same employer for 15 years and was a current member of his 
employers OPS
There were  no foreseeable  changes in Mr Hs circumstances
He was a home owner with no mortgage.  The estimated value of his property was 
£166K
He had an ISA worth £6,000
He wanted  to retire at aged 65
The fact find included a risk profiling questionnaire (RPQ) which  documented some  of the 
following responses from Mr H:
When it comes  to investing how would you describe  yourself?   A fair degree of 
understanding / knowledge
How important is it to you to know that all of your investments are accessible should 
you require the funds for emergency  purposes? Important
Some investments borrow money to increase  the total amount invested. By doing  this 
it increases the risk to you as an individual especially if the product is unable to repay 
the amount borrowed. How important therefore  is it to you to avoid such risks?  Very  
important
How important is it to you to know that your funds you invest  in only trade  in socially 
responsible areas of investment?  Neither important or not important
How important is it for you to be able to vary the underlying  risks associated  with your 
Ref: DRN71731572investments in line with changes  in your personal  circumstances? Very important
Investment timeframe  when  do you intend to use the invested money?  No fixed 
term
Investment liquidity  If you needed  sudden access to a lump  sum how likely is it that 
you would need to encash this investment? I have other savings and investments  
which I can use for most needs
Please tick the statement that best describes you: I have previously held investments 
but do not currently have any
The information obtained by Portafina about  Mr Hs three existing pension plans can be 
summarised as follows:
Mr Hs OPS with his former employer
 
A cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £31,363 representing 7 years  3 months 
pensionable service  
The deferred pension  at date of leaving service  was around £1,160  a year but this 
would revalue in deferment until payment and once in payment the pension  would 
continue to increase  each  year
The scheme offered  a dependents pension equivalent to 66.67% of the members 
pension both in the event  of death before or after retirement. In the event of death 
before retirement  there would also be a return of contributions
The Normal  Retirement Date (NRD)  was 8 November 2017  when Mr H would be 60 
years old
Early retirement was at the discretion of the Trustees
An early retirement quotation  said that from 1 May 2014 Mr H could be entitled  to an 
immediate pension  of £1,121.16 a year or maximum tax-free  cash  (TFC) of 
£5,706.09 and reduced pension of £855.96 a year
The scheme was not fully funded  but the transfer  value  had not been reduced
Portafina produced  a transfer value analysis report (TVAS)  which recorded that the growth  
rate (critical  yield) needed for a new personal pension to provide equivalent OPS retirement 
benefits was a critical yield of 22.3% at age 60. But if Mr H used income drawdown to 
access benefits, instead of purchasing an annuity, then over his lifetime  the investment 
return (hurdle rate) needed to match his OPS  was 4.41% per year. 
Mr Hs Retirement Annuity Contract  (RAC)
The plan was a traditional With-Profits arrangement invested in a Long-Term Fund, 
which comprised of cash & bonds.  The transfer value was £13,760.04
The Selected Retirement Date (SRD)  was 1 September 2024  when Mr H would be 
66 years  old
The plan offered a guaranteed  annuity  rate (GAR) of £3,591 payable annually  from 
the SRD.  This was the minimum annual amount payable from the SRD. There  was 
also a guaranteed fund value of £22,403 from the SRD
Portafina produced  an annuity comparison report which calculated that a fund of £46,410 
would be required to purchase an equivalent  annuity  to the GAR at age 65, which  would 
require a growth rate of 48.6% a year based on the current  transfer  value.
Mr Hs personal  pension  plan (PPP)
Ref: DRN71731573As at 7 April 2014 the transfer value  was £34,590.10
A 1% annual management  charge  applied
The plan was invested 100% in a Pension Managed Series  1 fund
Portafina completed its own fact find, which confirmed  much of the same information  as Firm 
Cs. The accompanying RPQ confirmed some of the following responses given by Mr H;
Chosen retirement age - 65
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person - strongly  agree. 
I feel comfortable about investing  in the stockmarket - disagree
I generally look for safer investments, even if it means lower returns  - agree
Usually it takes me a long time to make  up my mind on financial matte rs - agree
I associate the word  'risk' with the idea of 'opportunity' - strongly  disagree
I generally prefer bank  deposits to riskier  investments  - strongly agree
I prefer alternative investments which are considered to be less volatile,  even if it 
reduces liquidity - strongly agree
I find investment matters easy to understand - agree
I am willing to take substantial financial  risk to earn substantial  returns - strongly 
disagree
I've little experience of investing in stocks and shares - agree
I tend to be anxious about  the investment decisions I've made  - agree
Id rather take my chances  with high risk investments than increase the amount I'm 
saving - strongly disagree
I'm concerned by the volatility of stockmarket  investments  - strongly agree
Notes from a telephone call took which took place between Portafina  and Mr H included  the 
following: 
Client happy with Attitude  to Investment Risk  Yes
Client happy with estimated  investment  return rate  Yes
Critical Yield been discussed?  Yes
Lifetime Hurdle Rate been discussed?  Yes
How important is it for you to maximise the amount of Tax Free Cash you can draw? 
 no opinion
How important is it for you to maximise death  benefits or preserve higher pension 
payments for your loved ones?   no opinion
Wants max TFC from all plans now to make  home improvements. He does not want  
an income now. Client aware that he would be giving  up GARs () but he wants  
TFC & have  the residual  funds consolidated.
On 21 August 2014 Portafina produced a suitability report (SR) setting out its advice. In 
summary the report said:
Mr Hs Main Stated Objectives were:
- Would  like later retirement age to scheme  normal retirement age. Being able to 
draw income from age 66 onwards would be a useful benefit and the flexibility  to do 
so was important
- Lifetime hurdle rate was acceptable
- Projected  future returns were acceptable
Ref: DRN71731574- Willing to take more risk
- Did not want an escalating annuity
- Maximising  tax-free cash at age 56 for home improvements
- Future Drawdown
- Specific investment (move away from equity backed)
- Consolidation
- Performance
Mr Hs RAC was currently  performing  at 0.05% per annum (average over 5 years) 
and a terminal bonus of £106  applied. His PPP was performing at 11.82% per annum 
(average over 5 years)
Mr Hs risk profile suggested he was a moderately adventurous investor. Based on 
this risk classification, Portafina  estimated  a personal pension  invested in a suitable 
model portfolio  could  achieve targeted returns of 6.445%,  not including advice and 
plan charges
Based  on his circumstances, other retirement  provision, chosen  retirement  age and 
future capital needs, Portafina believed Mr H had the capacity  to absorb potential 
losses and shoulder risk in pursuit  of [his] overall pension objectives. It noted  Mr H 
would also be entitled to a state  pension and had another pension  relating to 7 years-
service with his current employer
Although Portafina wasnt  providing  advice regarding where Mr Hs fund would be 
invested after a transfer  this would be given by Firm C  it set out its fund 
recommendations suggesting that, due to his risk profile,  Mr H invest  in the following 
assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 70%
Other Fixed Interest 5%
Secured Structured  Bonds 15%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and 
could only be recommended by authorised and regulated independent financial 
advisers (IFAs)  such as itself. It said that while secured  bonds  werent  covered by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations relating to 
them were.  It added that secured bonds  werent unstable and therefore  reduced the 
overall volatility of Mr Hs portfolio
Portafinas initial advice fee would be 5% of the total transfer value, of which 2% 
would be paid to Firm C as part of an introducer agreement. The annual  
management charge  for the new SIPP would  be 0.5% a year
Having considered all the information,  Portafina recommended that Mr H transfer his 
three plans to a SIPP. Some of the reasons given  for this were;
- Based on the growth  rate required as a result of Mr H taking benefits  via income 
drawdown it believed  a transfer was likely  to increase the overall pension  and 
TFC benefits available to him 
- A suitable model  portfolio for Mr H could achieve  targeted returns  of 6.445% 
before initial  and ongoing advice charges  and plan charges 
Ref: DRN71731575- Transferring would  give Mr H ownership and control over his retirement fund
- If Mr H died in retirement, 100% of the fund would be passed to named  
beneficiaries, free of tax
- Transferring would  allow  Mr H to draw 25% of his fund value immediately
The SR enclosed  a declaration which Mr H signed  and returned.  It included the following 
statements:
I fully understand  what  the Critical Yield is and I am aware that it is unlikely  that my 
recommended scheme is going  to achieve a growth  rate of 22.30%  to match the 
guaranteed benefits  held with the [OPS].
I am aware that I will lose the Guaranteed Pension of £1,451 pa payable  from age 60 
by transferring my benefits to an alternative  pension arrangement and understand  
that I may be worse  off in retirement.
I am fully aware that by transferring to an alternative pension arrangement,  I will be 
losing the Guaranteed Annuity Rate that I currently have () and understand that I 
may be worse off in retirement.
The recommended  SIPP was established in October 2014, to which  the total value  of Mr Hs 
plans (approximately  £84,000)  was transferred. Mr H later withdrew his full TFC entitlement.  
The servicing rights for the SIPP were later transferred over to Firm C, who invested  Mr Hs 
SIPP fund as follows:
Unregulated collective investment  schemes  (UCIS)
Brisa Investments  £3,700
Biomass Investments  £5,800 
UK Strategic  Residential  £3,700
Lakeview UK Holdings   £5,800
Real Estate Investments USA plc  £5,800 
Regulated investments
Marlborough ETF Global   £5,749.77
VT iFunds Green  £6,900.92
VT iFunds Indigo  £7,475
VT iFunds Orange   £9,774.31
In June 2017, with the assistance of a claims management company, Mr H complained to 
Portafina about the advice  he received  to transfer. 
Portafina considered  Mr Hs complaint and concluded that it had provided suitable advice (in 
line with his circumstances, needs  and objectives  at the time) and acted  in his best interests. 
It said it only provided the advice to transfer Mr Hs existing  plans to facilitate drawdown and 
had provided enough  information for Mr H to make  an informed decision. Portafina  said it 
hadnt provided specific investment advice as this was given by Firm C. 
Unhappy with Portafinas response  to his complaint, Mr H referred  the matter  to our service.  
An adjudicator considered  the matter and concluded  that Mr Hs complaint should be partly 
upheld. Although he didnt find that Portafinas transfer advice was suitable, he didnt think it 
was responsible for the investment advice given by Firm C. 
Ref: DRN71731576Mr H agreed with the adjudicators findings that the transfer advice was unsuitable but 
disagreed that Portafina wasnt responsible for the investments made  following its advice. 
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case was referred for a final decision.
Prior to the complaint being  allocated to an ombudsman, Mr Hs complaint was reviewed,  
and a second view was issued on 2 March  2021.  Reasoning was provided for why it was felt 
the complaint  should be upheld in full. This included why Portafina was considered to be 
responsible for all of Mr Hs losses as a result of the transfer and what the appropriate 
redress methodology should be. 
Mr H accepted the findings  of the second  view but Portafina didnt respond.  The case  has 
now been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing this, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mr H to transfer  his three  existing  plans to a SIPP  but says it didnt provide 
any recommendation regarding the investments held within  the SIPP  as Firm C was meant  
to provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated  firm to advise on and 
arrange Mr Hs underlying SIPP investments, I dont think  that meant Portafinas 
responsibilities ended  once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then 
made available for investment. I believe that as Mr Hs financial adviser, Portafina still had a 
duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated 
firm was going to be involved. 
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mr H should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a 
model portfolio  for a moderately adventurous investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Mr H 
was. And its partly  on the basis that Mr H invested in line with a suitable  model  portfolio and 
achieved the relevant  targeted  returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase 
his overall pension benefits and therefore be worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Ref: DRN71731577Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
The regulators 2014 alert added:  
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr H it wasnt  providing  
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to Mr 
H under  the regulatory system.  So, saying  it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Hs funds  would  be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr H. To achieve this, COBS  9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr H to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
Ref: DRN71731578() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Hs objectives  one of 
which was recorded  as to make  specific  investments  and the related risks. It wasnt free to 
ignore how Mr Hs funds  were going  to be invested irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I 
consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating 
to the SIPP,  so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without knowing what  Mr H 
would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Hs transferred funds would  ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated 
and able to provide investment advice  with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Hs appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Hs best interests.  And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Hs funds  would be invested. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Portafina, at any point, checked to see how Firm C 
broadly proposed to invest Mr Hs funds. I believe it should have, given the unavoidable 
connection this had to the transfer it was proposing.  Portafina couldnt reasonably assess 
the suitability of the transfer it was recommending without doing  so. 
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, a large proportion of Mr Hs 
SIPP was invested  in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings  are relevant here. 
Here it said that as well as UCIS only being  eligible for promotion to certain customers  
(generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer 
was deemed eligible  for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's 
exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Hs case, 
over 40% of his SIPP  which  represented a significant proportion of his total retirement  
provision  was invested  in UCIS.  I dont think UCIS was suitable  for Mr H at all, let alone in 
the proportion  invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr H had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept  or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mr H so heavily in UCIS,  it couldve queried this given 
how at odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset  allocation  for Mr H was. And 
in the event that Portafina had been misled by Firm C as to the proposed  investments, then 
its likely  Mr H wouldve  realised that the investments Firm C went  on to arrange differed to 
Ref: DRN71731579those Portafina  had based  its suitability  assessment  on. And Mr H couldve taken action 
accordingly.
Portafina may have  completed due diligence checks on Firm C before agreeing to accept 
client referrals  from it. But it wasnt enough  for it to rely on general information provided  to it 
at the start of its relationship with Firm C; that wouldnt have been a reasonable basis  for 
Portafina to have assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr H.   In  my view, it 
shouldve done  more to ensure it understood the types of investments Firm C would be 
recommending, and in particular  in connection with Mr Hs proposed transfer.  
Im conscious that, despite Portafina  saying  that Firm C was to provide the investment 
advice, it did set out in in its suitability report its recommendations  for the asset  classes Mr H 
should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations  made up a model portfolio for a 
moderately adventurous investor, which Portafina  satisfied  itself Mr H was. 
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Hs risk rating as moderately adventurous  
Ill explain  why later  or its recommendation he invest 15% of his transferred funds in 
secure structured bonds. These are described in the suitability report as asset back  debt 
securities that are issued  for a fix term. The report  goes on to explain that these are not 
covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And that there  are credit 
risks - due to the possibility of the company borrowing the money going into default - and 
liquidity risks. In my view,  this puts them at the higher end of the risk spectrum  and would 
generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly  modest  
pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 15% of Mr Hs 
pension fund in unregulated and potentially illiquid  funds, wouldve been suitable for a client  
in Mr Hs position. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr H. It shouldve  asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr H that it couldnt recommend he transfer away  from his three plans in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr H against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr H wouldve listened to it and not gone  ahead with the 
transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr H when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer  meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mr Hs 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Hs SIPP  was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Hs funds were  ultimately  invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important  consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Mr H wouldve  ultimately gone  on to invest as he did.
The advice  to transfer 
Ref: DRN717315710OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  will be in the consumers best interests.  And 
generally, a transfer  will only be in the consumers  best interests if theres  a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
Its worth  noting that much like an OPS  and its valuable guarantees, some RACs offer 
safeguarded benefits, but in the form of a GAR.  So, like his OPS,  the recommendation to 
transfer Mr Hs RAC warranted careful  consideration and justification  before any action was 
taken. 
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr H was 56 years old, employed and in good  health. He 
was a standard retail investor with nine or ten years until he intended to retire. His OPS  & 
RAC represented a substantial  proportion  of his retirement provision. They  each provided a 
guaranteed income and the OPS also guaranteed increases both before and after 
retirement. Based on this I think Portafina  should  have  recognised  the significance of Mr Hs 
OPS & RAC and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS  & RAC meant that Mr H would be losing his guarantees and instead 
relying on investment  performance from a new scheme. But I dont think  his situation  lent 
itself to taking such  risks. I think it shouldve been clear that while Mr H may have  been  open 
to taking some risk, he wasnt prepared or able to take a significant  amount. 
Based on a risk profile questionnaire  Mr H completed,  Portafina said it believed  he had a 
moderately adventurous ATR. Portafinas  suitability report described this as someone who 
was a fairly experienced investor  whod used a range of investment products in the past; 
typically had moderate  to high levels of financial knowledge; usually kept up to date on 
financial matters; was willing to take risk with a substantial proportion  of their available 
assets and who would  usually take gambles.  
Although Mr H didnt disagree  with being categorized as moderately adventurous, his 
answers to the risk assessment indicated he was not willing  to take sizable investment risks. 
His ATR needed to be considered in the context of his overall circumstances.  While a 
consumer may indicate theyre prepared to take investment risk, this willingness isnt the 
only factor  to consider in providing suitable  advice nor does it fundamentally  alter their 
capacity to accept  losses  the degree of risk Mr H was able to take was a key 
consideration. 
In assessing Mr Hs capacity for loss Portafina said it considered factors like Mr Hs chosen  
retirement age, other retirement provision and future  capital needs.  Having  done  so, it 
Ref: DRN717315711concluded that he had the capacity to absorb potential losses  and shoulder risk in pursuit of 
[his] overall pension objectives. It also stated Overall, you [Mr H] have stated you could 
afford to lose 10% of your fund before it affects  your standard  of living  considerably." But its 
not entirely clear  to me how Portafina reached  this conclusion, particularly when there was 
no quantification of his current employers retirement  provision  or anything to suggest  Mr H 
had other  resources he could rely on if transferring didnt  work out. 
Portafina also didnt  appear to establish  what Mr Hs future  liabilities and income 
requirements were likely to be. So, while with nine to ten years  until he intended  to retire, Mr 
H may have  had an investment horizon over which he could potentially build up additional 
pension provision, Portafina couldnt say with confidence that transferring was necessary to 
meet his future income needs or that he wasnt likely to be heavily  dependent  on his OPS 
and RAC  in retirement.
Based on what was known of Mr Hs circumstances and experience, I dont think  it was 
reasonable to conclude  that moderately adventurous accurately reflected the investment 
risk he was prepared  to take. I think it wouldve  been more reasonable to conclude that he 
was a relatively cautious or, at most, balanced investor. As Ive said, there was nothing to 
indicate Mr H had any previous investment experience or high levels of relevant knowledge. 
And I do not feel that it was demonstrated  that he was in a position to tolerate the additional 
risks hed be taking by transferring. Any significant  loss as a result  of this would  clearly  have 
a serious impact on his future retirement  provision.
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed)  the benefits  that are being  given up by transferring  out of the OPS.  And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including  the investors  
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator  required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension  scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension  scheme  or 
stakeholder pension scheme,  before  it advises  a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits  pension scheme;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3.give the retail client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the retail client's attention to 
the factors that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key 
features document is provided;  and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's  comparison 
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1.take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
Ref: DRN717315712Portafinas advice  was given at a time when  there  were no industry  standard  projection rates 
to assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers  weren't  required to refer to these rates  when 
giving advice on pension  transfers, I consider they provide  a useful indication of what  growth 
rates would have  been considered reasonably  achievable when the advice was given  in this 
case.
In terms of the investment risk Mr H would be taking on by transferring, Portafina produced a 
Transfer Value  Analysis  (TVAS)  report in respect of the OPS. This showed the critical yield 
required to match benefits from the OPS was 22.3%. So, the transfer value needed  to 
consistently grow at a rate of around  22.3% each year for him not to be financially worse off 
by transferring. But if the transfer was only going  to match the benefits  given  up thered be 
little point in transferring  there  needed  to be a reasonable prospect Mr H would be better 
off. So, I think a return closer to 23.3%, which far exceeded  the highest  maximum  projected  
growth rate at the time, would have been  required for Mr H to gain any advantage. Im not 
satisfied that was a reasonable  expectation.
Although not disclosed  in its suitability report,  Portafina also calculated  that the transfer 
value from the RAC would need to consistently  grow at a rate of 48.6% each year to be able 
to purchase the guaranteed annuity at age 65. 
In the context of the regulators assumed future  growth rates,  the growth rates  required to 
match the benefits being given up under  both the OPS and RAC were  incredibly high.  
However, Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime  hurdle rate  determined to be 
4.41% - instead  of the critical yield, saying it operated under the assumption that Mr H 
wouldnt choose to purchase an annuity  and instead preferred to take benefits via income  
drawdown. It argues  that as it knew drawdown was more suitable for what Mr H was looking 
to achieve with his retirement planning, the critical yield was irrelevant.  
I dont agree with Portafinas position here and think it tends to underplay the importance of 
the critical yield and overstates the significance of the hurdle  rate. I say this because Mr H 
didnt intend to take an income from his pension for another nine or ten years and had no 
fixed plan on how he would take this. It was simply too far in the future to reasonably predict 
his income needs  in this respect.
As set out above, the regulators  guidance was that Portafinas comparison  should have 
regard for the benefits and options available under Mr Hs OPS  and the effect of replacing  
them with the benefits and options under the proposed  scheme. As I understand it, Mr Hs 
OPS provided a 66.67% widows pension and it escalated  in retirement. But I havent  seen  
anything to suggest Portafinas  hurdle rate made provision  for this, so it didnt appear  to 
replicate the benefits he was giving up. And as the regulator said this formed  part of 
Portafinas duty to ensure Mr H had enough  information to make  an informed decision about 
whether to transfer, I think its use of the hurdle rate fell short of what was required in the 
circumstances. 
Im mindful of the contents of the Declaration enclosed  with the Suitability Report which  Mr H 
ultimately signed. However,  irrespective of what this may have purported to indicate about 
Mr Hs perceived  understanding  of the critical yield or acceptance of Portafina  using  the 
hurdle rate, I dont think this makes  its use of the hurdle  rate appropriate. Especially as this 
Ref: DRN717315713was largely based  on what  was in my view a weak assumption that Mr H would  most  likely 
take benefits via income drawdown  when  he retired. 
With regard to the RAC the Declaration stated, I am fully aware that by transferring to an 
alternative pension  arrangement, I will be losing the Guaranteed Annuity Rate that I currently  
have (), and understand  that I may be worse  off in retirement. However, Portafina 
provided no explanation in the SR to substantiate  this statement. For instance, there was no 
mention that the new plan would need to grow consistently by 48.6%  each  year to be able to 
purchase an annuity to match the income  that could be provided  by the GAR, which would  
have set out in stark terms the possible value  of the guarantee  Mr H would give up by 
transferring.
While I accept that Mr H expressed some interest  in flexibility,  control  and drawdown, I dont 
think there was anything to suggest  these were a significant priority  or such important 
factors to Mr H that transferring for this reason  would outweigh the likelihood  he could be 
worse off.
Mr H said he didnt intend to retire until age 65 or 66. At 56 years old  at least  9 years 
before his planned retirement  I dont  think he needed to transfer out of his OPS in order  to 
access drawdown in years to come. If Mr H reached the stage where he knew  exactly  what 
he required  in terms of how he wanted  to take retirement benefits  he couldve considered his 
options at that point  and where necessary transferred. Im also mindful that Mr H had 
minimal investment knowledge and experience. So, I think  it shouldve been evident  to 
Portafina that while he might desire more control over his fund, Mr H was unlikely to be  let 
alone remain  capable of managing his investments and pension benefits  himself into old 
age. 
Overall, I dont  think it was reasonable for Portafina  to assume there was a strong  
possibility Mr H would use the drawdown option in retirement and partly rely on this as a 
reason to justify  its transfer advice. Im not satisfied theres enough  to demonstrate  
transferring for this reason was something  Portafina  sufficiently explored  with Mr H or that 
compelling reasons  were  provided such that it was reasonable to conclude sacrificing the 
guarantees under his OPS & RAC was in his best interests. 
Another reason  put forward by Portafina to justify its recommendation that Mr H transfer his 
pensions, was so he could maximise and immediately  access  TFC to pay for home  
improvements. 
The OPS  NRD was 8 November 2017 at age 60 but early retirement  was possible at the 
discretion of the Trustees. I note that in 2014 the scheme administrator provided Portafina 
with an immediate early  retirement quote for Mr Hs OPS. With a transfer  value of £31,463,  
Mr Hs immediate maximum tax-free cash  entitlement under his OPS was £5,706, which was 
less than the 25% he could expect from transferring. So, I accept  that transferring the OPS 
would increase his tax-free cash entitlement. And under the OPS Mr H didnt  have the option 
to take TFC and defer taking a regular pension income.
There was no option to take the GAR from Mr Hs RAC  before  age 60. Taking benefits at this 
stage would result in the loss of the GAR.
Although there were  obvious restrictions to how benefits could  be accessed under Mr Hs 
OPS and RAC, this didnt  automatically make transferring the most appropriate option. The 
Ref: DRN717315714perceived benefit of side-stepping these  restrictions needed to be carefully considered  
bearing in mind Mr Hs overall  circumstances,  objectives, ATR and capacity for loss.  
Portafina didnt  identify what home  improvements Mr H wanted to make,  the cost of these  or 
how important they were. It simply accepted this was what  Mr H wanted to do and that  
transferring was a way to ensure this objective  was met. The SR set out alternatives to 
transferring, however limited detail was provided and certainly not enough to demonstrate 
that transferring  was the most appropriate option for Mr H, especially when bearing in mind 
what his long term retirement needs might be. Overall, Im not persuaded Portafina 
sufficiently demonstrated  that a need for immediate TFC or maximising  this was a 
compelling enough reason for Mr H to transfer. 
The nature of death benefits in the OPS and RAC were very different to what would be 
available in the SIPP. But Mr H was single with no dependants and according to Portafina  
hed confirmed he had no opinion on the importance  of maximising  death benefits. So, I 
dont think death  benefits were an important  factor.
Although Mr Hs PPP didnt offer any guarantees, the size of the transfer value meant  that it 
formed a significant  part of Mr Hs retirement  provision.
Portafinas SR confirmed  that the fund Mr Hs PPP was invested  in had over the previous 
five years been achieving an average of 11.82% growth per annum. Although past 
performance isnt a guarantee of future performance,  I cant see that there was anything  to 
suggest there had been or were  likely  to be any problems with the fund Mr H was invested 
in, such that he needed  to transfer to a new arrangement and target  even higher 
performance. And bearing in mind  that risk and reward are inextricably linked, I think  it 
wouldve also been clear  that targeting more  favourable investment performance  would likely 
require an investment approach which exceeded  what was suitable  for Mr H. It seems  to me 
that the Managed fund Mr Hs PPP was invested in was broadly in line with what Portafina  
ought to have determined his ATR to be. 
I have considered whether there  was any other  compelling reasons for the transfer of Mr Hs 
PPP but I dont  think there  were.  The PPP charges were low and there was no meaningful  
difference in death benefits  between the PPP and the SIPP.  
In my view no real context or sound  justification was provided by Portafina for what  it 
identified as Mr Hs objectives.  Although  I appreciate retirement planning  may have  regard 
for an individuals general preferences, its primary focus should be a consumers personal 
circumstances with a view to putting  them in the best possible position at retirement, with the 
appropriate income provision in place long-term.  
So, it wasnt  Portafinas role to simply justify and make  the transfer happen because it 
appeared to cater to Mr Hs purported objectives.  It had a responsibility to challenge these 
objectives and not accept  them at face value. To meet the regulators requirement to know 
your customer, Portafina had to collect information regarding  Mr Hs specific  objectives, 
rather than relying on the generic ones which may have been put forward.   I cant  see that it 
did this and I dont  think Mr H was provided  with a clear picture of the extent of what  was 
available under his plans,  compared to the perceived benefit  of transferring to meet his 
recorded objectives. So overall, Im not satisfied  it was appropriate  for Portafinas reasons 
for the transfer,  which in my view werent compelling, to be the basis  for its recommendation.
Ref: DRN717315715Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
In terms of costs associated with its recommendation, it seems to me Portafina only partly  
set out what these were. Portafina included the adviser and SIPP  charges in its suitability 
report, however  by not considering the impact  of the costs of the intended investment 
strategy, I think Portafina failed to take appropriate  steps to ensure the complete suitability of 
its recommendation. Although Portafina said the strategy it was recommending  might cost 
more than Mr Hs existing  arrangement,  it needed to justify any potential  costs as a result of 
the transfer in light of Mr Hs needs  and present this in a way he was likely to understand. 
The cost of the switch along  with SIPP and investment charges would all play a role in 
determining what the investment returns  would  ultimately be. So, weighing  up all the costs 
associated with its recommendation was a crucial part of Portafinas consideration of the 
suitability of its advice.  Any additional  costs needed  to be acceptable  in terms of the specific 
benefit Mr H needed.  Portafina made no meaningful attempt  to do this.
Overall, transferring was a significant  transaction; the importance of which I think  the basis 
and content of Portafinas advice failed to reflect. 
I dont think the advice for Mr H to transfer was suitable and think it presented a level of risk 
above what he shouldve  been advised  to take.  Accordingly, I dont  think it was in his best 
interests. Although  Portafina provided Mr H with information about the transfer, I dont 
believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for him to make  an 
informed decision about whether to transfer .
Under COBS 19.1.6 (3) the regulator  says a firm should only consider  a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence  that the transfer  is in the 
clients best interests. Im afraid I dont think Portafina met this test in this case.  I dont agree 
that making the recommendation on the basis that it met Mr Hs recorded  objectives was 
enough. 
Would Mr H have gone ahead with the transfer anyway?
 
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to transfer, Mr H 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  anyway.  Having carefully considered  all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe  he would.  Theres nothing  to suggest that he was 
seriously considering  transferring out of his existing plans prior to being referred to Portafina 
for a pension review.  My understanding is that this referral came about  as a result  of him 
being cold-called. Mr H didnt appear  to be proactively seeking transfer advice.
Although further  to his discussions with Portafina,  Mr H did seem to express  some  interest  in 
transferring, he didnt demonstrate any clear motivations for doing so. 
Mr H didnt really  appear willing to take significant risks with his pension in the way Portafina  
suggested a moderately adventurous investor would. 
I think it was clear from the outset that Mr H was seeking to rely on the comprehensive  
information and suitable advice he reasonably expected to obtain  from Portafina. And I think 
Portafinas failings  in appropriately  assessing  the overall suitability of the transaction  it was 
recommending played  a pivotal role in his decision  to transfer.  I think  its unlikely that Mr H 
Ref: DRN717315716wouldve opted to transfer when he did, had he been advised that in doing  so hed be 
making a permanent and irreversible decision about  his future  based  on circumstances 
which could reasonably have been anticipated to change over the nine to ten intervening  
years between Portafinas advice and when  he intended to retire.  
Had he been appropriately advised,  I think its more  likely that Mr H would have chosen to 
maintain the status quo with his OPS, RAC & PPP until such  time as he knew  exactly what 
his position was and identified a specific and pressing need which could only be addressed 
by taking action.
As a professional adviser  which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr H from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its 
possible Mr H may still have  wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think,  at the very least,  if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made him think  about things. 
Alternatively, had Mr H proceeded against such advice, Portafina  couldve discharged  its 
professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mr H was acting against the advice hed 
been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr H are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Portafina. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont  believe 
he would  have gone ahead with the transfers or invested a significant proportion of his fund 
in UCIS. 
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Hs losses
Im satisfied that the advice Portafina  provided  was unsuitable and the losses  suffered 
by Mr H are as a result  of its inappropriate advice to him to transfer his existing plans 
to a SIPP. And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, Mr H wouldnt have been in a 
position to invest  as he did through Firm C. Because of this I consider Portafina wholly  
responsible for Mr Hs resulting losses.
Im not asking Portafina to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the loss in question. I 
recognise that Firm Cs actions may also have contributed  to Mr Hs loss. So I have 
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think its fair to make an award for the 
whole loss against Portafina.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to advise  about the transfer  of deferred OPS  benefits, it referred Mr H to 
Portafina. Portafina advised Mr H to transfer  to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for 
the existing plans to be transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr H to invest a 
significant share of his SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  
that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP  was wrong;  it needed 
to consider the proposed  investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr H on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Mr H accessed the funds 
in his OPS and AVC.  Portafinas role was pivotal,  since the eventual  investments were fully 
Ref: DRN717315717reliant on the transfer taking place; if Mr H hadnt  transferred,  he couldnt have invested as 
he did. And, as was clearly  set out in the regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  
Portafina  couldnt  restrict  its advice  merely  to the transfer;  it had to consider  the 
proposed  investments  for Mr H, which  it didnt  do. 
As Ive said above,  Im also not satisfied  that the suggested  portfolio  that was set out in 
the suitability  report  was suitable  for Mr H. So, while  I accept  that Firm C might  also bear 
some  responsibility  for Mr Hs losses,  Im satisfied  that had it not been  for Portafinas  
failings,  Mr H wouldnt  have  suffered  a loss at all.
I appreciate  that Firm C is in liquidation  but Im aware  that, as a fund of last resort,  the 
FSCS  wont  pay out on claims  where  it is aware  that another  firm was involved  in the 
transaction,  and it considers  that firm might  also be responsible  for a consumers  losses.  
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm C is now in liquidation. My starting point  as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr H suffered in 
transferring to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
Portafina couldve prevented the transfer  and the investments. Instead it facilitated  them,  
having given unsuitable advice to Mr H that he should transfer.  Mr H hasnt complained  
about Firm C and in light of its liquidation,  there  would be little point in him doing so.  He  has 
complained about Portafina and because of what I have said,  it is, in my view, fair and 
reasonable that Portafina should account  to him for the full extent of his losses.  
So, for the reasons  given,  Im satisfied  that Portafina  is responsible  for Mr Hs losses.  
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H in the position, or as 
close as can reasonably be achieved, he should  be in, but for the unsuitable advice. Here, 
had he been suitably advised, I dont  think he would have  transferred his three pensions and 
gone on to invest  as he did. His pensions wouldve remained  where  they were. I am satisfied  
Mr H wouldve retained his policy with a Guaranteed Annuity Rate  (GAR) attached to it up to 
his intended retirement  age because  of the benefits  built into this plan. The GAR  appears to 
provide Mr H with a guaranteed minimum pension  fund value as well as a guaranteed  
annuity rate. I would expect the current transfer  value of Mr H policy with the GAR to reflect  
the guarantees he has lost.
For simplicity Ive split the redress methodology into three main parts  one covering the 
GAR policy, the second covering the PPP and the third covering the OPS. The nature of the 
loss calculation Im proposing essentially  involves  comparing what  Mr H wouldve had if 
suitable advice  had been given with what he actually has in his SIPP.  
What should Portafina  do?
The GAR policy
1.Ask the original provider to calculate  the notional value of Mr H policy on the date of 
the calculation,  as if the policy  had never  been  switched.
2.Obtain details of the GAR applying at Mr H exact age at the date of the calculation.
3.Look up annuity  rates on the date of the calculation to determine  a rate payable  on 
Ref: DRN717315718the open market for the same format and age.
4.Assuming (2) is greater than (3), increase  the value in (1) by the ratio of 75% x ((2) 
divided by (3)). Otherwise leave the value in (1) unchanged.
5.Obtain the SIPPs  actual value at the date of the calculation 
6.The loss to Mr H pension fund at the date of the calculation is calculated as the 
result of (4)  (5). If the answer  is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The PPP 
Any loss Mr H has suffered should  be determined by obtaining  the notional  value of the 
pension from the original provider at the time of calculation on the basis that it had been  in 
the same  fund and subtracting  the current actual value of the SIPP Mr H switched  to from 
this notional value.  If the answer is negative, theres  a gain and no redress  is payable.
The OPS
Portafina should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators  pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance  17/9: 
Guidance for firms  on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends  to update the inflation assumptions used in this 
guidance. This could  materially  affect the amount of compensation due. Portafina must  
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance  of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Portafina must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mr H. Portafina need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments 
currently planned by the FCA. Portafina  does not subsequently  need  to recalculate following 
any further amendments  the regulator  might later make
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr H in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr H SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If any of the above  individual  calculations  show any gains,  these can be offset  against  the 
overall losses.
Trouble and upset
Ref: DRN717315719Portafina should pay Mr H £300 for trouble and upset caused as a result of disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Actual values
I think the amount  used  for the actual value of the SIPP for comparison under each 
calculation set out above should be proportionate  to the share of the original value of the 
SIPP that each  of Mr H policies respectively represented. 
Notional values
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the SIPP  should  be deducted from the 
notional values calculations at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point  on. A proportion of each payment should be deducted  from 
each of the notional values (for the PPP, the GAR policy and the OPS) in line with how much 
each plan represented in the overall  value of the SIPP when they were transferred.  
To keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if Portafina totals  all those payments and deducts  
that figure at the end from the total losses instead  of deducting periodically. 
Treatment of the illiquid assets held within the SIPP
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he would have been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily 
sold on the open market),  as its value cant be determined. That appears  to be the case 
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should  include anything Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr H to provide  an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mr H to provide an undertaking,  
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
Future SIPP fees 
If Portafina had given suitable  advice  Mr H wouldnt have the SIPP. The SIPP  only exists 
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr H wish to move 
his investment portfolio)  and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments  need to be 
removed from the SIPP.  Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina  taking 
over the investments, or this is something that Mr H can discuss  with his SIPP provider  
directly. But I dont  know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr H an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
Ref: DRN717315720the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for the parties  to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
How should compensation be paid to Mr H?
I understand that as Mr H is in severe financial difficulty, hed prefer any compensation due 
to be paid to him directly.  I see no issue with this, so any losses arising from the calculations 
set out above  should  be paid to Mr H as a lump  sum after making a notional reduction  to 
allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
As Mr H would have taken tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 75% would 
have been taxed according  to their likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional  reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portafina LLP should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Portafina LLP should provide details  of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7173157