K820x#14complaint
The Estate of Mrs T complains that Lloyds  Bank  PLC mishandled  her accounts and provided 
poor service to her representative, Miss T.
background
The late Mrs T is represented  in this complaint by her daughter  Miss T.
Following Mrs Ts death, Miss T contacted  Lloyds  bank  and asked it not to close her 
mothers two accounts until such time as Miss T had moved the associated direct debits 
elsewhere. Lloyds  agreed  to this.
Miss T had also engaged  a solicitor to assist  her in dealing with matters following  her 
mothers death. And on receipt  of a letter from the solicitor asking the bank to freeze Mrs Ts 
accounts, Lloyds  instead closed them and sent the balance  to the solicitor.
Miss T complained to Lloyds about the actions it had taken.
She also complained  about the poor service it had provided her in paying funeral expenses 
from the wrong account, giving her incorrect information during her many phone  calls, and in 
deploying staff in branches whose customer service skills  had been  below her expectations.
Lloyds apologised  to Miss T for its poor customer service  and paid her £150. But with 
respect to the account closures, it said it had received instructions to this effect from Miss Ts 
solicitor.
Miss T was unhappy with the banks response and she complained to us. She said that 
Lloyds actions and mistakes had added to her stress at a time when she was already very 
distressed. In particular  the fact that it had prematurely closed Mrs Ts accounts,  when it had 
told her it would not, meant that she was forced to deal with the transfer of the direct debits 
very quickly during  what was already  a very difficult time for her. She considered £150 
compensation to be insufficient given what had happened.
In summary,  our adjudicator concluded  that Lloyds had made  an error in closing  Mrs Ts 
accounts when  Miss Ts solicitor had said they should only be frozen.  But as the closure 
hadnt had an impact on the estate, our adjudicator said that compensation wouldnt be 
appropriate.
With respect to all other complaints raised  by Miss T, our adjudicator commented that we 
could only consider how these had affected the banks customer  (here, the estate of Mrs T) 
and not any impact on Miss T herself.  And as the estate didnt appear to have been  
adversely affected  by what had happened, our adjudicator didnt  believe  she could ask 
Lloyds to do anything  more.
Miss T didnt agree with this view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  In doing so, and 
in summary, she reiterated  her previously stated concerns  about  what had happened and 
said she hadnt received an apology about  the account closure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN74981672I am in no doubt that Lloyds was wrong to close Mrs Ts accounts,  and it shouldnt  have 
done so at the time it did. Miss T had asked the bank to keep the accounts  open, and it said 
it would. But it subsequently  received a letter from Miss Ts solicitor  stating  that the accounts 
should be frozen, and this is the action I would  reasonably have expected  Lloyds to have 
taken. I know Miss T believes that Lloyds  should first have contacted  her having received 
this apparently contradictory instruction  from her solicitor. But Im afraid I dont agree with 
her. 
Where an executor appoints a solicitor to act on her behalf I would expect businesses to act 
on instructions from that solicitor. It seems to me that part of the difficulty  here has been that 
Miss T and her solicitor  havent agreed  on what should happen to Mrs Ts accounts and 
when. But Lloyds couldnt reasonably have known that this was an issue. And so when  
Lloyds received the letter from Miss Ts solicitor  to freeze the accounts it believed,  as it was 
entitled to do, that this had been  sent with Miss Ts approval and superseded her previous 
request to keep the accounts  open.  And if Lloyds  had acted on this  by freezing the 
accounts - I couldnt reasonably have criticised  it for doing so.
However it didnt, but decided  instead to close them. It shouldnt  have done. And in 
subsequent correspondence with Miss T it said her solicitor had stated  the accounts should  
be closed, which wasnt true. Lloyds doesnt appear  to have apologised to Miss T (as 
representative of the estate)  either  for its closure error or for providing an incorrect 
explanation of the circumstances leading to it. I shall recommend  it does  so.
In assessing what, if any, compensation should  be awarded I must consider the impact of 
what has happened on the banks customer  in this case the estate of Mrs T. And although  
I recognise that closing  the accounts before Miss T ideally would have liked had an impact 
on her, it doesnt appear to have done so on the estate.  But as Miss T isnt a Lloyds 
customer Im afraid I cannot  award her any compensation. 
And Im afraid that the fact that Miss T isnt a Lloyds customer  prevents me from awarding 
her compensation for the banks other  acknowledged errors and service  shortcomings. In the 
matter of paying funeral expenses from the wrong account, this doesnt seem to have had 
any adverse consequences for Mrs Ts estate. And all other issues  raised by Miss T concern 
the impact they had on her personally rather than on her mothers  estate.  However, in saying 
that I cannot award Miss T compensation I note that Lloyds has nevertheless paid her £150. 
And so whilst I have considerable sympathy with Miss T about the impact on her of Lloyds 
actions at a time when  she was clearly distressed and under pressure, Im afraid  that my 
consideration of her complaint is limited  to those aspects relating to the administration of Mrs 
Ts accounts. Lloyds has admitted it made a mistake in closing them, but this had no 
adverse impact on the estate. However I consider  that Lloyds should apologise to Miss T for 
this error, and subsequent incorrect explanation  of it, in her capacity as representative  of 
Mrs Ts estate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, and require Lloyds Bank PLC to apologise to Miss T, as the 
representative of Mrs Ts estate, for its error  in closing Mrs Ts accounts and in subsequently 
providing an incorrect explanation of why it did so. 
Ref: DRN74981673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7498167