K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the amount of compensation National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) 
has offered to settle his complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy associated with the overdraft on his bank  account.
background
In June 1998 Mr B took out a PPI policy that was associated  with the overdraft on his current  
account. The policy was paid for by a monthly premium,  initially  of £1.50  and later rising to 
£1.52. The cost of the policy premium  became part of the overdraft when the account  was 
overdrawn and so interest was caused  by the premium at the overdraft rate. 
Mr B complained the PPI was mis-sold. NatWest indicated to Mr B that two policies had 
been set up at different times  on the current account. One had started in June 1998  and ran 
until February 2008. The second  was shown as starting on 20 December 2001 and ending 
on 21 December 2001, so running for only one day. NatWest said the second policy was set 
up due to an admin error and no premiums were ever charged.  It agreed the first policy,  
taken out in 1998, had been mis-sold and offered compensation to settle the complaint. 
NatWest has offered total compensation  of £2,453.47 after tax. This was made  up of the 
total premiums paid, the interest caused  by the PPI premiums and some  compensatory 
interest. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with the amount  of compensation and brought his complaint to this 
service. Our adjudicator looked  at the calculations done by NatWest and said the offer was 
fair. Mr B still wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the records relating to the second policy set up in 2001. I can see this 
is shown as starting on one day and ending  the next and it seems this was most likely done 
due to an administrative error. I can see nothing to show  that any premium was ever 
charged for this policy so I do not think any compensation is due for this policy. 
NatWest has agreed to uphold Mr Bs complaint  that the PPI policy  set up in 1998  was mis-
sold. In this decision Im not considering how the PPI came to be sold to Mr B. Im only 
looking at whether the compensation NatWest has offered to settle the complaint is fair. 
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold we expect the business to pay back to the consumer 
all the costs paid for the PPI plus some compensatory interest  for being out of pocket. Ive 
looked at the records  provided and the calculations NatWest  has undertaken and I think they 
have worked out fair compensation. I shall explain why.
The premium Mr B paid for the PPI was charged  monthly. At first this was £1.50 and after a 
few months it went up to £1.52  each month.  The PPI ran on the account from June 1998 to 
February 2008 and a total of £176.06 was charged  in premiums.
Ref: DRN75318642As the premiums were each taken directly  from Mr Bs current account, when the account 
was overdrawn interest was charged  and so some interest was charged  on the premiums 
when they were part of the overdraft. NatWest has worked out a total of £1,836.03 in interest  
was cause by the PPI. So Mr B paid £2,012.09 for the PPI costs.
Mr B is also entitled to 8% simple  interest  on the cost of the PPI for any time he was out of 
pocket. However he is only out of pocket for the PPI cost when he has cleared his overdraft  
and the account is in credit. When he is not in credit, overdraft interest is being charged  on 
the premiums and this is taken into account in the PPI costs  calculation. Mr B will not get 
both compensatory  interest and overdraft interest  rate as he is either out of pocket, so gets 
compensatory interest,  or he owes the PPI cost to the bank when it is in the overdraft, so he 
gets overdraft interest back. 
Ive looked at the calculations and records of the current account and can see that 
sometimes Mr B was in credit on his account  but he also had long periods when he was in 
his overdraft. Looking  at the calculations  carried out by NatWest I think they reflect this and 
the amounts of overdraft interest and compensatory interest are fair.
So Mr B is getting back  the total premiums charged of £176.06  plus overdraft interest  
caused of £1,836.03. And for any periods Mr B was out of pocket  for the cost of the PPI he is 
receiving compensatory  interest which comes to £551.72 before tax. Her Majestys Revenue 
and Customs require  tax to be deducted from compensatory interest  at basic rate and Mr B 
can request a tax certificate for the tax deducted from NatWest if he needs one. 
I think the total compensation offer NatWest made at the date of calculation, which was 
£2,453.47 after tax, is fair. If the compensation has not yet been paid NatWest would need to 
update the compensatory  interest calculation to the date of final payment.
I would also confirm that I have seen nothing  to show any charge was ever made for the 
second policy, set up in 2001,  so no compensation is due to be paid in respect of this policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above I think the compensation calculated  by National 
Westminster Bank Plc for the mis-sold  PPI policy associated  with Mr Bs bank account 
overdraft is fair. If not yet paid the 8% simple interest will need to be updated to the date of 
final payment to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7531864