K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc blocked access  to their joint account  
whilst they were abroad. 
Background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 November 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to provide  any additional comments  or 
information they wanted me to consider before making my final decision. Mr and Mrs K have  
got in touch to confirm  they accept the settlement proposed in the provisional decision. 
Barclays has also confirmed it accepts the provisional decision.  Neither  party has provided  
any new information. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted the provisional  decision and I havent been  sent any new 
information to consider  I see no reason  to change the conclusions  I reached. I intend to 
proceed in line with my provisional decision and uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs K £400. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN70547472Copy Provisional  decision  dated 5 November 2019
Complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked access to their joint account  whilst they 
were abroad. 
Background
Mr and Mrs K were abroad in July 2018 when  they phoned Barclays. Mr Ks voice  was picked up by 
Barclays voice recognition system and matched to a known fraudster. Barclays went on to suspend 
access to Mr and Mrs Ks joint account as well as Mr Ks sole account. 
Both Mr and Mrs K spoke with Barclays and asked it to remove the account block  so they could  
access funds whilst  they were  abroad. Mrs K had been  receiving  treatment for some very serious 
health problems and shes explained that the holiday  was taken to rest and relax. But because  of 
Barclays actions Mr and Mrs K say their holiday  was ruined.  
On their return Mr and Mrs K complained.  Barclays dealt  with Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about  their 
joint account  and Mr Ks sole account as one case and offered £500.  They  referred their complaint  to 
our service and it was passed to an investigator who asked Barclays to increase the total award to 
£800. Barclays accepted but Mr and Mrs K didnt. 
However, when the case was reviewed  again it became clear that wed dealt with 
Mr and Mrs Ks joint account  complaint  at the same  time as their complaints about sole accounts. As 
a service we cant investigate  complaints about  joint and sole accounts under one case  so we 
arranged to split the complaint. 
The investigator relooked  at his view of this complaint and divided the £800 Barclays agreed to pay 
between Mr Ks sole account and Mr and Mrs Ks joint account complaint  he thought  £400 was a fair 
level of compensation  for this complaint. As Mr and Mrs K remain unhappy  at what happened their 
complaint has been passed  to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Id like to thank all parties involved, especially Mr and Mrs K, for their patience. I understand this issue 
has been ongoing for several months and that our service didnt initially pick up that the complaint 
spanned three separate accounts. 
As a result, we had to split the complaint after it was initially looked at by an investigator and the 
compensation levels have been changed accordingly. Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional 
decision as I think its important all parties have  a final opportunity to submit any additional comments 
or information for consideration before I make my final decision. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K have given us a lot of information  surrounding the background  for their holiday and why 
it was so important that they had a chance to rest and relax.  I can see that having their joint account 
blocked whilst away was particularly  upsetting and frustrating. Ive taken  the impact of the account 
block on Mrs K in particular into account when  considering whether the current  offer is fair. 
Whilst I understand why the account block was particularly frustrating in this case, I have to take into 
account that Barclays  fraud  prevention  systems  matched  Mr Ks voice to a known fraudster  and it 
took the step of blocking  their account in order to protect it. I appreciate Mr K was subsequently able 
to remove the block after he visited a branch  in the UK but that doesnt mean Barclays acted  unfairly 
or made  a mistake by taking action to secure the account. 
Ref: DRN70547473Barclays terms and conditions say it can suspend or stop access to an account  if it suspects fraud.  
The terms  also say it can suspend account access to protect  it. I understand there was no fraud in 
this case  and Mr K was calling about  his own account. But because  Barclays voice recognition picked 
up Mr Ks voice the business  had to ensure the account was safe. Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs 
K but Im satisfied Barclays was acting reasonably when  it blocked the account as there was a 
genuine concern of fraud. And, as Ive said above, thats a step that Barclays is allowed to take under 
the account terms. 
Ive listened to all the available calls and I can hear how upset and frustrated both 
Mr and Mrs K were. Ive thought very carefully about  the fairest way to resolve their complaint and the 
level of compensation  currently  agreed. 
Barclays has agreed to pay £400 in respect of Mr and Mrs Ks joint account  complaint.  I can see that 
the impact of the account block was increased because they were abroad and
Mrs K was going through some serious health problems at the time.  But I think the £400 Barclays has 
agreed to pay fairly  reflects  what Mr and Mrs K have told us about  the impact of the issue on them.  As 
Barclays has already agreed to pay a fair level of compensation,  Im not telling  it to increase the 
award. 
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs K £400. 
Mr and Mrs K and Barclays Bank UK PLC have until 5 December 2019 to send me any additional 
comments or information theyd like me to take into account before I make my final decision.  
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7054747