K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Provident provided to Mr H between 
13 January 2018  and 12 May 2018.  Mr Hs borrowing  history  with Provident is as follows:
No. Loan amount (£)  Loan start date  Terms  (months)   Actual closed date   
1 150 13 January 2018 6 16 January 2018
2 850 17 February 2018 12 19 February 2018
3 900 22 February 2018 12 26 February 2018
4 300 03 March 2018 4 07 March 2018
5 550 08 March 2018 12 23 March 2018
6 250 04 May  2018 3 07 May  2018
7 500 12 May  2018 12 17 May  2018
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Hs complaint be upheld  in part, saying the loans from 
loan 6 onwards  shouldnt  have been given. Provident disagreed and the complaint was 
passed to me. When I looked at the case,  I reached  a different view to that of the 
adjudicator. So I sent out a provisional decision  and asked for comments and any further 
evidence. In my provisional decision I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending  including all of the relevant rules,  
guidance and good industry  practice   on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  
sure Mr H could  repay the loans  in a sustainable  manner.  These  checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN70059872the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period 
of time during  which a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk 
that repeated  refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become,  or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive thought about these  points, and I dont think I currently have evidence that 
Provident did lend to Mr H irresponsibly. 
Ive looked at the income and expenditure Mr H declared to Provident. From this it 
seems he could, at least on paper, afford  to pay back the intended instalments of 
each loan, with a reasonable margin of error. And in fact he did pay them  all back  
very quickly. The loans  Mr H took were instalment loans, intended to be paid back 
over a number of months, ranging from three months for one loan to 12 months for 
three of the loans.  But Mr H repaid all but one of the loans in between two and five 
days; and loan 5 was repaid in 15 days. 
So, for those loans, I dont  think there was a reason Provident should have thought  it 
shouldnt lend to Mr H, or that it should  look more carefully into his financial 
circumstances first. 
Mr H did take a large number of loans, however. So Ive thought about whether that 
should have led Provident to be more  cautious,  and find out more about his 
circumstances at some point. 
The adjudicator said that, by loan 6, Mr Hs pattern of borrowing meant there were 
signs he had become reliant  on short  term loans.  But my current  view of this is 
different. The first five loans were taken over a short period  just under three 
months. And all were paid off within a few days, apart from loan 5 which was repaid 
in only 15 days.  There was then a gap of two months before loan 6, and this was for 
half the amount  taken  at loan 5. 
So, given the rapid way in which most  of the loans were taken, and the gap of two 
months after an initial borrowing period of three months, I dont think there  was a 
concerning pattern of lending. It may be that Provident should have done  more 
investigation for those  loans  that had longer terms. But, in the actual overall 
circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  I can reasonably criticise Provident for not 
looking into Mr Hs full financial circumstances in more detail before giving loan 6. 
Loan 7 was taken only three days after loan 6 however; and it was for twice as much 
as loan 6. I think  at this stage Provident should  have  been enquiring more about  
Mr Hs financial  situation and reviewing  it. However,  I dont have any evidence to 
show that, even  if Provident  had done  this, it would have shown that Provident  
shouldnt have offered more  lending. I only have Providents summary of its credit  
checks, but these  show  nothing  concerning. And I dont have information  from Mr H 
to show that this borrowing would have been unsustainable. 
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence in response to this. 
Ref: DRN70059873my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7005987