K822xComplaint
This complaint is about Mr Ps mortgage,  currently held with Landmark  Mortgages Limited. 
The complaint is multi-faceted and covers  events, actions and issues  going  back many 
years, to the period when  the lender was known  as NRAM Limited, and before that Northern 
Rock. At its core, its about  how Landmark has treated Mr P during an extended period of 
arrears and financial hardship.
Background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own words and rounding some of the figures  involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
By way of a jurisdiction  decision in February  2020,  I set out a list of the issues   suitably 
summarised  we were  being asked to look into. I then explained which of those issues wed 
be considering  (including time periods) and which we would not. 
I reproduce the list of what wed be considering (including time periods) below.
a)Landmark failed  to reply to letters  Mr P sent in between April and September  2018; 
b)Landmark sent a field agent to visit on 7 September 2018 without first making an 
appointment.
c)Landmark wrote on 24 November 2018 talking  of possible legal action against Mr P;
d)the adequacy of the final responses  dated  31 October 2018 and 18 January  2019;
e)Landmark had refused  to speak to Mr Ps solicitor;
f)Landmark had refused  to send a field agent  out to explain all the issues  to Mr P, in 
respect of events since 27 June 2017;
g)Landmark provided misleading information (about account numbers, arrears  amounts 
and the business name) in respect  of events  since 27 June 2017;
h)Landmark breached data protection  rules; 
i)Landmark should pay Mr P redress for costs hed incurred due to regulatory failings in 
respect of events since 7 November  2016;
j)Mr P is unhappy with the content of a letter Landmark  sent him in April 2019, which he 
inferred as requiring  him to phone the business;
k)Landmark keeps  threatening legal action when his problems arent caused by financial 
difficulties but by its mistakes; 
m)Landmark has sold his personal data to claims management companies that have 
written offering to make PPI claims on his behalf;  and
n)different departments are acting in contradictory  and misleading  ways.
Ref: DRN74285962Our investigator looked into the complaint and set out his findings  in July 2020.  He 
restructured the above list into upper-case headings, grouping  linked points where 
appropriate. I summarise the investigators below, under the upper-case heading and then 
grouped under the original lower-case  bullets.
Heading A
(d) Overall,  the investigator  considered that other than a minor clerical error that had no 
material effect, the final responses  dealt adequately with the issues  Mr P had raised. 
Heading B
(b) Landmark should have pre-warned  Mr P about an intended home visit after hed 
asked to have  a witness present with him. He recommended Landmark pay Mr P 
£150 compensation for this omission.
(f) More generally,  field agent  visits are arranged at the lenders behest, not the 
borrowers. The purpose of such visits is for the lender  to gather relevant information.
Heading C
(g) Landmark hadnt done anything  wrong in its use of reference numbers and business 
names since 27 June  2017. It made a mistake  in July 2018 over the amount of 
arrears, but corrected it promptly, so there was no detriment  to Mr P.
Heading D
(i) The costs Mr P had incurred were the fees and charges Landmark  had applied  to his 
mortgage account since 7 November 2016.  The investigator considered that rather  
being down to regulatory failings,  the fees were permitted  under Landmarks  tariff of 
charges, and had been applied fairly, given the conduct  of the account.
Heading E
(j) The investigator thought a standard  template  letter sent in April 2019 gave the 
impression Mr P needed to phone Landmark, contrary to his wishes  not to deal by 
phone. He recommended Landmark pay Mr P £25 compensation for this.
Heading F
(k) As a starting point,  Mr P is in arrears  and so Landmark has the right, subject to its 
obligation to act fairly  in its dealings with him, to take action (including litigation if 
need be) to recover the debt.
(c) However, a specific letter referencing possible  legal action  in November 2018 had 
been inappropriate. Landmark  had offered Mr P £50 compensation for this; the 
investigator thought £100 more appropriate  for the stress it caused.
Heading G
(m) If Mr P thought Landmark  was selling personal data generally, that would be a matter 
for the Information Commissioners Office.
(h) There was no evidence to suggest  Landmark  had supplied Mr Ps personal data to 
the third parties which  had contacted  him.
Ref: DRN74285963Heading H
(n) Landmark had made some  mistakes but overall the various  departments involved in 
handling Mr Ps account hadnt contradicted themselves or misled Mr P.
Heading I
(e) Landmark had declined to engage  with Mr Ps solicitor until it had received his signed 
authority to do so, which was reasonable.
In conclusion, the investigator  recommended  Landmark pay Mr P £275 compensation.
Landmark accepted the investigators recommendations and agreed to the proposed 
settlement. Mr Ps son replied  in August 2020 to say his father had received the view but 
was in isolation due to poor health, and unable at that stage to reply. He also asked us to set 
up a new complaint into actions Landmark had taken since  May 2020. We explained that 
Landmark would need to look into the new issues first before we could do so, and asked  if 
Mr P needed  more time to response  on the current complaint. 
We eventually heard in writing from Mr P in October 2020. In his letter, Mr P enclosed  a 
completed complaint  form for his new complaint along with some supporting 
correspondence. But on the current complaint, he repeated his position that he hadnt 
opened the investigators letter and wouldnt do so until Landmark arranged a field agents 
visit. 
The investigator gave  Mr P one more  opportunity  to comment on his assessment of the 
current complaint; weve  heard from Mr Ps son in response,  with comments  about the new 
complaint rather than the current  one. He said that due to the pandemic and Mr Ps situation, 
no timescale should be imposed om him for replying to the investigators assessment.
My findings
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion,  and when we should 
proceed to determine  a complaint. 
This decision deals  solely with the complaint Mr P brought to us in February 2019, within the 
parameters I set out in my jurisdiction  decision  of February 2020.  It doesnt deal with 
anything that Mr P is raising  in his new complaint. 
Mr P has had ample opportunity to read and respond to the investigators view since  we sent 
it to him. I understand he is in poor health,  but he has the support and assistance of his son. 
Insofar as Mr P hasnt  replied substantively to the investigators view,  its because hes 
elected not to rather  than that he was unable to.
Ref: DRN74285964Mr P has chosen not to open the investigators letter and deal with the contents  unless and 
until Landmark arranges a field agent to visit him. Thats  entirely up to him, but its not a 
reason for me to delay  my determination  of the complaint.  I have to give equal  consideration 
to both parties, and leaving this matter unresolved indefinitely  is neither fair nor reasonable. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for much  the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr P finds the attention  from Landmark  about his mortgage unwelcome  and 
stressful to deal with. But the greater majority of the issues hes raised  and highlighted as 
regulatory failings  actually arise either from Landmark seeking  to comply with its regulatory 
obligations when  dealing  with a borrower  who is in arrears or from his generally  unhappiness 
with the administrative  framework through which Landmark does that.
The extra work a lender  is required to do in this regard comes  at a cost,  and the regulations 
(and the underlying contract) allow a lender  to apply fees against the account of the 
borrower in arrears to help offset  that cost. The fees Landmark has applied to Mr Ps 
account since 7 November 2016  are consistent with what its tariff allows, and in my view, 
have been applied fairly.
The choice of references and/or signatories  Landmark uses  in its correspondence arent a 
matter for me; my concern is with the substantive  content of the correspondence.  For the 
most part, I agree with the investigator that Landmark has, generally speaking,  acted  fairly  
and reasonably. Thats not to say it got everything  right; there have been mistake and errors 
of judgement along the way, and these have been  identified and summarised  above.  
But everything has a context. Engaging with borrowers who are in arrears and/or financial 
hardship is an organic  process thats  permitted  under the mortgage contract and the 
regulatory framework. Its not an exact  science and its inevitable  in any human endeavour 
that mistakes will happen  from time to time.  Where  that happens, its right that the business 
should recognise its shortcomings and provide  redress where necessary. 
But not every mistake is a regulatory  failing and not every mistake  causes substantive  
detriment to the customer or invalidates the lenders  broader actions to deal with the 
outstanding arrears. Looking at everything  that has happened (within the parameters 
permitted by my jurisdiction decision) I share the investigators view that for the most part, 
Landmark has not treated Mr P unfairly or breached its regulatory duty. I also agree with his 
identification of the individual mistakes  on Landmarks part, and the redress  he has 
recommended to settle the complaint fairly.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part only; in full and final settlement, I direct  Landmark Mortgages 
Limited to pay Mr P £275. I make no other order, award or direction. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 December  2020.
Ref: DRN74285965Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7428596