K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about an instalment  loan he took out with Madison CF UK Limited 
(trading as 118 118 Money) in 2015. Amongst  other things, hes said that 118 118 Money 
lent to him irresponsibly.  
background
Mr S initially  complained about having  been provided with three instalment loans by            
118 118 Money. The first loan was provided  in December  2015. It was for £2000  and due to 
repaid in 24 instalments. This loan was settled when Mr S applied  for further  borrowing in 
December 2016.  The December 2016 loan was for £2729.70  (which  included an amount of 
£1329.70 to clear  the outstanding balance on the December 2015  loan  so Mr S received 
£1400.00) and this loan was also due to be repaid over 24 months.  
Mr S final loan was taken in September 2017.  This loan was for was for £4632.17 (which 
included an amount of £2232.17 to clear  the outstanding balance  on the second loan  so 
this time Mr S received £2400.00) and this loan was also due to be repaid over 24 months. 
When it initially investigated Mr S complaint, 118 118 Money accepted that it shouldnt have 
provided the Mr S second and third loans.  It refunded the interest Mr S paid and then 
reduced the balance on the September 2017  loan to reflect  the fact that Mr S borrowed extra  
in order to repay his second loan. Mr S was dissatisfied at 118 118 Moneys response as he 
thought that it was unfair for it to have provided his first loan  in December 2015 - too.   
One of our investigators  looked at what 118 118 Money and Mr S said. She thought that     
118 118 Money unfairly provided the December 2015 loan to Mr S. So our investigator 
thought that Mr S complaint should  be upheld. As 118 118 Money disagreed with our 
investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
As 118 118 Money has already agreed  that it shouldnt  have provided the second  and third 
loans to Mr S (in December 2016  and September 2017), this decision isnt looking at 
whether it acted unfairly at this time. All Im looking at is whether 118 118 Money acted  fairly  
and reasonably in providing the December 2015 loan to Mr S and what effect this has on 
what it has already agreed  to do to put things  right for Mr S.
the regulatory framework
118 118 Money was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
when it lent to Mr S. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms  are required to 
follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
Ref: DRN79853292PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like 118 118 Money.  
CONC also replaced the requirements  set out in Section 55B CONC 5 sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after 
a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is 
evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back  to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
Ref: DRN79853293CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Ref: DRN79853294my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did 118 118 Money complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been  able to do so?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that 118 118 Money  didnt act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr S 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did 118 118 Money  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations in place  at the time 118 118 Money  lent to Mr S required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr S could afford to repay his 
loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The affordability checks had to be borrower-focused   so 118 118 Money had to think 
about whether  Mr S would  be able to repay the loan sustainably.  In practice this meant that 
118 118 Money had to ensure that making  the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other  words, it wasnt enough  for 118 118 
Money to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money  back, it had to consider the 
impact of loan repayments on Mr S.
Any checks  also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check  will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different loan 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN79853295the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were 118 118 Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
118 118 Money says it carried  out a number of credit and affordability checks  before it 
decided to lend to Mr S. It says that it carried out a credit check and its decision to lend was 
based on this, the income and expenditure information provided by Mr S. As far as 118 118 
Money is concerned  the loan was affordable based on everything it had. Ive carefully 
thought about what 118 118 Money has said. 
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.  
Mr S loan required him to make  payments for around two years. And the APR was 99.9%. 
So I think its fair to say that 118 118 Money was providing Mr S with expensive credit  for an 
extended period  and it ought to have realised that there was a greater risk of this loan 
impacting Mr S finances. Taking all of this into account,  I think that 118 118 Money needed 
to get a thorough understanding of Mr S financial  position. So as well as asking Mr S about 
the details of his income and expenditure, I think that 118 118 Money needed  to take steps  
to verify what it was being told by Mr S. It could  have done this by asking for information 
such as bank statements, copies of bills, or even proof of Mr S income. 
118 118 Money has said that it was entitled to rely on what  Mr S declared and he was told 
about the importance of providing accurate information during the welcome call it had with 
him just before  he was provided with loan one. This may be the case.  But, in any event, 
CONC 5.3.1G(4)(b) says that where  it takes  income or expenditure into account, it is not 
generally sufficient  for a firm to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. So the regulators guidance indicates that when firms  are relying  on income and 
expenditure information, they have to take steps  to verify what the borrower is declaring. 
118 118 Money might have carried out credit searches.  But I cant  see that it properly 
scrutinised what the credit  search  showed.  For example, I can see that the search showed 
five short-term loans  that werent declared  in Mr S expenditure. So 118 118 Money  had 
clear reasons to suspect  that the information  provided was inaccurate.  And it ought fairly  and 
Ref: DRN79853296reasonably to have  taken  further steps to verify  what was being said. By failing to do so, 118 
118 Money ran the risk of increasing Mr S debt unsustainably. 
As theres  no evidence  that 118 118 Money did properly scrutinise the information on the 
credit checks, or that it asked Mr S to provide documentary  evidence to support the income 
and expenditure  declarations made, I dont think it completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before providing Mr S with his first loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to 118 118 Money  that Mr S 
would have been unable to sustainably repay  the loan?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have shown  118 118 Money  that it was unfair  to offer this loan to Mr S. 
Mr S has provided us with evidence  of his financial circumstances  at the time he applied  for 
the loan. Of course,  I accept different checks might show  different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information  Mr S has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown 
up in any checks 118 118 Money mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else 
from 118 118 Money showing what this information  would  have  shown, I think its perfectly 
fair and reasonable to place considerable weight  on it as an indication of what Mr S financial 
circumstances were  likely to have  been at the time.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that 118 118 Money  was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably make his loan repayments  not whether  the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  Of course  the loan 
payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case.
This is because CONC defines sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  the information  Mr S has provided in light of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with shows Mr S was regularly gambling substantially in 
excess of his monthly income.  And this together with the number of outstanding short-term 
loans on Mr S credit file ought fairly  and reasonably to have shown that it was unlikely Mr S 
would be able to repay what he was being lent without him borrowing further  or experiencing 
undue difficulty.  So in these circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have alerted 118 118 Money  to the fact that Mr S would not be able to sustainably 
make the repayments  to this loan.     
Did 118 118 Money  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, other than by providing the 
loan, Ive not seen anything here that leads me to conclude  118 118 Money acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Mr S in some other way.  
Ref: DRN79853297Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
four of this decision, I think that 118 118 Money  unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr S 
with a  loan it ought  to have realised he was unlikely to have been able to sustainably make 
the payments  to. So 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided the December 2015  loan to   
Mr S. 
As Mr S ended up paying interest and charges on a loan he couldnt reasonably have been 
expected to sustainably repay, I think that he lost out because of what  118 118 Money did 
wrong. So 118 118 Money  should put things right.
      
fair compensation  what  118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr S
I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr S complaint for 118 118 
Money to put things  right in the following way:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having  been given all 
three of his loans.  The payments Mr S made  should be deducted from this amount. 
Any payments  made after the total repaid exceeds  the amount  of money Mr S was 
given should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr S;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments  from the date they 
were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr S credit file as a result  of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to take off tax from this interest.  118 118 
Money must  give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr S complaint. Madison CF UK Limited  
(trading as 118 118 Money) should  pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7985329