K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains TM Advances Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
Mr W took out a personal loan with TM Advances for £3,500  over a 24 month  term. The total 
repayable was £7,343.04.  He says TM Advances didnt do enough to check he could  afford 
the monthly repayments of £305.96. Mr W was able to maintain the payments on the loan for 
around ten months. Due to his financial difficulties hes since  entered  into a debt 
management plan.  
TM Advances says it conducted reasonable and proportionate checks  at the time Mr W 
applied for the loan.  It says it asked him for details  of his income and expenditure (it verified 
his income by speaking to his employer)  and completed a credit check. Having done this, 
TM Advances say Mr W had around £1,000 in disposable income  each month (before taking 
out their loan)  so this indicated he could afford the borrowing. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He felt that TM Advances  hadnt 
conducted proportionate checks to ensure Mr W could sustainably afford to repay the loan. 
He said TM Advances credit check showed Mr W had taken out a number of high cost short 
term (payday) loans.  He said this should  have  prompted TM Advances to conduct further 
checks, and had it done so, it would have likely realised Mr W couldnt afford the loan. He 
recommended Mr W only be held liable  for the capital  he borrowed and any overpayments 
hes paid are refunded.  
TM Advances agreed that it wouldnt have lent to Mr W if it had seen his bank statements 
(due to the amount of gambling and payday  lending). But it didnt think there was any reason 
for it to have found  out about  these issues. This is because  it thought  its affordability checks 
were reasonable and proportionate. In summary, it said this was because:
Mr W didnt  have any active payday  lending  on his credit file at the time of 
application. And there was no adverse credit at all. 
Hed cleared all his existing payday  loans  without any significant increase in his 
overall debt elsewhere. In the previous three months this had only increased by 
around £1,200  which  suggested a low risk of vulnerability and financial hardship. 
Its checks showed Mr W had almost  £1,000  in disposable income which  was high in 
proportion to his credit commitments. 
It offered  to write off the remaining  balance as a measure of forbearance now that it was 
aware of Mr Ws financial  difficulty. On this basis it felt that it didnt need  to refund the 
interest which Mr W had paid.
Mr W didnt agree to this offer, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive taken into account  
amongst other things   the rules  for responsible lending for consumer credit  firms  which are 
set out in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Ref: DRN73100712Before granting the loan TM Advances was required to carry out a reasonable assessment 
of Mr Ws ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. It had to gather enough  information  to 
be able to reasonably conclude the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause undue difficulty  
for Mr W. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability check. The thoroughness  of the 
check TM Advances carries out should  be proportionate to the situation. In deciding  what 
would be proportionate TM Advances needed  to take into consideration:
Mr Ws circumstances, including his lending history;
The amount  of credit and the total repayable;
The term of the loan and the size of the repayments; and
Any other relevant  factors. 
The total repayable on this loan was quite significant particularly when considering the 
overall term of the loan.  Mr W was expected to pay back nearly £7,500 in just two years.  The 
monthly repayments were  almost  at the same level to what Mr W had declared he paid in 
rent. So this loan was going to be a significant  commitment for Mr W. For that reason I think  
TM Advances ought to have carried out a more thorough assessment of affordability than 
what it might  have  done for a much smaller loan. 
TM Advances has relied heavily on Mr Ws credit record (which it says held no adverse data) 
and the amount of disposable income  he had at the point of application (it says this was 
nearly £1,000  per month). It says this indicated the loan wasnt going to cause undue  
difficulty and Mr W could afford to repay  it sustainably. I have significant concerns about the 
weight TM Advances placed on this information  and Ill explain why.
Although the credit  check might have showed  Mr W didnt have any active payday loans, it 
did show hed been relying heavily on high cost (and in particular short  term) credit as 
recently as the same  month this loan was taken out. Mr W had a significant history of taking  
out payday lending stretching back a number of years and TM Advances could see this from 
the check it carried out. As an example  (and using solely  the information TM Advances had) 
Mr W had taken out at least 22 high cost short term loans in the year leading  up to this loan.
TM Advances appears to have assumed (I think erroneously) Mr W had suddenly  stopped  
relying on payday lending only a few weeks before  this loan application. It also assumed that 
any financial  difficulty that he may have been  in had also suddenly  stopped.  Whilst that 
might have been possible, the number of payday loans and the length of time Mr W had 
been relying on them, leads me to think TM Advances should have done more  to find out 
whether this was actually  the case. For this reason I think it ought to have done more to 
ensure the new loan wasnt going to cause undue  difficulty to Mr W and he could sustainably  
afford to repay the borrowing.   
TM Advances also says that Mr Ws other debt had only increased by around £1,200  in the 
three months prior to taking out the loan.  But using a value of increase is largely unhelpful. 
Instead TM Advances  needed to consider what this meant in Mr Ws specific circumstances. 
£1,200 represented almost a 25% increase in his overall debt  that is a significant increase. 
TM Advances was then going to increase this by a further 100% (when taking into account 
the total repayable on this loan). All of this ought to have been taken into consideration 
alongside his recent,  heavy  reliance  on payday  lending. 
This should have  prompted TM Advances to question the £1,000 disposable income.  This is 
because regular and sustained use of payday lending strongly suggested that he was 
unlikely to have  had £1,000 left over to spend each month. 
Ref: DRN73100713TM Advances hadnt verified Mr Ws declared  expenditure in any way (other  than checking 
his credit file) it had relied only on what Mr W told them.  In this case the overall borrowing 
was quite significant, costly and required to be repaid in a relatively  long period of time. So 
I think it would have  been proportionate  to have verified Mr Ws expenditure, particularly in 
light of the other information TM Advances had about his circumstances. 
While its not clear  exactly how TM Advances might  have  verified  Mr Ws expenditure, Ive 
reviewed his bank  statements  from the time to see what  information  TM Advances were 
likely to have seen.  Ive done this because  it is a readily available  source of information  and 
gives a reliable indication  of what his financial situation was like at the time.  
These show he continued to rely on payday lending and further borrowing was therefore  
unsustainable. He was also gambling significant amounts of money  each month (in excess 
of what his regular  income was). In the absence of anything else, I think its fair and 
reasonable to place  considerable weight on these statements as an indication  of Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time. And I therefore think its more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have shown  that Mr W couldnt  sustainably repay the loan. 
TM Advances has accepted it wouldnt  have granted Mr W the loan if it knew his true 
financial circumstances. And as I think it ought to have found this out as part of a 
proportionate check of affordability, it now needs  to put things right. 
Mr W has had the use of the £3,500 he borrowed from TM Advances so it wouldnt be fair to 
say the amount he borrowed  should be written off. But all interest and charges  should be 
removed from the loan. If Mr W has already  paid back more than £3,500 then this should be 
treated as an overpayment.  Any overpayments should be refunded to him. As Mr W will 
have been unfairly  withheld from using that money, TM Advances  should  add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of each  overpayment to the date of settlement. Lastly, as 
I dont think the loan should  have  been  granted I think  its fair any adverse data about it is 
removed from Mr Ws credit file. 
Ref: DRN73100714my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct TM Advances  Limited to:
Remove all interest and charges from the loan so that Mr W only owes TM Advances 
a total of £3,500.
If Mr W has already  paid more than £3,500 to TM Advances then it should refund any 
overpayment to him. It should add 8% simple interest  per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement.  
Remove all adverse entries  for this loan from Mr Ws credit  file. 
If TM Advances thinks it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award  it should  send  
Mr W a tax deduction certificate, so he can reclaim that amount, assuming he is entitled  to. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7310071