K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he experienced issues when switching his business banking  account to 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc (Clydesdale).
background
Mr F opened a new business  banking account with Clydesdale in mid-January 2019 with 
free banking for 25 months. Hed also told Clydesdale  he needed the account  opened  by 
early February. But at the beginning  of February  Mr F received a letter  saying he was being 
charged for the account.
Mr F complained to Clydesdale. He said he hadnt  actually received confirmation  the account  
had been opened until after hed received a letter saying hed been charged. He also said 
hed been given conflicting  information  by several  different departments  about  how to access 
both his account and the internet  banking application. This meant  hed wasted time going  to 
the branch, had to make  lengthy  calls to the business, and been charged  for exceeding his 
mobile data allowance trying to access Clydesdales internet application. He also felt the 
member of staff dealing with his complaint  had been  rude. 
Clydesdale upheld Mr Fs complaint and apologised  for the problems hed suffered. They 
also agreed to pay Mr F £100  compensation for the poor service. But they didnt  agree that 
each point should be treated as a separate complaint as they all related to the account  
opening process. Mr F remained unhappy with the service hed received so Clydesdale 
looked at the complaint again.  They  felt Mr F hadnt  been given  the level of service they 
wouldve expected  so they increased the compensation by a further £75.
Mr F didnt  agree as he didnt think the compensation  offered by Clydesdale was enough.  So 
he asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator thought Clydesdale had done  enough to put things right. He said 
Clydesdale have apologised  and offered a fair amount of compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr F didnt  agree as he thinks he should  get more  compensation, so he asked  for his 
complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator.
Theres no dispute that Clydesdale made an error  in giving Mr F incorrect information about  
the account switching process.  This caused him inconvenience  from visiting the branch 
unnecessarily, having  to make lengthy calls,  and not being able to download the online 
application as he expected. But Clydesdale have  apologised for these errors and for the 
poor customer service Mr F said he experienced from their member  of staff. 
Whilst I recognise the frustration Mr F experienced  from the switching process, Ive seen that 
his account was opened on 31 January 2019. And although the full switch to Clydesdale 
hadnt taken place, Mr F was able to use the account from this date. I think  its also worth 
Ref: DRN74968442noting this was ahead of the early February  deadline  Mr F had given Clydesdale for the 
account to be opened, and nearly  three weeks earlier than the timescale theyd  given Mr F 
initially. And that although Mr F was incorrectly charged for using the account, this was 
refunded shortly afterwards to put Mr F in the position he shouldve  been.
Mr F said hes not happy with the compensation amount as he experienced  numerous  
issues throughout the account switching process. But its not for me to punish or fine the 
bank for making  a mistake,  and taking into account all the circumstances I think  the 
compensation offered by Clydesdale is reasonable. So I wont  be asking them to increase it.
I understand Mr F will be disappointed but it doesnt change my conclusion  that Clydesdale 
have done enough to put things right.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7496844