K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited (Sanlam)  mis-sold him a free 
standing additional  voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. He says he should have been 
advised to explore the in-house  schemes  available which  he says were  more suitable and 
would have made him financially better  off. 
background
Mr G joined  a new employer in March  1990  and became  eligible  to join its final salary 
pension scheme   which he did soon afterwards. In September 1990 he met with a 
representative of Sanlam, and accepted the advice  to increase his retirement provision by 
setting up a FSAVC  plan to sit alongside his occupational scheme  benefits.  He agreed to 
pay £40 per month into the managed  fund.  Mr G left the company in 2009.  
In 2017 Mr G, using  a claims management company  hed contacted, complained  that 
Sanlam had mis-sold him the FSAVC  and that he would have been better off financially   
taking out an in-house AVC or added years.  
Sanlam didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that, whilst it was true that an in-house AVC 
might have been more  cost effective, it considered that given Mr Gs relatively young age 
and his occupation it would have been likely  that hed change employer  it noted he 
subsequently left his employer to become self-employed   so Sanlam said therefore it was 
likely Mr G required a more flexible plan which it thought the FSAVC  provided.  
Mr G wasnt happy with that response  so he brought his complaint  to us where one of our 
adjudicators looked into the matter.  She thought  the complaint should be upheld.  She said 
there wasnt any evidence  that Sanlam had made  Mr G aware of the in-house options 
available to him at the time of the advice. And she thought the regulator at the time would 
have expected an adviser to have pointed  out that AVCs were available,  and explained that 
they were likely to provide  better  value for money.
The adjudicator concluded that if Mr G had been  made aware of the in-house options 
available he would  most likely have chosen  the in-house AVC.  But she didnt think  he would 
have chosen the added  years option because she said this would have appeared  more  
expensive to him and it was likely  the benefits  from an in-house AVC scheme would have 
been higher. She also thought that an added years  facility  would  have required 
contributions to rise in line with salary increases but noted that Mr Gs FSAVC  premium 
remained at the same level throughout the whole term of the plan. 
She said Sanlam should  calculate  redress on a charges only basis.
Mr G accepted the adjudicators assessment but Sanlam didnt for the reasons it had given 
in its final response.  Sanlam asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman so its 
been passed to me for a review. 
my findings
Ref: DRN75123912Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators assessment and for broadly the same reasons.
The regulator at the time stated in its code  of conduct that, when  advising  on FSAVCs 
company representatives  should:
 have  regard  to the consumers financial  position generally and to any rights they may have 
under an occupational pension scheme; and
 give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
So I think its clear what rules  and regulations Sanlam  ought to have considered when it 
advised Mr G in 1990. And I think it should have made Mr G aware of the in-house options 
which were available. I think it should also have made Mr G aware  of where he could source 
the information about the potential benefits  of choosing an in-house option. Having regard 
for the rights Mr G had under an occupational pension scheme would in my view have 
involved a consideration of those  benefits  especially  those relating to cost. And Sanlam 
should also have  drawn Mr Gs attention to that important  information.
Based on the evidence  thats available theres  nothing to show that Sanlam made  Mr G 
aware of any of the in-house options, whether  that was AVCs  or added years, so I dont 
think Sanlam acted  appropriately there.  So Ive gone on to consider what  I think would have 
happened, on balance, had Mr G been made  aware  of the in-house options.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  that, if he had been  made  aware of his options, 
Mr G would in all likelihood have taken out an AVC. And I should say at this point that, for 
the same  reasons given by the adjudicator,  I think Mr G would have favoured this over 
buying added  years.
If hed been aware  of the AVC option  I dont think that Mr G would still have chosen to incur 
the (probable) higher charges involved in the FSAVC. If Sanlam had drawn Mr Gs attention  
to the fact that AVCs were likely to provide better value for money then I think  its 
reasonable to assume that  Mr G wouldve chosen  to take advantage of the in-house route. 
Sanlam has accepted that the AVCs would probably have offered better value for money  but 
has nevertheless said that an FSAVC  arrangement  was still more  suitable for Mr G because 
of his age and occupation  inferring he was likely to change jobs during his career.  
I note that he did eventually become self-employed and change  positions twice more  in his 
career. But he did also remain within the original occupational  scheme for nearly 20 years 
after the advice  was given. And I dont think age and occupation alone should  necessarily  
signify that an individual is likely  to leave their employer  especially when there was no 
indication from Mr G that this was in fact the case.  If such an assumption is to be made,  my 
view is that this should at least be discussed with the customer to obtain their thoughts  on 
the matter.
Ref: DRN75123913Had suitable advice  been given, Mr G would have  benefited more from the lower costs  of an 
AVC  for that length of time. As and when he then changed employment, he could revisit 
his future  plans and then decide whether a more portable arrangement was better suited to 
him. I consider Mr G would  have  thought  it was in his best interests to obtain greater returns  
from any plan he took out, which was most likely to have been achieved  by taking out an in-
house AVC with relatively lower costs than the FSAVC.
In summary,  therefore, for the reasons  Ive set out above,  Im not persuaded the advice to 
take out the FSAVC was suitable. I think a fair and reasonable conclusion  in this case  would 
be that Mr G would have  contributed  to his employers in-house AVC if his attention  had 
been drawn to the relevant information .
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. My aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to 
the position he would have been,  had he started  an in-house AVC.
Sanlam Financial Services  UK Limited should  therefore undertake  a redress calculation  in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC  review guidance, incorporating the amendment 
below to take into account the position that data for the CAPS mixed with property  index 
isnt available  for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In my view the FTSE UK Private  Investor  Growth Total Return  Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 
1 January 2005, Sanlam should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 
1 January 2005 and the FTSE  UK Private Investor  Growth Total Return Index  thereafter.
If a payment  into Mr Gs plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications,  it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 
25% of the loss would  be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Mr G has confirmed that having recently 
retired, he is a basic rate tax payer.
In addition, I agree with the adjudicator that Sanlam  should pay Mr G £100 for the disruption 
this matter caused to his retirement planning.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7512391