K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the amount  that hes been charged by Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited for damage and excess mileage  when he returned his car at the end of his hire 
agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr A under a hire agreement with VW Financial Services that he 
signed in August 2014. He returned  the car when the agreement  ended in August 2017  and 
it was inspected by a third party acting on behalf of VW Financial Services. The inspection  
report identified a hole in the carpet in the driver  area and that the parcel shelf was missing.  
The cars mileage was recorded  as 39,569.  Mr A then supplied the parcel shelf but he was 
charged £60 for the hole in the carpet and an excess mileage charge of £1,435.35 plus VAT. 
Mr A complained to VW Financial Services about those charges and that the brand had 
been devalued by an emissions  controversy. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She reviewed the 
photo of the damage to the carpet  and was satisfied that the hole in the carpet was beyond 
fair wear and tear. She said that VW Financial Services had waived the charge for the parcel  
shelf. And she said that the agreement contained a provision for excess mileage charges  
and from what shed  seen  Mr A hadnt disputed that hed exceeded the agreed mileage. So 
she felt that VW Financial  Services had acted correctly when applying the excess mileage 
charge. She said that Mr A was contractually  required  to return  the car in good repair  and 
condition  so she didnt think that VW Financial Services was required to waive  the charges 
because of the good condition in which hed returned the car. She couldnt see that an error 
was made  regarding the length of time that it took to complete the inspection and she didnt 
believe that the emissions issue  was of relevance  because the hire agreement  required Mr A 
to make the contractual repayments for 36 months  and she said that the car that he hired 
wasnt impacted by the emissions controversy.
Mr A has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that: 
the hole in the carpet hasnt been  viewed properly (or, if it has, its clear that the area 
in question should be covered by approved mats   he bought  the correct mats  but 
they dont properly cover the area); 
the parcel shelf was provided upon final collection   the charge wasnt waived by VW 
Financial Services; and 
it sent an initial assessor (who was conducting a marketing assessment of the car so 
that the images, video and description could be uploaded to the auction site) which 
isnt covered in the hire agreement and the actual collection happened a week  later.
He also says that hes been pursued by a debt collection  company for payment of the 
outstanding amount. VW Financial Services agreed  to halt further collection activity  until 
after my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN72922492Mr A returned his car to VW Financial  Services when the hire agreement  ended in August 
2017. The car was inspected  by a third party on behalf of VW Financial Services. Mr A has 
complained about the arrangements for the inspection  and the length of time that it took to 
complete the inspection  which meant that he had to take time off work. But Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that there was an unreasonable  delay in 
the inspection  or that it took longer than was acceptable. Nor am I persuaded that VW 
Financial Services has acted incorrectly in connection with the service that it provided to 
Mr A.
The inspection report identified a hole in the carpet in the driver area and that the parcel 
shelf was missing. It also recorded the cars  mileage as being 39,569. Mr A says that he 
supplied the parcel shelf  when the car was collected and hes not been charged for a 
replacement.
The inspection report includes a photo of the hole in the carpet. I consider that the hole is 
more than would be considered to be fair wear  and tear in accordance with the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  guidelines.  And Im not persuaded that there was 
any requirement for mats  to be provided with the car to prevent this type of damage.  So I 
find that its fair and reasonable  in these circumstances  for VW Financial Services  to charge 
£60 for the hole in the carpet.
Mr A signed  the hire agreement in August 2014.  The agreement clearly  refers to maximum 
annual mileage of 10,000  and a maximum total mileage of 30,000. And it clearly says that 
there would be a vehicle mileage charge  of 9p and a maintenance charge  of 6p (both plus 
VAT) for each mile above those limits. When Mr A returned the car, it had been  driven  for 
39,569 miles  which was 9,569 miles more than the maximum total mileage. So I consider  
that it was fair and reasonable for VW Financial Services to charge him £1,435.35 (plus  
VAT) for the excess mileage. Mr A was required to return the car in a good  condition  so Im 
not persuaded that he was entitled  to a discount  on the excess mileage charge because  of 
the good condition in which he returned the car.
Mr A has also complained that the brand had been devalued by an emissions controversy.  
But VW Financial Services  says that Mr As car wasnt  affected  by the emissions  issue  and 
that the evidence shows that theres been no adverse impact on car values as a result  of the 
issue. Mr A had agreed to hire the car for 36 months  and he was required to make 36 
monthly payments  for the car  after which it would  be returned to VW Financial Services.  
Mr A was never  the owner of the car and there was no expectation that he would become 
the owner of the car. So Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that he has 
suffered any loss as a result of the emissions controversy.
VW Financial Services instructed a debt collection agent about the amount that it was owed 
by Mr A and he received  a demand  for payment from the agent. Mr A complained to the 
investigator  who contacted VW Financial Services  and it agreed to halt further collection 
activity until after my decision. Theres no requirement for a creditor  to stop collection activity 
because a complaint  has been  made  to this service. But VW Financial Services  agreed to 
halt collection activity until this decision  which  I consider to fair and reasonable.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that VW Financial  Services has 
acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr A about  the return of his car. And I dont consider 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require it to either waive or reduce the charge for 
the damage to the carpet or the excess mileage charge  or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
Ref: DRN72922493my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7292249