K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that Portafina LLP (formerly known  as Portal Financial Services  LLP)
gave him unsuitable advice.  He says the investments made through  his Self-Invested
Personal Pension (SIPP)  were too high risk and not suitable for him.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision which was issued in
December 2018.  A copy is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold Mr As complaint. In 
summary I said that the recommendation for Mr A to transfer his personal pensions to a 
SIPP wasnt  unreasonable. But, overall, I didnt  agree that the underlying funds he was 
advised to invest  in were  suitable. 
I invited both parties to let me have their further  comments. Mr A responded to confirm  that 
he accepted the provisional decision.  Portafina  responded  and confirmed  that it had nothing 
further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  
I remain of the view that Mr As complaint should  be upheld  on the basis  that the funds he 
was advised to invest in were  unsuitable.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr A would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr A's
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  Portafina  do?
 
To compensate Mr A fairly,  Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 Portafina  should add interest  as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount  of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN77301132If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr A £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of the 
unsuitable advice  it provided Mr A to invest in the UCIS funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Portafina should  give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP fund mixedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average  
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of this 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Portafina should take ownership of the illiquid  investment  by paying a commercial  value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
Ref: DRN77301133If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr A provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr A's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr A into that position. It does not mean  that Mr A 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr A could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Portafina  LLP 
pays the balance.
Ref: DRN77301134determination and award: 
As set out above, I uphold the complaint.  I consider  that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Portafina  LLP should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress  and/or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  on the balance as set out above.
If Portafina LLP does  not pay the recommended amount,  then any investment currently 
illiquid should be retained by Mr A. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from 
the investment  together with the compensation paid by Portafina LLP (excluding any 
interest) equates  to the full fair compensation as set out above.  
Portafina LLP may request  an undertaking from Mr A that either he repays to Portafina  LLP 
any amount Mr A may receive  from the investment thereafter, or if possible  transfers  the 
investment at that point.
 
Mr A should  be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension  plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I 
recommend that Portafina LLP pays Mr A the balance plus any interest on the balance  as 
set out above.  
If Mr A accepts  my determination,  the money  award  is binding  on Portafina.  My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina.
 
Its unlikely that Mr A can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing  to him after the money award has been  paid. Mr A may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Portafina LLP to calculate and pay compensation as set out
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN77301135copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A has complained that Portafina LLP (formerly known as Portal  Financial Services LLP)  gave him 
unsuitable advice. He says the investments made through his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
were too high risk and not suitable for him. 
background
Mr A met with Portafina in August 2010.  The fact find completed  during the sale recorded that:
Mr A was 57 years  old, married with no dependents 
He was working full time, earning  £57,000 per year and was a member of his employers 
pension scheme
His home was worth £220,000 and he had £60,000 outstanding on his mortgage
He had £14,000 on credit cards, less than £2000 in savings and £200 per month disposable 
income
He had four personal pension plans  and was in receipt of a pension from the civil service  
paying £3600 per year
He intended to retirement at 65
He wanted to take maximum  tax free cash to pay off his credit cards, fund home 
improvements and to purchase a yacht
The suitability letter that was issued at the time summarised Mr As objectives, those  being that he 
wanted to use his existing  pensions to provide an income at a later date and to take his tax free cash 
entitlement immediately. He also wanted to retain a residual fund that was invested until he required 
an income in retirement. And Mr A wanted to ensure that his portfolio reflected his current risk and 
reward profile. Based on answers Mr A had given, Portafina deemed him to have a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk. 
The letter further expanded on the risk profile, explaining  that this would mean Mr A required  
relatively  low short-term  security and significantly  upside  potential. The holdings  could 
predominately be in medium  risk equity and property  investments (around 50%) or in a broad 
selection of UK equities. 30% of the portfolio may be invested in higher risk overseas  investments 
with the remainder of the portfolio being invested in fixed interest holding, cash and loan backed 
investments. 
The suitability letter also set out Portafinas recommendations for Mr A. It explained  that it would 
usually recommend  that Mr A leaves  his pension benefits  where they were, as this would be most  
beneficial for him in retirement. But his current circumstances meant that hed like to take his benefits  
immediately. So Portafina  recommended that Mr A transferred  his existing personal pensions  to a 
SIPP, take his 25% tax free entitlement and leave the residual fund invested.  Portafina  also 
recommended that Mr A invest in the following funds:
50% Raithwaites  Hypa Fund
35% Hypa Asia Fund
10 Olive Tree Koroni Fund
5% Cash  Deposit  
Ref: DRN77301136Mr A accepted Portafinas recommendations  and arranged for his personal pensions to be transferred 
to a SIPP.  After the payment of tax free cash the SIPP balance was £127,348.86, and this was 
invested in line with Portafinas recommendations.  
Mr A complained to Portafina in 2016. He said that the funds recommended were unsuitable as both 
the Olive Tree Koroni and Raitwaites Hypa funds had been wound up. So he wanted Portafina  to 
return his original investment  with interest. As he was unable to resolve matters with Portafina, Mr A 
referred his complaint to our service for consideration. 
Portafina initially objected  to our service considering the complaint as it didnt think  it had been 
referred in time. Another  ombudsman considered the objection and determined  that the complaint can 
be considered. 
One of our adjudicators  considered the suitability of the investments within the SIPP;  he didnt 
consider the overall advice  to transfer into a SIPP.  In summary he concluded that: 
It wasnt appropriate  to assess Mr As attitude  to risk solely on the basis of the answers hed 
provided to the questions on the risk profile  questionnaire; the adviser  was expected to 
consider Mr As overall circumstances, whether he was an experienced investor,  if he could 
afford to take any risk with his pension  and if he had adequate savings  and investments  to be 
able to afford any losses.
Given Mr As age and limited savings,  the adjudicator  didnt  think he wouldve  been prepared  
to take a considerable risk with his SIPP investments.  And as his priority was to preserve his 
fund for as long as possible, he thought Mr A shouldve been  placed in a portfolio with a low 
risk profile.
Section 238 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) prohibits  firms from 
communicating an invitation  or inducement to retail clients  to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment  scheme  (UCIS). The FSMA Promotion of Collective  Investment 
Schemes Exemption Order  2001 provided  some  exemptions, where the investor  is 
considered a high net worth  investor or self-certified  sophisticated investor. However,  the 
adjudicator didnt think  that Mr A met the criteria  of a high net worth individual for the purpose 
of investing in a UCIS. And he didnt think he could  be considered  as a sophisticated investor, 
as defined by the Order.
Subsection 5 of section  238 of the FSMA allows  the promotion of UCIS under
additional exemptions, stated in section 4.12 of the Conduct of Business  Sourcebook
(COBS). At the time of the advice, this particular  section  identified eight categories of
investors to whom promotion of a UCIS  may be made. However, having considered all eight 
of these categories the adjudicator didnt think any of these exemptions applied to Mr A. So 
he didnt consider  the three  UCIS  investments shouldve  been recommended. 
The UCIS investments  represented 95% of Mr As pension fund which increased the risk 
profile of the SIPP  beyond that of a moderately adventurous investor.
Mr A shouldve been placed in a low risk portfolio  as he wanted to preserve his pension fund.
Portafina responded to the adjudicators view.  In summary it said that: 
The recommendation for Mr A wasnt based solely on his attitude to risk. It had followed FCA 
guidance of giving suitable advice  and had based its recommendation on Mr As 
circumstances and retirement provisions, as well as his attitude to risk.
Mr A had stated that his pension was not his main provision. He was also already  receiving 
an annuity and he had the full state pension. He also had a company pension in place which, 
if he remained with his employer, would potentially be worth  £76,560, not including  growth. Mr 
A had also stated  that he wished  for the remaining funds  to be reinvested and that he would  
begin receiving  an income from the age of 65. 
Mr A was financially stable and sufficient time before  retirement to account  for any market 
fluctuations. So taking everything into account,  it was clear he should  be assessed as a 
Moderately Adventurous  investor.
Ref: DRN77301137Portafina conducted extensive  due diligence  at the time of the recommendation and the 
overall assessment of Mr As portfolio was low to medium risk. However, the adjudicator  
hadnt requested sight of the due diligence documents.
It was made  clear to Mr A that the recommended  portfolio  had a fixed term of up to 7 years. 
And it was Portfinas understanding at the time of the sale that these  funds would provide a 
regular income stream  to cover any withdrawals  before maturity. It couldnt have  reasonably 
foreseen that the funds would not perform as expected and shouldnt  be held responsible for 
this.
Being exposed to risk doesnt mean that Mr As pension isnt being preserved. Mr A is unlikely  
to be affected by any capital  losses  as UCIS investments  are asset backed.  And Portafina 
has sufficient security in place to guarantee security over all client investments.
Portafina still maintains the complaint is time barred.
Mr A responded to the adjudicators opinion. He said that it was his recollection that when he 
questioned Portfina about the SIPP product offered, he was told that because  hed transferred money  
from Scottish Widows, he could only put it into a SIPP.  And the funds recommended  were  the most  
suitable. Mr A believes he was lied to regarding the SIPP and the investments.
As the complaint remains  unresolved, its been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I currently intend to
uphold the complaint for mostly  the same reasons set out by the adjudicator. But before making a 
final decision,  I wanted  to set out my thoughts regarding  the suitability  of the advice Mr A received to 
transfer his previous personal pension plans into a SIPP,  as it doesnt appear this has previously 
been addressed. 
Was the complaint  made in time? 
As explained  above, a decision has already  been issued determining that Mr A complained within  
three years of when he was first aware  of the cause for complaint. And Im not going  to repeat the 
content of that decision  here.  However, I would like to confirm that following the previous  decision on 
jurisdiction, information has been provided to this service that shows that Mr A did in fact complain 
within six years of the advice he received. Im therefore  satisfied that this is a complaint that I can 
consider under our rules. 
Suitability of the advice to take out the SIPP
Most of Mr As concerns have focused on the funds he was advised  to invest in. But his response to 
the adjudicators  view would suggest he also has concerns about  the overall  advice he was given to 
take out the SIPP. So Ive considered this aspect further. 
The options  available for individuals wanting to take their pension benefits have increased since the 
introduction of the pension freedom legislation in 2015. However, at the time Mr A received advice  in 
2010, the choices  were limited. After obtaining up to date information on Mr As various pension  
arrangements, Portafina wrote to him to explain the options  he had at that time. The letter explained  
that Mr A could:
Do nothing
You could  leave your pension benefits with your current pension providers
Pension Release
You could  release a cash lump sum of up to £44,398 from your pension  fund and leave the 
residual amount invested,  until a time where  by you need to take an income from your 
pension. 
Ref: DRN77301138Take full benefits  and retire
You could  take £44,398  as lump sum and use the remaining fund to produce an income, 
which we can use the open market option to get the best possible deal for you.
A subsequent  telephone call was arranged to talk through Mr As objectives. The fact find completed 
at this time and the suitability letter that was issued following the call, state  that Mr A wished  to 
release funds from his pension so he could repay his credit cards and purchase a yacht. It also says 
other ways to raise this money had been discussed. But Mr A didnt wish to take on further lending,  
including a remortgage, as he didnt want  to have to pay redemption penalties or any further interest 
on the amount hed need  to borrow. The letter also confirmed that Mr A had decided he wanted to 
release his tax free cash entitlement and leave  the remainder of his funds invested  as he didnt have 
an immediate need for income. 
The only way it was possible  for Mr A to release  his tax free cash  was to move  his existing plans into 
drawdown; it wasnt possible  for him to take tax free cash from his personal pension  plans and leave 
the remaining funds invested  in the plans they were in at that time. And the SIPP  that Portafina 
recommended allowed Mr A to facilitate the drawdown  of his tax free cash, leaving the remainder  of 
his funds invested. 
The suitability letter also explained Portafinas reasons for recommending  the SIPP  provider it did, 
those reasons being that it had excellent administration  and technical support.  And it offered an 
extremely competitive  fee structure for their product. 
So, taking the above into consideration, it doesnt seem the advice to transfer Mr As personal  
pension plans  to a SIPP was in itself unreasonable as it did allow Mr A to meet  his objectives.
Suitability of the investments  within the SIPP
Although Im minded to conclude that the advice to take out the SIPP wasnt unsuitable, Im in 
agreement with the adjudicator that the advice  Portafina gave Mr A regarding  the three UCIS 
investments was unsuitable. Ive explained  my reasons  for this below. 
Portafina assessed Mr As risk profile as moderately adventurous based on the information he gave 
in the attitude to risk questionnaire. In summary, this is described as someone who: 
has a moderate to high level of financial knowledge
will usually be a fairly  experienced investor having used a range  of investment products in the 
past
will be willing  to take risk with a substantial proportion  of their available assets
will usually take gambles where  they see the potential rewards being  attractive
Whilst I agree that some of the answers  Mr A gave on the questionnaire might suggest he was willing 
to take some degree of risk, I think other answers  shouldve led Portafina to question  whether  the 
assessment of his risk profile was correct. For example, Mr A provided the following answers to the 
questions below: 
I feel comfortable about  investing  in the stock market. disagree
I generally look for the safest type of investment, even if that 
means lower returns.no strong opinion
I am willing to take substantial financial  risk to earn substantial 
returns.disagree
I have  little experience  of investing in stocks  and shares. agree
When it comes to investing, Id rather be safe than sorry. agree
Given the above,  I dont think moderately adventurous was an accurate reflection of Mr As attitude to 
risk. 
Ref: DRN77301139Portafina says it didnt base  its recommendation solely  on Mr As attitude  to risk. It says it followed  the 
FCA guidance of giving suitable  advice  and took account of Mr As circumstances and retirement  
provision. It also says that it conducted extensive due diligence and its overall  assessment of Mr As 
portfolio was low to medium risk. However, its recommendation was for Mr A to invest 95% of his 
pension fund in UCIS funds so I dont agree that that this could be considered low to medium  risk. 
UCIS funds are unregulated and thus high risk. Although  they may have greater freedom to employ 
techniques to potentially improve returns, this is at the risk of greater volatility. They  can also be high 
risk due to illiquidity  and investing in very particular  areas with narrow  remits. 
The funds Portafina recommended were  all high risk and two were  also illiquid, as explained below. 
a) The Hypa Raithwaite Fund invested in a hotel development in Yorkshire  so was illiquid and its 
assets were narrowly concentrated. 
b) The Hypa Asia Fund invested  in off-plan hotel rooms and villas in Asia. It was illiquid,  
concentrated in a narrow area and involved  currency risk.
c) The Koroni Fund loaned money against assessed financial  claims. It aimed to return in 
excess of 6% per annum over three years.
In July 2010,  one month before Mr A received  advice,  the then regulator, the FSA, issued  a report  
Unregulated  Collective Investment Schemes: Good and poor practice . This gives as an example of 
good practice: The firm set up a maximum  portfolio proportion for UCIS investments within their 
customers portfolio  and monitored it on on-going  basis. This level was between  3% and 5% and was 
backed-up by the Firms robust  and on-going  due diligence and monitoring. The same report  gave as 
an example of poor practice: The firm had a strategy to put all of its customers and all their money  
into one UCIS .
I acknowledge that Portafina says that it had security in place to guarantee security of client 
investments. Im not aware of what this security was but this in itself suggests  to me that Portafina  
was aware that UCIS  funds are high risk. And given the SIPP represented a significant proportion of 
Mr As overall retirement provision; I dont currently agree that the recommendation to invest in the 
three UCIS  funds was suitable for Mr A. 
What should Portafina have advised?
As explained  above, Im currently minded to conclude that the recommendation for Mr A to transfer 
his personal  pensions  to a SIPP  wasnt  unreasonable  based on his recorded  objectives. But, overall, I 
dont think that the underlying funds were suitable for him.
Apart from his pensions and his main residence, Mr A had limited  savings, assets or investments. The 
sales paperwork records that his highest priority was to preserve his pension fund. Given Mr As age 
and his limited savings,  I dont  think he wouldve  been prepared to take a considerable  risk with his 
SIPP investments. I therefore  consider  that Mr A shouldve been placed in a portfolio  with a low risk 
profile, given  his priority to preserve his fund for as long as possible.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr A should  be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would  probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.  
I think  Mr A would have invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what he would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr A's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
Ref: DRN773011310what should Portafina do?
 
To compensate Mr A fairly,  Portafina must:
Compare the performance  of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 Portafina should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr A's pension  plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Portafina  is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr A's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr A is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr A £300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused  as a result of the unsuitable advice 
it provided Mr A to invest in the UCIS funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Portafina should  give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP fund mixedfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment  by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount  
should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance paid as I set out above.
Ref: DRN773011311If Portafina  is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should  be assumed  to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. Portafina may require  that Mr A provides an undertaking  to pay Portafina  any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portafina should use the 
monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  
should be applied  to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if Portafina totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth  with a small  risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital.  
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
I consider that Mr A's risk profile  was in between, in the sense  that he was prepared to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr A into that position. It does  not mean  that Mr A would  have invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr A could have  
obtained from investments  suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Portafina  LLP pays the 
balance.
determination and award: As set out above, Im minded to uphold the complaint,  subject to any 
comments I might receive from the parties. I consider that fair compensation  should  be calculated as 
set out above. My provisional  decision  is that Portafina LLP should pay the amount produced by that 
calculation up to the maximum of £150,000  (including  distress and/or inconvenience but excluding  
costs) plus any interest on the balance  as set out above.
Ref: DRN773011312If Portafina  LLP does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment currently illiquid should  
be retained by Mr A. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the investment together 
with the compensation  paid by Portafina LLP (excluding  any interest)  equates to the full fair 
compensation as set out above. 
Portafina LLP may request an undertaking from Mr A that either he repays  to Portafina LLP any 
amount Mr A may receive from the investment thereafter,  or if possible transfers the investment at 
that point.
 
Mr A should be aware that any such amount  would be paid into his pension plan so he may have to 
realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I recommend that Portafina LLP pays Mr A the balance  plus any interest on the balance as set out 
above. 
If Mr A accepts  my determination, the money award  is binding on Portafina. My recommendation is 
not binding on Portafina.
 
Its unlikely that Mr A can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to him after the money award  has been paid. Mr A may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
..
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to conclude that the complaint should be upheld and I intend to award the compensation  
set out above.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7730113