K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  St Andrews Insurance Plc declined their water damage claim 
under their buildings  insurance policy.
background
In July 2018, Mr and Mrs C made  a claim for damaged caused by water leaking through  the 
ceiling of one of their bedrooms. They say the storm on this particular day caused rainwater 
to come through the roof and cause  damage  to the bedroom ceiling. 
St Andrews  appointed a surveyor who visited Mr and Mrs Cs house  a few days after the 
damage happened. The surveyor report noted  there  was a crack to the ceiling which they 
say Mr and Mrs C had advised  was there for a couple of years.  And that the mortar to the 
parapet had deteriorated  over time. As a result, the surveyor said the damage was caused 
by rainwater ingress over a period  of time and that the damage wasnt attributable to storm 
damage. On receipt of the report,  St Andrews declined to cover  the repairs  for the damage 
to Mr and Mrs Cs property.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think it was fair that the surveyor, who came to visit their house, only 
relied on photographs to determine the damage caused was due to wear and tear and they 
say the surveyor  failed to notice some  debris on the roof. 
Our case handler looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. He didnt think  St Andrews had 
unfairly declined  the claim as he found that the weather conditions on the day the damage  
happened werent consistent  with storm conditions. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed.  They remained of the opinion the damage was caused by the 
storm so the case has been  passed  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to not 
uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  main questions: 
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no  its likely it wont. So Ive considered  these in 
turn.
Ive also looked  at Mr and Mrs Cs policy. It defines  storm  as:
A period of violent  weather defined as:
strong winds with gusts  of at least 55mph, sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or
hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or 
breaks glass.
Ref: DRN73860522So Ill also consider if St Andrews have assessed  Mr and Mrs Cs claim fairly  in line with 
these terms.
Has it been proven, on balance, there  were  storm conditions on or around the date the 
problem occurred?
Mr and Mrs C say the damage to their property was caused by heavy rainfall which  they 
believe was due to a storm. St Andrews said there  werent storm conditions present  at the 
time Mr and Mrs C claimed and that the mortar had deteriorated around the roof parapet  
over time allowing water  ingress.
Mr and Mrs C said there  were two dates when storm conditions were  present. Ive checked 
the weather reports  around the time the loss occurred, including  around these dates. And I 
havent seen any evidence of storm conditions during this time. 
There may well have  been a period of bad weather  around the time Mr and Mrs C made the 
claim, but Im not satisfied  that the amount of rainfall at that time was exceptional  or of 
unusual intensity. And the wind did not reach the 55mph speed the policy requires.  So Im 
not persuaded, on balance that it amounts to a storm as defined by the policy. So Id answer 
no to this question.
As the answer  to question one is no, I dont  need to consider the other two questions. And I 
dont think St Andrews were unfair when they said they wouldnt pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim 
for storm  damage.  
The surveyors report says that all damage noted  was consistent with a longer standing 
problem, and therefore wasnt sudden damage. So based on what  Ive seen in the 
surveyors report and the photos in the report, Im persuaded  that its more  likely than not, 
the damage caused to the bedroom  ceiling had been going on for some time.
I note Mr and Mrs Cs comments that the surveyor took some  photos of the damage.  It isnt 
unusual for a surveyor to take pictures  of the damaged area to assess  how its been caused  
and the level of damage caused. So I dont think it was wrong for St Andrews to rely on 
photos of the damaged area, along with weather reports, to determine  how the damage was 
caused. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73860523
Ref: DRN7386052