K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr S says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr S and Capital  One my provisional decision on 5 March 2019.  I said that before I 
made my final decision Id look at anything  else the parties sent me so long it I got it before 5 
April 2019.
Since I issued my provisional  decision, the parties  have not sent my anything further to 
consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions for the same reasons  as in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasons  again below.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit  share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN72667422Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, but for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  Capital One should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr S the difference 
between what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
I understand Capital  One intends to offset this redress against the outstanding balance on
Mr Ss account in the first instance, which  Im satisfied is reasonable.
my final decision
The policy wasnt mis-sold   so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7266742