K820x#14complaint
J, a limited company,  complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc closing its business  bank accounts.  
J is represented by its director,  who Ill call Mr P.
background
HSBC closed Js business accounts in February 2019. Mr P says he didnt receive  any 
letters or notices  about  this. He says HSBC approved a loan to J a few days  before it closed 
its business accounts. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He said while  
HSBC was entitled to close Js account, it could have dealt with the matter better. He said 
HSBC approved a loan to J on 5 February 2019,  despite knowing the business  account 
(which would be used  to make repayments) would be closed on 11 February  2019.  The 
investigator said HSBC  should  pay £100 for poor service and waive or refund any late 
payment fees while J made other arrangements  for the loan repayments. 
HSBC didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me. I didnt  agree  with all of the 
investigators recommendations, so I issued a provisional decision to explain  why. In 
summary, I said HSBC had given notice  in accordance with the account terms and was 
entitled to close  Js account. I didnt think it was fair and reasonable to require  it to pay 
compensation. 
J didnt agree. Mr P said HSBC didnt do enough to contact him before closing Js account.  
He said it should  have used all means possible to contact him and could at least  have called 
or emailed. He said he didnt want to move Js account elsewhere. The unexpected account 
closure and being without  an account  for a time caused inconvenience and embarrassment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
HSBC wrote to J in September 2018 asking for information as part of its safeguard  review,  
which is intended to protect customers from fraud and financial  crime.  HSBC  says Mr P 
would also have seen  banners when using  online  banking. It says it didnt receive the 
information it requested.
The terms and conditions  of Js account  say HSBC  can close  the account by giving notice.  
HSBC gave notice  to J. HSBC says the letters and notice it sent were correctly  addressed,  
using the address it had for J in its records.
Mr P says he didnt receive  the letters and notices and didnt see any online warnings. I 
appreciate that the account  being  closed would have been  a shock, and no doubt caused  
inconvenience. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think  that HSBC  made  an error 
when it sent the notice  or closed Js account.  HSBC didnt have to contact Mr P by phone  or 
email  it gave notice in accordance with the account terms. 
Ref: DRN76752722HSBC approved a loan to J after giving notice to close its business account. Mr P is unhappy 
about this. I should make  it clear that the complaint he raised  with HSBC was about  the 
closure of Js account, so thats what Im considering here. And from what  Mr Ps said, hes 
not complaining  about the loan itself, rather that he finds it odd that HSBC  would offer a loan 
when it had decided  to close Js accounts.  But I dont think this means  it was wrong  for 
HSBC to close Js accounts.
Mr P applied for the loan online.  He intended  that loan repayments would be made  from the 
business account. As the business  account was due to close shortly after the loan was taken 
out, this could have caused problems. But J opened  a business account elsewhere  and is 
making loan repayments.  HSBC says there  havent  been any missed  payments or related 
charges applied to the loan. 
I must take into account here that HSBC had given notice to close Js business account.  The 
closure notice said that other banking arrangements would  have to be made, including  for 
any term loan repayments.  It didnt know Mr P hadnt received the notice, and so hadnt 
made other arrangements.
I appreciate Js account being closed caused  difficulties, and having to re-arrange payments 
with customers and suppliers was both inconvenient and embarrassing for Mr P. But I dont 
think HSBC made an error  when  it closed Js accounts. So I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require  it to pay compensation to J.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7675272