K821x#15complaint
G, a business partnership, complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
incorrectly required it to repay some of its debts.
Mr A, one of the partners,  is dealing with the complaint on Gs behalf.
background
G has a business  current account, under which they had an arranged overdraft with a 
£30,000 limit. They  also had a credit card account, with a credit limit of £40,000.
Under the terms of the card account, G had to repay the full balance  each  month. They had 
a direct debit set up from their RBS current account to make  these  payments.
Gs September 2018 direct debit payment to the card account  took their current account  
balance beyond the £30,000  overdraft  limit. Further payments made  over the weeks that 
followed meant that despite  some credits being  made to the current account, they had an 
overdrawn balance of over £75,000 by 5 November.
RBS discussed  the repayment  proposals with G over this period. It withdrew the card 
account. G made lump  sum payments of around £17,600 and £20,000 to the current  account 
in late November and early December. But the account was still over the agreed overdraft 
limit. So RBS issued  a formal demand  for repayment for the outstanding balance  (of around 
£38,000) in February 2019.
The following  month, RBS contacted  G in respect  of an ongoing and independent claim they 
had in respect of their treatment by the banks Global Restructuring  Group  (GRG).  Through 
this, Mr A became aware that under  its internal policy, RBS wasnt taking recovery action 
against customers with outstanding GRG claims until they were settled. The bank 
subsequently withdrew its demand.
Mr A complained. Initially he said that RBS ought  not to have sought  to recover any funds 
from G. But he later revised this, saying that G should only have been asked to repay 
amounts above  the £70,000 combined limit under their accounts.  He said G had been  
deprived the use of the funds theyd paid back   and wanted the bank to refund them.
RBS apologised  for what it said was an oversight in issuing the demand. But it said it had 
been reasonable to recover the amount over and above the agreed £30,000 limit. So it didnt  
agree to return any of the funds. Mr A remained  unhappy, so he referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  reviewed Gs complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. He 
didnt think we could  fairly require RBS to return funds that had been used to repay debts 
over and above the current  account limit of £30,000. But he thought the bank had put G to 
unnecessary inconvenience by starting recovery action against  its own policy. So to 
compensate G for this, he recommended it pay £250.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He said that G had only been around £5,000 over 
their limit  so this is all they needed to pay to bring the account back into order.  And he said 
RBSs actions had put G under severe  financial strain along with the inconvenience  of 
raising funds elsewhere, for which he thought £10,000 would be fair compensation. 
Ref: DRN78095042With no agreement reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr As position to be that RBS ought  to have allowed G to maintain their 
£70,000 credit limit across  their current account  (with a £30,000 overdraft)  and their card 
account (with a £40,000 limit). But I dont  agree with that. 
The terms and conditions  of the card account  required G to repay any outstanding balance  
in full each month.  So the card balance was legitimately  claimed  from Gs current account by 
direct debit in September, October  and lastly November 2018.
It was, predominantly,  these payments that took Gs overdrawn balance beyond their agreed 
limit. By late November, this was over £75,000  in debit.  That was more  than £45,000  beyond  
the agreed limit. So I think RBS was entitled to request G to bring  their facilities  back into 
order  by repaying the £45,000 by which it had exceeded the overdraft limit. In the event, G 
made payments totalling around  £38,000  leaving the account around  £7,000  over the 
agreed limit. 
The banks rights in this respect werent affected by its own policy.  Under  that policy  an 
informal, internal measure its adopted   RBS had decided not to initiate formal  recovery  
procedures where  the borrower had an outstanding GRG claim. But I think  theres a clear  
difference between  taking  formal action to recover a debt (such as the formal demand, which 
carried with it the threat  of legal action),  and requiring accounts to be managed within  the 
agreed limits. RBS was still within its rights  to request repayment of amounts above those 
limits  and to withdraw these credit facilities altogether  (as it later did).
So I dont  see any basis for fairly  requiring RBS to refund any of Gs payments. It was money 
owed by G above and beyond the agreed limit, that RBS was entitled to reclaim.
RBS accepts that in line with its policy,  it ought not to have subsequently started the formal 
recovery procedures (i.e. issuing the formal  demand  for repayment) in respect of the 
remaining £38,000 balance. This was rectified  fairly swiftly   and G didnt actually repay  any 
funds over and above the £30,000 limit as a result of this error  anyway. 
RBS has apologised  for the oversight.  Like our investigator, I can see that having to deal 
with the formal demand (and ultimately, getting  it withdrawn) wouldve put G to some  
inconvenience. For this, I think its fair that RBS pays G compensation of £250.  I know  that 
Mr A doesnt  think £250 is anywhere near enough.  But thats because he thinks the bank 
was wrong to request the level of repayment  that it did  as this, he says,  put G to some 
considerable inconvenience  in arranging finance.  But as I dont agree that RBS made an 
error in that respect, all Im awarding compensation for is the inconvenience caused  by the 
formal demand.  And for that, I think £250 is fair.
Ref: DRN78095043my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc to pay G 
compensation of £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.  
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7809504