K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BOI)  mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about an MPPI policy taken out in 1997 when Mr and Mrs A applied  for a 
mortgage. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The mortgage was in joint names but 
from the application form it looks like the MPPI policy covered Mr A only. The policy  was 
designed to pay a monthly  benefit if Mr A could  not work due to an accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment.  
When Mr and Mrs A complained to BOI in 2017  it wrote to them to say it held no information 
about the policy. 
When Mr and Mrs A asked us to step in, BOI discovered information about the policy 
including the application form for the mortgage and the MPPI and sent it to us. 
BOI then told us that a broker and not BOI had sold the policy to Mr and Mrs A.                     
In February 2019  another ombudsman from this service issued a decision finding that BOI 
was responsible for the sale and the complaint.
In August  2019  our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld.  BOI has not 
replied to the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
BOI has not told us whether it advised  Mr and Mrs A to take out the policy  or whether it gave 
them information only. But I dont think it matters  as however it sold the policy it needed to 
give Mr and Mrs A clear,  fair and not misleading information. I dont think it did, and I dont 
think Mr and Mrs A would have bought  the policy if BOI had given  clear  information.
 
The policy sold to cover Mr A excluded claims for, Disability due to a Pre-Existing Medical  
Condition. 
Mr A has been consistent that he was diagnosed with a serious illness in 1995 and had to 
take six months off work. I think Mr A would  have difficulty  in claiming for any time off related 
to any possible recurrence of the illness or any illness linked to it.
I think Mr A would have thought the most likely  reason for him to need time off in the future  
would be due to his illness. So if hed been  clearly  told the policy  would not cover him for 
this, I dont think he would have taken the policy. 
BOI has told us it would have given  Mr and Mrs A clear information. It has shown us a leaflet 
and policy  document  from the time of the sale. I dont know  if Mr and Mrs A would have been 
given these to read before  they agreed to the policy, or given the time to read them  
Ref: DRN75113562thoroughly. But even if they were  I dont think the important exclusion for pre-existing 
medical conditions  was made clear within these documents.  For example in the policy  
document under the section headed, What is not covered, there  are 14 separate  items.  
Item five refers to, Disability due to a Pre Existing  Medical Condition. Mr and Mrs A would  
then need to refer to another  page for a definition of a pre-existing medical  condition.
Ive also looked  at the part of the mortgage application that Mr and Mrs A completed to buy 
the policy. I note there are some questions here about eligibility. One of which  asks the 
consumer to confirm  they are not, absent from work due to sickness  or surgery. But there  
is no question asking  if the consumer had a pre-existing  medical  condition.  I think  the danger 
here is that the way the application is set out may cause the applicant to think  they were 
covered as long as they had returned  to work.
So I dont  think the exclusion  was made  clear  and I dont think Mr and Mrs A would have 
bought the policy if it had been. So Mr and Mrs A have lost out because of BOIs errors.
I note that in its business file submitted in August 2019 BOI said this complaint  had been  
registered against BOI in error  and its given the name  of another business  but it hasnt given 
any reasons for this.  Ive thought about  this but it issued a final response letter in 2017  to  
Mr and Mrs A giving the name of the business as BOI. It also argued previously that a broker  
sold the policy and another ombudsman has issued a decision finding  that BOI is 
responsible for the complaint. Ive not seen any evidence  of BOI challenging that decision at 
the time.  It follows that I am issuing  this final decision against BOI.
  
putting things right
BOI should put Mr and Mrs A in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out MPPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and BOI should:
Pay Mr and Mrs A the amount they paid each  month  for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr A made a successful  claim under  the MPPI policy, BOI can take off what  he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BOI to take off tax from this interest. BOI must give            
Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay   
Mr and Mrs A compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN75113563
Ref: DRN7511356