K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about the treatment of her by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in 
respect of her current account. 
background
Miss G complains  that Barclays has acted unfairly, inappropriately, immorally or even 
illegally in charging  her various account  fees over a number of years. And that in engaging 
with her, whether over the phone or in writing, it has been aggressive, unsympathetic and 
caused confusion.
On 6 March 2019 Barclays sent Miss G a letter. In summary it reminded Miss G of its right, 
in certain circumstances, to close her account.
On 8 March 2019 Barclays sent Miss G a final response letter  (FRL). In summary Barclays  
said it wasnt upholding Miss Gs complaint. It also said it wasnt its intention, when sending 
its letter dated 6 March 2019, to cause upset.
On 15 March 2019 Barclays sent Miss G a further  letter. In summary it said it had nothing  
further to add to its FRL dated 8 March 2019.
Miss Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that Barclays 
hadnt acted unfairly  in its dealings with her and its treatment of her.
Miss G disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to make it clear that I make  no finding in this decision about Barclays treatment 
of Miss G prior to mid-2017. This is because her concerns in this respect  have already been  
considered by our service  under one or more  previous complaint references.
Since mid-2017 Miss G has:
incurred a number  of account charges, most of which were overdraft usage charges  
set at 75p a day
entered into a number  of exchanges  with Barclays, in writing and by phone
Now I dont underestimate the difficulties Miss G has suffered since  mid-2017.  But taking 
everything into account Im satisfied  that Barclays has (since  mid-2017) treated her fairly and 
reasonably and positively and sympathetically.
Miss G has made detailed submissions to our service. And whilst I dont intend to respond in 
similar detail,  I can confirm Ive read them all and taken them all into account  when  making 
my decision.  So if I dont mention a particular point,  or piece of evidence,  it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference  it to explain my 
decision. I hope Miss G doesnt take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal  
nature of our service. 
Ref: DRN76203292I would also add that were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we 
investigate a complaint.  We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without  
interference from anyone  else.  Its up to us to decide what evidence we need  to decide a 
complaint, where  we should get it from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have  
it. And Im satisfied Ive enough evidence to decide  this complaint.
Miss G, amongst  other things, complains about  the charges  she has incurred on her account 
since mid-2017, which as I say above  are (in the main) 75p a day. Ive looked at these 
charges and Im satisfied  that that they have been applied in line with Miss Gs account 
terms and conditions. So Ive no grounds to direct  Barclays to refund these  on the basis it 
had no right to charge  them.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. Notwithstanding that in my view these charges 
have been applied in line with Miss Gs account terms and conditions, I need to be satisfied 
that Barclays, knowing what it did about  Miss Gs circumstances, did enough to support and 
assist her. This is because although  Barclays isnt obliged  to refund or suspend  charges, or 
take any specific action  for that matter, when one of its customers is in financial difficulty, its 
obliged to respond to these  difficulties positively and sympathetically.
Barclays has provided detailed notes in respect  of Miss Gs account, including  details about  
contact it had with her and she had with it. Taking everything into account, including  what 
Miss G herself has said and submitted and having  listened to a sample  of telephone calls 
that took place,  Im satisfied that these  notes can be relied  upon  as being an accurate 
reflection of Barclays management of Miss Gs account and its treatment of her.
In my view these notes show that since mid-2007 Barclays  has done its best to assist  
Miss G. But for whatever reason Miss G was unable, or reluctant,  to engage with Barclays 
resulting in a number  of exchanges becoming unproductive. In particular I think its worth 
pointing out that since mid-2007 Barclays has:
offered Miss G access  to one or more  of its specialist departments to provide  her with 
help and support,  such as its financial  assistance team and its specialist case 
handling team
refunded, or offered  to refund,  a number of charges debited to her account since the 
beginning of 2019
offered to suspend  account charges for 12 months if Miss G was in agreement  to her 
account overdraft  facility being removed
offered Miss G an alternative  account to allow  her to better manage her finances 
going forward
I appreciate Miss G might disagree. But having considered  everything  both parties have said 
and submitted Im satisfied that since mid-2017 Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Miss G and treated her both positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN76203293my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision also represents the 
last stage of this services  dispute  resolution procedure.
Although Ive not upheld this complaint I would remind Barclays  Bank  UK PLC of its 
obligation to continue to treat Miss G positively  and sympathetically going  forward.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2019 .
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7620329