K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality and/ or 
misrepresented. As a result,  he says hes suffered a financial loss and wants  compensation.
background
Mr C tells us he acquired  the vehicle in 2012  from a dealer Ill call A. Initially this was 
through a hire purchase agreement - which he repaid in full later that year.  He says he 
subsequently became  aware of an issue relating to emissions from the vehicle. And he says 
had he been aware of this at the time (it only became known in 2015) he wouldnt have 
acquired the vehicle.
In 2017 Mr C says he took the vehicle for a manufacturers fix to be applied. Following this 
he says he noticed  a number of problems  with the vehicle which resulted in engine  judder. 
And the vehicle didnt  feel safe to drive.  Mr C says that A did some work but didnt identify all 
the faults. He said he decided  to part-exchange the vehicle. But when it came to valuation he 
said A offered  only £4,600 as against  £7,000 which he told us had been offered by an online 
dealer Ill call W. Mr C says he felt hed no choice but to accept as he could  not find it 
within my heart to cheat  someone else.
VWFS told us an investigation had been carried out in 2017 relating to the diesel particulate 
filter (DPF)  pressure  sensor. It said this was not connected with any emissions issue.  It said 
the vehicle was of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose  and as described when supplied to 
Mr C. It said specific  information about emissions levels  had not been included  with sales  
literature. Nor was there any evidence the vehicle  was unsafe. It said there was no evidence  
the resale value  of the vehicle had been  affected  by the emissions issue. And that it was 
Mr Cs choice in deciding  which offer to take when he came to part-exchange the vehicle.
I issued provisional  decision on this complaint on 21 January 2019  indicating I did not intend 
to uphold the complaint. VWFS has replied but said it had nothing to add. Mr C has not 
replied. As no new evidence has been  provided  by the parties, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision which is repeated in my final decision set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its obvious Mr C has experienced a substantial amount of upset  and inconvenience  over the 
various issues which affected this vehicle and that he feels strongly about this. Im sorry hes 
had to encounter  such problems.
This is a complex complaint and theres a lot of material  which  - whilst helpful in terms of 
providing the background and context  - doesnt actually affect  the outcome. So if I dont 
mention an item its not because I havent taken it on board. Its just I dont think I need  to 
refer to it separately to reach what I think is the correct outcome.
At the outset I should explain I can only look at matters within our jurisdiction which are 
regulated financial  activities. Ill explain the relevance of this later in more detail.
Ref: DRN70111622When Mr C first complained he mentioned issues which had become known about the 
vehicle only some years after he had acquired  it. And he said he wouldnt  have  acquired  the 
vehicle had he known  of these issues in 2012.  Mr C has now indicated,  following the 
adjudicators view, that his main cause for complaint is what  happened in 2017 after the 
manufacturers fix had been applied. But for reasons Ill explain I dont think I can look at all 
the issues which Mr C would wish.
Ill deal with the earlier history as it is highly relevant to what  subsequently happened. Mr C 
initially acquired the vehicle in 2012 through a hire purchase agreement. Under the relevant 
legislation at the time this meant  that as the supplier of both the vehicle and finance  VWFS  
was responsible for the vehicle being of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as described. 
Although reference  was made in the adjudicators view to the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
being the legislation considered in determining satisfactory quality  - in 2012 the Sale of 
Goods Act 1979 was the relevant law.
Its important to understand that whilst I dont apply the law directly I do take it into account. 
So its necessary  for me to make  it clear Ive considered the relevant legislation. As it 
happens it makes no difference to the outcome as the issue  of what  amounts to satisfactory 
quality was not materially affected by the change in legislation.
Ive not seen any evidence to say the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality or was not fit for 
purpose when  first acquired by Mr C and when the vehicle  was subject to the finance 
agreement. Nor is there any evidence of misrepresentation.
Not long after he acquired the vehicle  Mr C decided  to repay  the finance agreement  and 
purchase the vehicle  outright. This meant  he became  the legal owner and there  ceased  to 
be any financial agreement under which VWFS retained any interest  in the vehicle. By 
purchasing the vehicle  Mr C was effectively accepting  the vehicle in the condition  it was in at 
the time he became the legal owner - including any existing  consumer  rights.
As Im of the view the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality, fit for purpose  and had not been 
misrepresented at the time Mr C acquired the vehicle through the regulated  finance 
agreement Im not upholding the complaint in respect of these aspects.
Ordinarily I wouldnt need to offer any further explanation. But since  the adjudicators view, 
Mr C has emphasised hes mostly concerned about  what happened in 2017.This is after the 
vehicle manufacturer  had applied a fix in relation to a well-publicised problem over 
emissions. And its this event which Mr C seems  to think was the main cause of the 
subsequent issues.  So out of courtesy, Ill go into some detail as to why I dont think  I can 
extend the complaint to look at the merits of this part of the complaint.
By this time there was no regulated finance agreement  in place in relation to the vehicle. And 
this service cant deal with complaints about activities  which are not regulated financial 
activities. For example, the buying,  selling and repairing  of motor vehicles is not a regulated 
financial activity. And by 2017  Mr C was the sole owner of the vehicle. So what  happened in 
terms of the repairs and subsequent reselling of the vehicle  (or any other matter after he 
became the sole owner in 2012) is not something  I can look at.
I think I should make it clear that Im not casting doubt on what Mr C has told us. And Im not 
saying he might not have  had other  means  of seeking redress if he had wished to take such 
action. Im just saying its not something this service  can look at.
Ref: DRN70111623In summary,  I do not think there is any evidence that the vehicle - when originally supplied -
was not of satisfactory quality or as described. I believe it was fit for purpose  and had not 
been misrepresented. So whilst I know it will come  as disappointment to Mr C I dont intend 
to uphold this complaint
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7011162