K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed  to treat him fairly in relation to the 
terms and conditions applied to his mortgage  account and the related mortgage current 
account (MCA).
background
In 2008 Mr A took out a mortgage with Barclays, through its residential mortgage lending  
business, Woolwich. Barclays  did not provide mortgage advice on the sale as it was 
introduced by an independent financial adviser (IFA) that was acting for Mr A. The mortgage 
came with a related MCA. 
The MCA is a separate facility  from the mortgage.  It can operate  like a normal  bank current  
account - albeit its secured on the mortgaged  property  - and if an overdraft is agreed on it 
thats call the reserve.  The reserve operates as an overdraft on an interest-only basis. As 
with any standard  overdraft, it is repayable  on demand. Borrowers are free to repay  the 
reserve, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time.  The reserve  also becomes 
immediately repayable in full when  the related mortgage account  is repaid  either when the 
mortgage reaches  the end of its term or if the mortgage is repaid  sooner (for example, on 
sale or remortgage of the property).
There was no agreed reserve limit on the MCA when the mortgage completed in 2008. In 
2009 Mr A applied, through his IFA, for an £11,000  reserve limit and that was put in place. 
As the mortgage  progressed, the reserve limit on the MCA increased as the capital balance  
on the mortgage decreased. This was standard practice by Barclays at the time. Mr A used 
the reserve over the years, and for many years  the debt balance  has stayed the same with 
no transactions on it; it had a debt balance of £24,838 against a reserve  limit of £24,840. 
The interest charged on that debt is debited to the main mortgage  account rather  than the 
MCA. In recent years, as Mr A hasnt  made  any payments towards that interest, his overall 
mortgage debt has been increasing each month.
In March 2018 Mr As direct debit bounced and his monthly mortgage payment wasnt  made  
that month.  In April 2018 his direct debit again bounced, but this time he made  a manual 
payment to cover it. Then in May 2018  a Barclays call-handler told Mr A that he could take a 
payment holiday  as his mortgage account  was in a pre-payment position. Whilst she 
explained the mortgage balance would increase, she didnt tell Mr A that this could trigger an 
automatic refresh of the reserve limit.
As agreed  Mr A didnt make any payments in May, June and July 2018. But in July 2018  he 
received a letter from Barclays which said he was over his reserve  limit; the letter said he 
had a £24,838 debt balance against  a revised  reserve limit of £22,820. 
Mr A complained to Barclays.  It apologised  for not telling Mr A that his reserve  limit might  be 
subject to an auto-refresh, however  confirmed  that even if hed made  his normal mortgage  
payments for those  three  months then the refresh would  still have  happened. It offered him 
£150 for the inconvenience, and offered to credit  £168.14 to his mortgage account to cover 
the payments  due in May and June 2018.
Our adjudicator felt Barclayss  offer was fair and didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A didnt  
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN72594932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mr A, but although Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties.
The mortgage conditions  state that Barclays may vary or withdraw  the amount of the reserve  
limit. The MCA reserve  limit isnt a contractual term. Theres nothing  in the mortgage offer, 
mortgage conditions  or mortgage deed  that says Barclays is under any contractual  obligation 
to offer an MCA reserve equivalent  to the amount of capital paid off the mortgage. The MCA 
conditions state  that Barclays  can vary the reserve limit.
Ive looked at everything and having  done  so Im satisfied that even if Mr A had made his 
normal payments in May, June and July 2018  then the auto-refresh  of his reserve  limit would 
still have taken place.  Thats  because this happens when the mortgage  balance increases or 
decreases by £2,000  or more. Here  Mr A was paying (from  December 2017) about  £84 a 
month into his mortgage account, but he was being charged interest of around  £123  a 
month. So each  month,  even without him taking  the three-month payment break, Mr As 
mortgage debt was increasing. As that had been the case for many  years it had a cumulative 
effect, and once that £2,000 figure was breached then the auto-refresh was triggered.
Barclays has admitted that its call-handler should  have told Mr A that his reserve limit might  
be subject to an auto-refresh,  and that she also should have noticed Mr A was already over 
his total credit limit; at the time Mr A called  he was already more  than £1,900 over his total 
credit limit (which was around £79,500).
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple  human  error that the call-handler  didnt explain things to 
Mr A. When were  looking at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to 
place the consumer in the position they would be in if the correct  information had been 
given. 
If the correct  information had been  given, Mr A would have been told he was nearly  £2,000 
over his credit limit already and his reserve limit might be subject to an auto-refresh. Mr A 
could never  have been in the position that he wasnt already nearly £2,000  over his credit 
limit and his reserve limit wouldnt be refreshed.  It seems  unlikely,  based  on the conduct of 
the accounts, that Mr A had £2,000 readily available  to bring  his overall  debt back  within  the 
credit limit. So the only thing that might have happened differently is that Mr A might have 
made his normal payments in May and June 2018.  As Barclays  has already  offered to credit 
those amounts to his mortgage account theres nothing further it needs to do here. Whilst 
Mr A also didnt make his July 2018  payment Im satisfied Barclays doesnt need to cover 
that one for him as he found out there was a problem in July (he phoned to complain on 
18 July) so he was on notice and could have made the payment  before the end of the month 
if he wished. I cant hold Barclays  liable  for the fact he chose not to.
Ref: DRN72594933Barclays made a mistake in the phone call, but Im satisfied the situation would have been 
broadly the same even if Mr A had been given all the correct information at that time.  He was 
already nearly  £2,000 over his total credit  limit, and his reserve limit would always have been 
subject to an auto-refresh around that time.  So the three-month payment holiday didnt 
actually cause this situation.
Mr A complains that his credit record has been  negatively affected by Barclays. But Barclays 
is required to report correctly the state of the mortgage and the related MCA. Its a fact that 
the total credit limit was exceeded and effectively money has been borrowed by Mr A on an 
unauthorised basis.  I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I should warn Mr A that this situation will recur unless he pays  enough into his mortgage 
account each  month  to cover the interest due on both the mortgage and the MCA, otherwise 
the overall debt will simply  keep increasing month  on month.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied the compensation offered by Barclays  is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense I consider Barclays Bank UK 
PLC made a fair offer.  I leave it to Mr A to decide if  on reflection  he now wishes  to accept 
that. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my 
decision before  4 November 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7259493