K820x#14complaint
Ms T complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in 2005. She said she didnt ask for any PPI, or ever agree to it.
background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Ms T with a view that the complaint about the 
mis-sale shouldnt be upheld. However, Capital One has agreed  to pay back  to Ms T some 
of the money  it got from the commission it obtained,  when it sold her the PPI.
She still thinks the policy was mis-sold in the first place and has asked for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint about the mis-sale. 
When she applied for the card, Ms T didnt request any PPI. It was sold during a phone call 
when she was activating her card with Capital One.  Its unfortunate that we no longer have 
access to a recording of the call, but Capital One sent us a copy of a telephone script which 
it says its staff were trained to follow when selling PPI over the phone.
I obviously cant say for sure if this script was followed  in Ms Ts case. And I think  that even if 
it generally was, its possible Ms T wasnt told everything about the policy  she should have 
been. But Ms T says she wasnt ever aware the PPI had been added. I therefore asked to 
see her credit card statements and I can see Payment Protection Insurance  was being 
charged on her account immediately after the sale date and in the subsequent months.
I completely understand that Ms T might  not remember any of this, but I think  its more  likely 
Ms T agreed to the cover at the time of the call. I also think she would  have been  able to see 
it had been set up on her account. I think if she hadnt ever agreed,  shed have wanted to 
know why the charges  were on her statements.
As I say, its certainly possible  Capital  One could have explained the policy in more  detail  
than it did, but the script showed  she ought to also have been told about the main features of 
the policy. So overall, I think Ms T probably had enough  to decide what she wanted to do. 
And even  If I accept more  could  have been done by Capital One, I dont think this makes any 
difference to my decision.
This is because Ive carefully  looked at Ms Ts circumstances and I think she was eligible for 
the cover  and not caught by any of the main exclusions  we tend to see in these types  of 
policy. Ms T said she didnt have any protection from sickness  with her job so I think  this 
makes the PPI policy of use to her.
Ref: DRN76641912She also said her partner could have  helped out if needed. I dont doubt they would  have 
wanted to help but that would depend  on their financial situation at any given time. And the 
PPI wouldve  paid off 10% of her outstanding credit card balance each month for up to a 
year if she made a successful claim. This would have been in addition to any other means  
Ms T had. So overall, I can see how the PPI couldve  been  of use to Ms T.
Im really  sorry  to disappoint  Ms T but I dont have enough to say this policy was mis-sold. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to her.
But it agreed to pay some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because when the policy  was sold,  
Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium). It should have told Ms T about that. Because  Capital One didnt  tell her, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what Capital  One needs to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Capital One should  re-work  the credit  card account and pay back 
to Ms T the difference between what Ms T owes and what  she wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. It should also 
pay Ms T 8%* simple interest  if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms T can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms T. 
But it agreed to pay back to Ms T any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7664191