K820x#14complaint
Mr P is complaining about Coventry  Building  Society  (Coventry  BS) because he says it 
failed to make sure he had critical illness insurance covering the full amount of his mortgage.
background
In 1998, Mr P took out a mortgage life insurance (MLI) policy  with Aviva (formerly 
Norwich Union) to cover his new repayment mortgage. The policy  was set to run for 20 years  
and would pay out if he died or was diagnosed with a critical illness. It initially provided cover 
of £30,000 that was set to decrease as he repaid the mortgage for a monthly  premium  of 
£10.
In 2004, Mr P moved home  and took a new mortgage for £100,000 with his partner. His 
original MLI policy continued  unchanged  and he also took out a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy, again  with Aviva. This was set to pay a regular income 
for a limited  period if he or his partner found themselves out of work  for a monthly premium 
starting at £32.
Sadly, Mr P has since experienced health problems  that mean he cant work and Aviva  
accepted claims on both of the above  policies. But because the amount of his critical illness  
cover wasnt  increased in 2004,  the amount due from his MLI policy  wasnt  enough to repay 
the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence  Coventry BS was to blame  for Mr P not taking further critical illness cover 
when he increased  his mortgage  in 2004. In particular, she noted there was evidence it had 
discussed additional cover in 2004 and again in 2006 but that he hadnt gone ahead.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators assessment. He maintains Coventry BS failed to make  
appropriate arrangements  and says he didnt take the cover offered in 2004  and 2006  
because he thought he already had it.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for similar  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Ps health problems and I realise hes 
been going through a very difficult time. I have great  sympathy  for the difficult position he 
finds himself in.
Mr P has made detailed submissions in connection  with this and his separate complaint 
about Aviva  that was decided by my colleague last year. Ive considered what hes given and 
told us very carefully,  but I havent tried to address every point hes raised in this decision. 
Ive instead concentrated on what I think are the key issues. 
Aviva says Mr P only paid premiums for the two policies detailed  above and Ive not seen 
any evidence to show otherwise. 
Ref: DRN71412462The MLI policy provided life and critical  illness  cover  to match his original mortgage. The 
amount of cover wouldnt automatically increase when his mortgage  did. If he wanted to 
increase the amount of cover he had in 2004,  he would have needed to either take a new 
policy for the additional amount of his new mortgage or cancel his original policy and take a 
new one for the whole amount. Ive not seen clear  evidence to show Mr P was told the terms 
of his policy were being  changed to match the new mortgage. And because he continued  to 
pay the same monthly premium, I dont think it would have been reasonable for him to 
believe such  changes would be made.
Coventry BS has provided a copy of the 2004 mortgage offer and this shows  it wasnt  a 
condition of the loan that Mr P had life and/or  critical  illness cover.  Further,  there was no 
specific requirement for it to recommend he had it. Coventry  BS has provided  evidence, 
including a personalised quotation, suggesting  a new MLI policy for the full mortgage amount  
was discussed.  But it appears no application  was made and the policy didnt go ahead.
While Mr P didnt  do anything  to alter his life and critical illness insurance arrangements  in 
2004, he did take the MPPI policy. Its possible he misunderstood what this was for and this 
is what hes referring to when he says he thought his cover  had been increased and that he 
didnt need a new MLI policy. But the MPPI provided  a different type of cover and Ive seen  
no evidence to show Coventry BS did or said anything  that could have misled him about 
what it was for and how it worked.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think the evidence shows  Coventry  BS did something  
wrong in 2004.  Or that anything  it did should have led Mr P to believe he had critical illness 
cover for the full amount  of his mortgage.
Coventry BS and Aviva have provided  evidence showing a new MLI policy  was discussed 
with Mr P in 2006 and an application was made to cover the amount outstanding on the 
mortgage (around £95,000) for the remaining term. And that this didnt ultimately  go ahead 
because he didnt provide further  information about his health when asked. Because  he 
didnt pay any premiums  or receive any policy documentation,  I dont  think  there was any 
reason Mr P should  have believed cover was put in place at that time.
The advisers notes  from 2006 record Mr P was aware he didnt have life and critical illness 
cover for the full amount  of his mortgage  and that this was a concern  to him. I cant  be sure 
exactly what was discussed  but, if the notes are correct, they dont support any suggestion 
made now that he thought his need  for additional  cover had been fully addressed  in 2004.
The new MLI policies  discussed in 2004 and 2006 only included life cover and not critical 
illness cover  and Im satisfied the personalised illustrations were clear  about that. The 
documentation from the time says Mr P wasnt eligible for further critical illness  cover  with 
Aviva, although the precise reason for that isnt recorded. Whatever the reason was, I dont 
think the fact he wasnt  quoted for critical illness cover is particularly relevant to the outcome 
of this complaint  as he didnt proceed with either  policy  anyway. 
The inclusion  of critical illness cover would  have significantly increased the cost of the policy 
being offered  and its not clear Mr P would have been willing to pay that when he didnt go 
ahead with the cheaper option with life cover  only. If the omission of critical illness cover 
from the proposed  Aviva  policies was a concern at the time,  he could have approached other 
insurers or a broker who might have been  able to help.
Ref: DRN71412463I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr P and isnt what  he was 
hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  the evidence  shows  
Coventry BS failed to act appropriately when arranging his mortgage in 2004 or that it did 
anything that should have  led him to believe he had more critical illness cover than he did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7141246