K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent him money  he couldnt afford 
to repay.  He wants a refund of interest  and charges applied to the loan.
background
Mr B took out a payday loan with Mr Lender in April 2011. The loan was for £300 repayable 
in one instalment  of £390. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. He didnt think  Mr Lenders 
checks were sufficient  as the repayment represented a relatively significant proportion  of Mr 
Bs stated  net monthly income of £2,750.
The adjudicator thought  Mr Lender  shouldve asked Mr B about his income and expenses, 
including any regular  financial commitments. The adjudicator thought  that if Mr Lender had 
done this, it wouldve realised the loan wasnt affordable.
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund interest and charges and pay interest on the 
refund. He also recommended that Mr Lender remove  any negative  information about the 
loan from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with this recommendation. It says its checks  were proportionate. Mr 
Lender says the credit  check didnt show anything of concern. It points out that Mr B was 
aware of the total cost of the loan and at no point during the application process did he make 
Mr Lender aware that he was struggling  financially. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Mr B could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. These checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr B for details of his income before it agreed  the loan. Mr B said 
his monthly net income was £2,750. It also carried out a credit check. This was Mr Bs first 
loan with Mr Lender  and it says there wasnt anything of concern in the credit check.
Ive thought about whether Mr Lenders checks were proportionate. Mr B hadnt borrowed 
from Mr Lender  before, so there wasnt any lending history to consider. But the repayment  
on the loan accounted for a significant  proportion of Mr Bs declared  monthly  income. I think 
adequate checks  shouldve included asking Mr B about his living  costs  and regular financial 
commitments to make sure he had enough  money left to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way.
 
Although I dont consider Mr Lender  carried out proportionate checks, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that I must uphold Mr Bs complaint. I would need to be persuaded that 
with proportionate checks, Mr Lender wouldve discovered that Mr B couldnt afford the loan. 
Ref: DRN77178382Mr B has given  this service details of his outgoings  at the time of the loan. Ive also had a 
look at some of Mr Bs bank statements. It seems  as though Mr B had regular monthly 
outgoings of about £2441. I think if Mr Lender  had asked Mr B about these expenses, it 
wouldve discovered he couldnt afford  to repay  the loan from his normal  income. As a 
responsible lender, I dont think Mr Lender wouldve agreed to lend.  
Mr B has lost out as a result so Mr Lender  should pay him compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, PDL Finance Limited trading 
as Mr Lender should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr B paid on the loan; 
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7717838