K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy  was taken out 
when Mrs P was applying for a mortgage.  The policy provided  Mrs P with cover for accident,  
sickness and unemployment for up to two years. It cost just under £14 a month.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.  
 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs P suggests she wasnt given a choice about  taking out the PPI if she wanted the 
mortgage. I cant be sure what was discussed between her and the bank, but I see the 
mortgage application she completed suggested  she should consider PPI  but that in the 
meantime her mortgage application  would  be processed so an offer could be made.  The 
offer she did get didnt  mention PPI. I cant see that Mrs P was told she had to have the PPI 
in order to get the mortgage. 
Overall, despite what Mrs P remembers, I think the bank  made  her aware  that PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it out.
The bank has accepted that it advised  Mrs P to take out the policy  and it doesnt  look like it 
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Mrs P was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-Mrs P says she would  have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work due 
to a sickness or accident. But the policy would have  paid out in addition  to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for considerably  longer.  Having  the 
policy in place would mean Mrs P could use her work-related benefits and savings to pay 
for other  expenses. This would  probably have  been all the more important when the 
policy was sold given  that Mrs P was solely  responsible  for repaying the mortgage and 
she had children. Mrs P has told us about other types of insurance she held at the time.  
Ref: DRN72263382But those  policies were  designed to pay out if Mrs P became critically ill or died. The PPI 
covered different circumstances, so didnt duplicate  what she already had. I think Mrs P 
would have had some use for the policy despite her existing arrangements. I note Mrs P 
successfully claimed under the policy more than once.
-Mrs P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits. As she 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mrs P needed 
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
-I dont know exactly when Halifax explained how much the PPI would cost. Its likely this 
was in either a phone call or the meeting she recalls. But I think  Mrs P would know it cost 
something, and the approximate monthly benefit  that would be paid if a successful claim 
was made. Mrs P says she was struggling  financially  at the time to meet general living  
costs. But she hasnt  told us she talked to Halifax about  this at the time or asked  it to 
help reduce her outgoings. Shes  also told us she had at least six months savings (that 
would be about £6,000), some of which she could have  used to pay the relatively small 
premiums if shed  wanted to do that. 
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said Mrs P wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable, I think it unlikely Mrs P would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would  still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7226338