K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  on a credit card account 
taken out in 1995. Miss G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI probably  started  at the same time as Miss G took her credit card in 1995. Given  
how long ago that was, I dont find it surprising  that Lloyds no longer has a copy  of Miss Gs 
credit agreement or anything else she signed  at the time to agree to the PPI. So this doesnt 
make me think that Miss G didnt sign something to agree to the credit card  and it doesnt 
make me think that Lloyds  added PPI to the card without getting Miss Gs agreement.
Miss G strongly believes she wouldnt have agreed to PPI. By way of example, shes told us 
of an occasion  she recalls when she turned down insurance in a shop. She says her parents 
wouldve helped her if need be, so she didnt need PPI and wouldnt have agreed to it. From  
what shes told us, she has no recollection  of taking or having or being sold the PPI. Miss G 
thinks Lloyds added  the PPI to her account without  telling  her and without her permission.
I dont doubt Miss G has given us her honest  beliefs,  based on her best recollections. But its 
over twenty  years since Miss G took the credit card. And buying card insurance  is often  not 
very memorable. With all that in mind - and without something more - the fact Miss G doesnt 
recall agreeing to the PPI, and believes she wouldnt have agreed to it, isnt enough to make 
me think Lloyds likely added PPI and charged  for it without asking or getting her permission.
There isnt anything else to make me think Lloyds added  the PPI without  Miss G knowing or 
agreeing. So taking into account everything I have, there isnt enough to make me think that 
Lloyds added the cover  without  asking  Miss G and getting her consent.  But I acknowledge 
Miss G doesnt believe that this is what happened.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss G it had to do more  and check  the PPI was right for 
her. And Lloyds  thinks it might have recommended the PPI. So I think  its fair to assess the 
complaint on that basis  which places on Lloyds more responsibility  for the sale.  And based 
on what Ive seen of Miss Gs circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was right for her.
For example, Miss G wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. For 
instance, she didnt  suffer from any existing health issues,  so wouldnt have been affected by 
any policy exclusions for existing health  problems. Also Miss G appears  to have had a need 
for the cover. 
I say this taking into account  that, from what shes told us, Miss G wasnt entitled  to much 
sick pay or redundancy pay from her employer. And for a successful unemployment  or 
disability claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to twelve  months - on top of any work pay 
Miss G received. Miss G did have savings but, from what shes told us, I dont  think those 
Ref: DRN78224952wouldve made up for her loss of income for long. In any case, the savings were for holidays 
or a deposit  for a home. So by helping with her card payments, the PPI wouldve helped 
protect those savings if Miss G lost her job or was too sick to work. Miss G says her parents 
couldve helped her instead. And Ive no reason to doubt that this is what wouldve been 
intended. But other peoples circumstances and ability to help can change.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, it seems likely  the cover wouldve  been useful for 
her if something went wrong. And I havent  seen enough to make me think  she didnt choose 
to take it - so I cant say I think she didnt want this type of cover. Also it doesnt look like 
more information  about the policy terms or exclusions wouldve affected  Miss Gs view of the 
cover, as those didnt  affect her. Taking  everything into account,  I dont think better 
information about the PPI wouldve altered  Miss Gs attitude towards taking  the cover.
Im grateful  to Miss G for the prompt and detailed responses shes given  us throughout. Ive 
thought about all her points  - including what shes said about living with her parents at the 
time and not having outgoings. But, in the light of all Ive said above  already, these points 
dont change my decision.  I appreciate my conclusion will disappoint Miss G.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822495