K822xcomplaint
B Ltd complains that Charter Court Financial  Services Limited  trading  as Precise  Mortgages  
acted unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with its buy to let mortgage application. 
It wants a refund of the assessment and valuation fee and a goodwill gesture.
background 
B Ltd applied for a buy to let mortgage  from Precise Mortgages through a broker in October 
2018. The application was unsuccessful as Precise Mortgages said B Ltd hadnt owned  the 
property for at least six months  at the time;  B Ltd provided evidence to the contrary but 
waited. In January  2019, B Ltd re-applied and paid a valuation  fee of £435. B Ltd felt that the 
valuation was not fit for purpose due to errors  and disagreed with the £100,000 valuation  
given twice by the valuers. Another  valuer working for another lender valued  the property as 
being worth  £125,000 later, and an earlier valuer had said the property was worth  £120,000. 
The application to Precise Mortgages  didnt complete.
B Ltd complained to Precise Mortgages.  It said it relied upon the information recorded by the 
Land Registry when it said that the property had been  owned for less than six months in 
October 2018. Precise Mortgage  accepted  that this meant it was using  dates different to the 
actual transaction  dates,  but said it was entitled to use Land Registry  registration dates and 
hadnt been incorrect to refuse to allow the first application to proceed.  In relation to the 
valuation, Precise Mortgages said it relied  on the professional advice it received, including  
regarding the appeal, which was fair and reasonable.
B Ltd complained to us. The investigator noted  that the dates used to record transactions  by 
the Land Registry  are later than the actual transaction date (as the Land Registry is informed 
later). The investigator  noted that as the property was leasehold, it wouldve been  easy  to 
check the older title and see that the lease had been renewed after purchase,  which led to 
the new Land Registry  entry. And as B Ltd had provided evidence  of the actual purchase 
date, the investigator  said Precise Mortgages had been unfair and unreasonable  in rejecting 
the application on this basis. He said it should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  by this.
But the investigator said that in relation to the valuation, the professional valuer was 
independent of Precise Mortgages and suitably qualified. The appeal was considered and 
the valuer asked  to comment further. The investigator said Precise Mortgage wasnt  at fault 
and was able to rely on professional advice  that it received. He also said that the valuation  
fee didnt need to be refunded as it was set out in writing that it was non-refundable in the 
terms and conditions accepted by B Ltd, and the valuation had been carried  out.
B Ltd disagreed. It said that as the valuation wasnt fit for purpose,  it should  be refunded the 
cost. B Ltd said that the rejection of the first application should be linked to the mortgage it 
ultimately took out in 2019. The investigator  said that the rejection of the first application  
didnt lead to the mortgage being  taken out with another lender as B Ltd made another  
application to Precise Mortgages (which didnt  proceed due to the valuation).  B Ltd wanted 
Precise Mortgages to be punished, but the investigator explained that this wasnt  the role of 
this service. Precise Mortgages accepted the investigators view and felt that it shouldve  
looked into the first application further before declining it. The professional body  regulating 
valuers refused  to deal with B Ltds complaint against the valuer as Precise  Mortgages was 
the client.
Ref: DRN77505202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing with the refusal to allow  the application  to proceed in 2018  first, I think 
Precise Mortgages didnt  act fairly or reasonably; it agrees that it didnt do enough to 
establish the individual facts in B Ltds case.  I note that Precise  Mortgages own policy  
doesnt refer to Land Registry registration dates,  but to the actual  purchase  or remortgage 
date. B Ltd provided evidence that the original purchase date was six months before the 
application, and couldve provided more evidence if asked.  The Land Registry  entries  also 
told interested parties to look at the connected  title and showed the purchase date.
While lenders are able to use their commercial judgement and set their own lending policies 
(and there are good reasons behind the six month  rule), they must apply those policies fairly 
and reasonably. In B Ltds case,  Precise Mortgages didnt act fairly  or reasonably  as it 
overlooked both the wording of its policy and the evidence provided and available.  
But I dont think this failing caused  any financial loss. This is because its more likely  than not 
that the issue with the valuation wouldve happened in the first application, and the parties 
werent able to work together  to proceed with an application. B Ltd chose to go elsewhere. 
So I think only compensation for trouble  and upset is fair and reasonable. B Ltd is a limited 
company so cant feel upset. I accept  its directors were put to inconvenience and waited until 
the application could be made again. This is minor  and I think  £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the failure to allow the first application to proceed is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Turning to the valuation, I dont think Precise Mortgages is at fault. Lenders are able to rely 
on professional  advice from suitably qualified professionals; the valuer  in this case  was 
suitably qualified. Precise Mortgages put the points made in dispute by B Ltd to the valuer 
promptly. I note B Ltd talks about some  lenders  being responsible  for the actions of the 
valuer; that does happen, for example when the valuer isnt independent of the lender. This 
isnt the case  here  the valuer is independent of Precise Mortgages. I understand that B Ltd 
was unhappy  about the valuation and the quality of the work done,  but it isnt fair or 
reasonable to require  lenders to become  judges of professional advisers; its fair and 
reasonable for the lender to accept  the professional advice received,  particularly  after 
completion of an appeal process.
B Ltd wants  the valuation fee refunded. But the terms and conditions of the mortgage are 
clear that the fees arent refundable and B Ltd signed to accept these.  It was also advised  by 
a broker, who shouldve  explained this. B Ltd says that it believed the valuation  fee would be 
refunded after completion of the mortgage,  but as the mortgage didnt complete, this isnt 
relevant.
Ref: DRN77505203my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Charter Court Financial Services  Limited 
trading as Precise Mortgages should  pay B Ltd £100 compensation. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask B Ltd to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 October  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7750520