K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited,  trading as Free2Move Lease (Free2Move)  
have overcharged  him for excess mileage at the end of his hire agreement.
 
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in September 2016.  He financed the deal through a two year 
hire agreement with Free2Move. Under the terms of the agreement mileage above 5,000  per 
year was to be paid at 7p per mile plus VAT.
At the end of the agreement Mr M was charged  for 1,046 extra  miles but he complained  to 
free2Move. He said 200 of these miles were incurred when the car was delivered to him so 
they shouldnt  be charged.
Free2Move didnt agree. They said Mr M had the option to either collect the vehicle or have 
it delivered and as hed chosen  the latter they thought it fair to charge him for delivery miles.
But Mr M was dissatisfied  with Free2Moves response and he therefore referred his 
complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He noted  that there was 
no reference in the terms and conditions  of the finance agreement to Mr M being responsible 
for delivery  miles  and he thought it reasonable for a new car to usually be delivered on a 
transporter rather than being  driven.  So he thought it would be fair for Free2Move to 
recalculate the excess mileage charge without the 200 delivery miles.
But Free2Move disagreed  and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms of Mr Ms finance agreement dont include a clause that holds him accountable for 
the delivery mileage  so I think it would be unfair  to subsequently suggest hes responsible  for 
them.
I dont think its fair to say Mr M would necessarily have been  responsible  for collecting the 
vehicle if it were not driven  to him, as I accept Mr Ms suggestion that it would seem  more 
likely the vehicle would have been delivered on a transporter and therefore not have incurred 
any mileage.
Ref: DRN78754202my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell PSA Finance  UK Limited to recalculate the excess  mileage 
due on this agreement  after they have deducted the delivery mileage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7875420