K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain  that UK Insurance  Limited (UKI) refused a claim on their travel 
insurance policy. They are also unhappy with the service they received from UKI.
background
I issued  a provisional  decision in this case in February 2020.  That provisional  decision is set 
out below  and forms part of my final decision. 
Both parties  have confirmed theyve received my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs R have replied and have confirmed theyve nothing  further to add. UKI have 
replied with a number of points,  responses to which I will deal with in my findings below.
provisional decision
Mr and Mrs R booked a holiday on 19 September 2018. They made some minor  
amendments and paid a deposit on 8 October  2018. The full amount was due at the end of 
January 2019  and they were due to travel on 22 March 2019.
On 1 January  2019, Mrs R found  out that she was pregnant. And at this point Mr and Mrs R 
realised that the Zika virus was present in one of the countries they were planning to visit. 
They contacted their travel agent and the travel company regarding changing and amending 
the trip but unfortunately this was not an option  due to how the trip was planned and booked.  
So they then contacted UKI who initially advised that the claim wouldnt be covered. But after 
some further discussion, UKI advised Mr R that he would need to submit  a medical 
certificate from a medical professional  if they wanted to cancel. So they went to see their 
consultant, who said the trip couldnt be completed due to the potential risk of exposure  to 
zika virus  during travel.
After many discussions with UKI, Mr R cancelled the trip and they made a claim under their 
annual travel insurance policy. After considering the claim,  UKI told Mr and Mrs R that the 
claim would be covered. But UKI then reviewed the claim again and advised that this 
scenario wasnt actually  covered by the policy and it declined the claim. Mr and Mrs R 
complained, but UKI didnt change its view.  It said, from an insurance perspective your set 
of circumstances  are simply not covered by the existing contract.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. He thought it should be
upheld. He said that being  led through an unnecessary claims validation  process was 
enough to prejudice  and influence Mr and Mrs Rs decision to cancel their holiday and he 
asked UKI to pay the claim. 
But UKI disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. It said that Mr and Mrs R had 
already made up their mind to cancel the trip based on both the medical  and Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office  (FCO) advice received. UKI maintained  that the claim had been 
correctly declined.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN77409392Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. And having done  so I plan to uphold the 
complaint and Ill explain why.
the pregnancy
There has been  some confusion about  Mrs Rs pregnancy throughout this claim. This 
confusion hasnt been helped  as there was incorrect information provided by both parties. Mr 
R wasnt very clear on dates and UKI made assumptions that just werent  factually correct. 
Mr R originally said that they first attended  the fertility clinic  in January 2018. And this piece 
of information was enough  for UKI to state  quite firmly in the first call that the claim wouldnt 
be covered.  But this was clarified  in the next call. The first visit to the fertility clinic was after 
the holiday was booked, but just before the deposit was paid. This has now all been 
supported by correspondence from the clinic. Mr R has also explained that hed gotten quite 
flustered during the first call and wasnt clear  on his dates. He wasnt  aware of how important 
these dates would turn out to be.
Weve also received a medical report for Mr and Mrs R from the clinic. This report deals with 
tests that were carried out on 10 October  2018, and there is no mention of any previous  visit. 
In fact the letter dated 3 October inviting Mr and Mrs R to the appointment thanks them for 
their recent request for an appointment, which would suggest  that this was to be their first 
appointment. 
I know that IVF treatment  was discussed in the calls between  Mr R and UKI at a later date.  
But it was UKI that introduced  the assumption  that Mrs R had undergone IVF treatment, not 
Mr R. And the medical report doesnt mention IVF treatment. The consultant was considering 
a fertility drug treatment on 10 October  2018, but later correspondence in November would 
suggest that this didnt work. A later report would show that the fertility drug treatment that 
assisted the pregnancy started on 7 December  2018. 
Based on this Im satisfied about  a number of things.  Mr and Mrs R were  trying to conceive 
before the trip was booked. But this isnt unusual and we wouldnt expect people to put their 
lives on hold to satisfy  a term in an insurance  policy.  Im also satisfied that they talked about 
seeking treatment and on 3 October  they were invited to see a consultant.  They  paid the 
final part of their deposit on 8 October, two days before they visited  the consultant.  So even 
if they were hoping to get pregnant, the correspondence from the clinic shows that Mrs R 
didnt start the correct  treatment until December 2018, which was nearly two months  after 
they had paid the deposit. 
what the policy covers
The policy covers Mr and Mrs R for cancellation  costs in certain circumstances. But UKI 
says there  is no cover  in place on the policy for this situation. 
And strictly speaking I agree. Getting pregnant and not wishing to travel  is not something 
thats covered  under  the heading  Cancelling  Your Trip (before you are due to start your 
trip). So, Mrs Rs claim isnt covered under the strict interpretation of the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
But, I need  to think about what it says elsewhere in the policy,  and whether I think its fair 
and reasonable for UKI to apply the strict  policy terms and conditions  to the circumstances of 
Ref: DRN77409393Mr and Mrs Rs claim. I also need  to think about  what UKI have told us. And UKI has advised 
that there was cover in place in certain circumstances  for what  it describes as moderate to 
high risk of Zika.
The policy  says: we will not cover any claim arising  from you travelling to a country  or area 
where the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office  (FCO)  or the World  
Health Organisation (WHO) has advised  against all travel before you departed  on your trip. 
And if you look at the FCO website travel associated risks of Zika have been  classified into 
two categories based on the current and potential epidemiological  situation in order to 
ensure that travel advice is appropriate and proportionate. The two levels of risk for Zika are, 
very low risk and risk.  
Risk
Pregnant women  should consider avoiding travel to this country  until after the pregnancy. In 
the event that travel is unavoidable, the pregnant traveller must be informed of the risks 
which ZIKV presents.
Very Low Risk
Pregnant women should seek medical  advice if they develop  ZIKV symptoms or are 
concerned.
The FCO website has a specific section  for Zika, and how it affects  pregnancy  and travel.  It 
says Travellers to countries or areas with risk for Zika virus transmission should ideally seek 
travel health advice from their GP, practice nurse or a travel  clinic at least 4 to 6 weeks 
before they travel.  The paragraph on the website for Zika is the same  no matter  which  
category of risk its listed  under. Zika virus (ZIKV) is a viral infection transmitted by 
mosquitoes and is a cause of Congenital Zika Syndrome (microcephaly  and other congenital 
anomalies) and neurological  complications such as Guillain-Barr syndrome. 
So Im not sure the categories that UKI are using  are up to date or in line with the FCO  
website. I dont think  theres a moderate or high risk. If the country is listed theres a risk, 
and the FCO website says if theres  a risk you should  seek medical advice. So, Im satisfied 
that Mrs R was right to be concerned. And after reviewing the situation she sought medical  
advice. This was discussed on numerous  occasions during the telephone calls between Mr 
R and UKI who was also clearly quite  concerned  about travelling.
As Ive explained above Mrs R wasnt pregnant  at the point of booking the trip. So, the fact 
that Zika virus was present in a country  they were travelling to wasnt something that 
wouldve been on their radar.  It was only after Mrs R got pregnant some  months  later that 
they realised there was an issue and they sought  medical advice. 
So Mrs R sought advice from her consultant. The consultant said that they couldnt complete 
their trip due to potential  risk of exposure to the zika virus. The consultant  also pointed to the 
FCO government website which stated that zika virus was a low risk. But whether its 
deemed low risk or risk doesnt  matter here. The consultant  said they couldnt go because  
of the potential risk. The medical advice was not to travel. So, from Mr and Mrs Rs point  of 
view, cancellation was necessary and unavoidable. And in these circumstances, it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs R to continue with their trip, against clear medical 
advice. So, I think it would  be fair for this claim to be paid.
Ref: DRN77409394Further to this if we go back to the policy again it says we will not cover  any claim for a 
medical condition  if you were travelling  against  the advice of a doctor, or would have been  
travelling against  the advice  of a doctor if you had sought such advice
So if Mr and Mrs Rs did go on this trip its clear  that they would  have  been travelling against 
medical advice.  It follows that they wouldnt have been covered under  the policy if Mrs R had 
contracted Zika on the trip.
So it seems  to me that UKI have  put Mr and Mrs R in a position, where their choices were
to cancel the holiday without getting their money back   or go ahead against medical advice
without any cover for the Zika risk. I dont think this is a fair.
Taking everything  Ive said above into account, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and 
Mrs R to continue  with their trip, against clear medical advice. So, I think  they had no choice 
but to cancel and I think  UKI should pay this claim subject  to any excess and policy  limits.
It follows that Mr and Mrs R have been  deprived of the use of the settlement  money  since
they made their claim. So interest should  be added to this amount from the date of claim as
compensation for this.
customer service  provided
Mr and Mrs R also complain about the service  theyve received from UKI. I think  from the 
beginning this was a difficult case.  Mr R just wanted his claim paid. And he continually  
phoned for updates and looked for reassurance from UKI. I felt from the calls that instead  of 
being very clear with Mr R, about the process  and the complexity  of the case itself UKI 
probably wasnt  as transparent as it shouldve been. After  the trip was cancelled  and the 
claim was processed UKI did lead Mr R to believe there wasnt  going to be an issue and hed 
receive his deposit  back. 
But I also think  that Mr R put UKI under  a lot of pressure, and sometimes consumers just 
need to step back and let the process  happen. Mr R didnt give clear answers to some  very 
important questions, which then led to issues down the line. The call that Mr R was most 
upset about was the final response call on 15 March 2019. This was a long and emotional 
call, and I dont feel either party came away from this call positively.  But I cant say that 
anything happened in this call that would lead me to recommend compensation. I think in 
particular the background laughing  noise  at the most inopportune  moment  was unfortunate, 
but had nothing to do with the call. So even though it got heated and some angry words  
were spoken, I cant say that this was down to anything UKI did in this call. It was always  
going to be a difficult call given its very nature  of the news being delivered.
I think overall the service provided couldve been  better. But I also think UKI were under a lot 
of pressure from Mr R and it was made  more difficult when it developed  into a conflict 
situation. On balance I think  UKI did as much as it could and Im not minded to award  any 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN77409395Ive considered very carefully the points UKI made in response to my provisional decision. 
But Im not persuaded though that I should  change my mind. 
UKI say that it shouldnt be held responsible for Mr and Mrs R cancelling  the holiday 
and that Mr R knew from the date he first called  that he would need  to cancel their 
trip as he was unable  to amend  this with the travel provider. 
UKI also say that Mr R knew that he would not be able to go on his trip if his wife 
became pregnant which was always a possibility from when they began the 
treatment.
UKI say that even  though Mr and Mrs R didnt  go through  IVF treatment they did go 
through treatment to help to get pregnant knowing that they already had a holiday 
booked (and to a destination with a low risk of zika virus).
UKI also point out that Mr and Mrs R were actively trying to conceive  knowing that it 
would then lead to the cancellation of their trip. UKI says this would fall into the 
category of an anticipated  event and not a cancellation on medical  grounds as 
pregnancy itself is not an illness.  
UKI say the risk and very low risk factor is key in this as one is advising against 
travel and the other  is advising to seek medical advice  if they develop ZIKV 
symptoms. UKI says it would  only look to consider a claim if the FCO is advising 
against travel to a specific area,  and it argues  that this was not the case for the 
countries of travel the customer  was going to and so isnt an argument that can be 
used in this case  to support them not travelling.
And finally, UKI says there is no cover for the reasons  theyve cancelled  their trip. It 
says this specific policy doesnt cover cancellation where advice is given to the 
customer by his/her  medical  consultant not to travel.  
I agree on the first point. Im dont think UKI is responsible for the holiday cancellation. Mr R 
knew, given  the nature  of the booking  that he wouldnt be able to amend the trip and thats 
been confirmed by the travel agent.  But Mr R has never denied this, and this shouldnt affect 
him being able to make a claim.  He bought insurance for peace of mind if he needed  to 
cancel. The criteria  for cancellation in this case isnt determined  by the type of booking 
made. 
And I agree that Mrs R becoming pregnant was always a possibility from when they began 
the treatment. But Mr and Mrs R only became aware  of an available fertility consultation on 3 
October 2018. And the fertility treatment didnt  begin until after the first consultation which 
was dated 10 October  2018. 
As we know the trip was planned fully in September 2018 and the deposit was paid on 8 
October 2018. Mr and Mrs R had no idea at this stage what  lay ahead. They  hadnt had a 
consultation yet, and they didnt know whether they were suitable  for treatment or what  
treatment was available.  When they planned  this trip the fertility consultation hadnt  even 
been made  available  to them, and even when they paid their deposit, they had yet to attend 
the clinic. Mr R is quite clear in the telephone calls. They  had been trying to conceive for 
some time, and they were having difficulty conceiving.  So, I would say their expectation of 
getting pregnant  at the time of booking was very low. 
And yes, Mr and Mrs R did enter into treatment after the deposit  was paid. But we wouldnt 
expect people to put their lives on hold because of the terms and conditions  of an insurance 
policy. Im satisfied that at the time of booking this trip, there  was no obvious  reason why Mr 
and Mrs R shouldnt have  been able to travel  on the planned date.  It was only after Mr and 
Ref: DRN77409396Mrs R paid the deposit that they were told they were suitable candidates for fertility 
treatment, and treatment  started. 
And this leads us on to whether this is an anticipated event. Ive dealt  with this in my 
provisional decision but Im happy  to set it out here again. I agree that the claim isnt covered 
under the strict interpretation of the terms and conditions of the policy. But I need to think  
about what it says elsewhere  in the policy, and whether I think  its fair and reasonable for 
UKI to apply the strict  policy terms and conditions  to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim.
I dont agree  that when Mr and Mrs R were  booking their holiday that this was an anticipated  
event. They had been trying  unsuccessfully to conceive for some time. They had a date for a 
consultation from a fertility clinic. This consultation was only confirmed after the holiday 
plans were finalised, and the consultation  itself took place after the deposit was paid in 
October. 
We know that the first treatment wasnt successful, and that an alternative treatment was 
recommended. Ive said before that we wouldnt expect  consumers to put their lives on hold 
to satisfy  the terms of an insurance  policy. And I think given the difficulties Mr and Mrs R 
were experiencing, the pregnancy was far from anticipated, particularly given that the first 
course of treatment  was unsuccessful.  This shows there was no guarantee that fertility 
treatment was going to work. I think if the pregnancy had happened  naturally UKI would be 
treating this claim differently. So, I cant see how using a fertility treatment makes this any 
different or makes it an anticipated event.
In terms of what  it says on the FCO website about  risk and very low risk Ive already set 
my thoughts out on this in my Provisional Decision which  is set out above. But Ill reiterate 
them again  here.  
The FCO website  says Very Low Risk: Pregnant women should seek  medical  advice if they 
develop ZIKV symptoms  or are concerned. For some reason UKI seems  to have discarded 
the second part of this sentence and interpreted the first part of the warning to suit its own 
argument. UKI is using the FCO warning to limit its liability and I dont think thats correct. If 
UKI wishes to limit its liability to those travelling  to risk  areas only,  then this shouldve been 
set out in the policy documents. 
As it stands Mrs R was pregnant and travelling  to a very low risk country.  She was 
concerned so she asked  her consultant  for advice. The advice she received was that the trip 
couldnt be completed due to potential risk of exposure to the zika virus. So, she decided to 
cancel. She complied  with the advice detailed on the FCO  website as set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. So, I cant see what more  she couldve done.  
But UKI say theres no cover, and that this specific policy doesnt cover cancellation  where 
advice is given to the customer by his/her  medical consultant not to travel . And I can see 
from the policy terms and conditions that medical  advice isnt specifically listed  under the 
heading what is covered. But again, UKI is singling out specific terms to suit its argument 
and not looking at the policy as a whole. So, whereas UKI dont  cover cancellation due to 
medical advice in this particular set of terms and conditions, there is a term later in the policy 
that says No cover  is provided if you travel  against the advice of a doctor, or would have 
been travelling  against the advice of a doctor  if you had sought  such advice.
Ref: DRN77409397So, the policy excludes cover if a medical  expert  says you cant  travel,  but if Mr and Mrs R 
did go on this trip its clear that they would have  been travelling against medical  advice, and 
as such they wouldnt have been  covered under  the policy  if Mrs R had contracted  Zika on 
the trip. 
So, as I set out in my provisional decision,  it seems  to me that UKI have  put Mr and Mrs R in 
a position where their choices were to cancel  the holiday without getting their money back   
or go ahead against medical advice without  any cover for the Zika risk. And I dont  think this 
is fair.
Taking everything  Ive said above into account, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and 
Mrs R to continue  with their trip, against clear medical advice. So, I think  they had no choice 
but to cancel  and I think UKI should pay this claim subject to any excess and policy limits as 
I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that Mr and Mrs R have been  deprived of the use of the settlement  money  since
they made their claim. So, interest should  be added to this amount from the date of claim as
compensation for this.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint 
I require UK Insurance Limited to:
pay this claim  subject to any excess and policy  limits.  It must add interest* to the 
payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
*If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs R a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7740939