complaint
Ms B and Mr R have complained about  National House-Building Council (NHBC). It 
provides their building  warranty  for the flat they own and has handled a number of claims 
for them since December  2014.
background
Ms B and Mr R bought  a flat in 2014  and immediately noticed  issues  with it. They contacted 
the developer  straight away and first began dealing with NHBC in respect of their concerns 
about the property in December 2014.
By 2018 some issues had progressed and/or been resolved but not without hassle. Some  
issues were still being  resolved  and regarding one issue neither the developer  nor NHBC 
had agreed to do anything. Ms B and Mr R were also unhappy as they thought  NHBCs 
involvement in the development  process for the flat meant it was responsible for everything 
theyd been through in respect  of the condition  of the property since theyd bought  it.
In 2018 NHBC issued three final responses to Ms B and Mr R in respect of complaints 
theyd made.  NHBC accepted that it had caused delays but argued the claim had been 
complex. It said it would  pay a total of £950  compensation to make up for the upset its 
avoidable delays  had caused.
Ms B and Mr R complained to this service  and their complaint  came  to me for 
consideration. I noted that some of the concerns Ms B and Mr R had likely related to things 
we couldnt consider against NHBC (because we can only consider complaints about 
regulated activities). I issued findings letting both parties know what  I can and cant  
consider. In short, I said I can look at:
The bathroom ceiling  it needed redecorating but then collapsed, Ms B and Mr R had it 
fixed and the builder  reimbursed their costs.  Ill be considering  what happened  between 
13 July 2015 and 1 August 2015.
Window repair  NHBC told the builder to complete  a repair  to ensure the window 
sashes and frames  met when closed but the issue wasnt resolved within  the deadline 
NHBC had given  for the work  to be done.  Ill be considering  what  happened from 
1 August 2015  until the window issue was resolved.
Damp and Mould  the developer and NHBC both said this wasnt  due to a defect. 
NHBC only took over liability from the builder  in March  2016.  Ill be considering what 
NHBC said and did on this issue from the point it took over liability in March 2016  and 
until it gave its final response  on this issue on 21 June  2018.
Noise/vibrations  Ms B and Mr Rs home suffered from noise and vibrations  from the flat 
above. This has been Ms B and Mr Rs biggest  concern  and has caused  them  a lot of 
distress. Ill be considering what happened from March 2016 until 5 October 2018.
And I went on to issue some provisional findings  on those issues.  Overall  I felt NHBC had 
failed Ms B and Mr R and said it should pay them a total of £2,000  compensation  but if 
NHBC had already paid the £950 previously  offered,  only £1,050 would now have to be 
paid. NHBC said it agreed with my findings, and it hadnt previously paid the £950, so it 
would pay £2,000. Ms B and Mr R were satisfied Id considered everything but said they 
were unsure  how Id come to the figure  of £2,000 being sufficient for four years  of upset. 
They said recent repairs hadnt really worked  and there was still damp  and mould. 
Ref: DRN7864092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below,  Ive added interjections  where  Ms B and Mr R 
have commented  and included my responses  on those issues:
bathroom ceiling
There had been  a history  of water damage  to the ceiling which the developer  had tried to 
repair. In June 2015 NHBC completed a resolution report  and one of the recommendations 
it made was for the developer to check for leaks and then redecorate. The developer was 
seriously ill and, when, only a couple  of weeks after the report  was made,  the ceiling 
cracked, NHBC decided to take on sourcing  and resolving  the cause of the damage.  NHBC 
decided to do this on 13 July 2015.  Unfortunately overnight 15  16 July the ceiling 
collapsed. NHBC then said Ms B and Mr R had to deal with the developer  to fix the ceiling 
or pay for its repair.
Having seen what occurred, and so quickly, between 13 and 16 July 2015, I dont think  
NHBC could reasonably have done  more. It had a contractor attend at short  notice on the 
morning of 15 July and was considering repair options (because the water damage didnt 
stem from a leaking pipe) when the collapse occurred. Im not sure that doing  any work on 
15 July would have  prevented that collapse  I think the damage had already been done by 
the point the ceiling had cracked, before NHBC took on liability and began carrying out a 
regulated activity. So I cant blame  NHBC for the collapse  itself, or the upset this caused 
Ms B and Mr R.
But Im not persuaded it was reasonable for NHBC to push Ms B and Mr R back to the 
builder to get the damage repaired. It knew his health was extremely  poor and that situation 
hadnt suddenly  resolved  itself in a matter  of days.  It should  have  liaised with the builder to 
get the work  done, and when it became  apparent that wasnt  going to be possible, either 
appoint its own contractor  to do it, or pay Ms B and Mr R. The developer did reimburse  
Ms B and Mr R and they had the ceiling fixed quite quickly   probably in around the same 
time period Id have expected NHBC to have done  the work.  But NHBCs failure to keep 
dealing with this issue did cause them an amount of frustration and inconvenience.  Ill take 
that into account in my compensation  award.
windows
The resolution report from NHBC issued  in June 2015 found gaps in between  the sashes 
and frames, even  when the windows  were closed. NHBC said the developer had to resolve 
this by fitting thicker  seals or by adjusting the sashes and/or frames. On 28 July 2015 the 
developer said hed arrange  for the windows to be replaced as that would be quicker  and 
easier than the recommendations  NHBC had made  (and said had to be completed by
31 July 2015). The developer communicated this to both NHBC and Ms B and Mr R.
But in August 2015 the builder wrote  to NHBC challenging the finding and recommendation 
it had made  regarding the windows. NHBC responded explaining  why, in its view,  it had 
authority to make that finding and recommendation. Further correspondence occurred into 
November 2015.  The builder then replaced  the windows.
Replacing windows is quite disruptive  work, but as I explained in my jurisdiction  findings,
Ref: DRN7864092I cant look at the replacement itself against NHBC.  However, I have looked at what  went on 
following the recommendation deadline  ending on 31 July 2015.
With regret for any disappointment this may cause Ms B and Mr R, I think NHBC handled 
things adequately at this time. It was reasonable for NHBC  to want  the builder to complete 
this work, even though it was now carrying out regulated activity in this respect. And in any 
event, before NHBC could  take it upon itself to do repairs, it needed  to respond to the 
builders objections and set out its position  on the matter clearly  if it hadnt there could 
have been legal implications for it further down  the line. I see it responded to the builder  in a 
timely and appropriate manner.  I cant  reasonably have expected  it to do more  than that.
And its responses did ultimately convince  the builder to resolve the window issue  and he 
chose to do that by replacing the windows  admittedly more  disruptive than the 
recommendations NHBC had made, but arguably  a better outcome. If NHBC had taken 
over the work it would only have completed a repair of the existing windows.
So, in respect  of the windows, I dont think NHBC failed Ms B and Mr R, or did anything to 
cause them distress  and inconvenience beyond that the issue  itself,  and it needing  
resolving, caused  them.  Consequently, I wont be factoring this issue  into my compensation 
award.
damp and mould
NHBC, following  it taking  over full liability from the builder in March  2016, first gave its 
answer on this to Ms B and Mr R in April 2016. NHBCs answer was that it isnt a defect  
its damage caused by condensation,  and the condensation isnt a defect either. Its position 
hasnt changed  since and it issued a final response on it on 21 June 2018.
I know this is an upsetting issue for Ms B and Mr R, and Ive seen the many pictures theyve 
provided of belongings damaged by mould. I also understand  that the pervading smell in 
the flat is difficult to live with too. However, in terms of issues that are originally notified 
within the first two years of cover (as this was), NHBC is only responsible  for defects. And 
the policy defines what is meant by the word  defect. It says:
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone  employed by 
or acting  for the Builder Failure to follow the guidance supporting  an NHBC Requirement 
does not amount to a Defect if the performance required by the NHBC Requirement  is 
achieved by other means.
NHBCs expert view is that the damp and mould  is caused by condensation. There is no 
technical requirement regarding condensation. Whilst its possible  that condensation  might 
be caused by a defect, I havent seen that is the case here. NHBC says its due to the 
amount of ventilation utilised  and possibly things like drying  clothes. I know  Ms B and Mr R 
dispute this  but Ive not seen an expert  report from them on the cause of either 
condensation or damp/mould.
Ref: DRN7864092Further, if condensation, damp  and/or mould  is being caused by a defect, then it is damage 
caused by a defect,  rather  than being  a defect itself.  And the policy  only gives  cover for 
damage caused by defects when that damage  occurs in years  three  to ten of the cover. The 
damp and mould  has been an issue from the outset  so thered be no cover  for it in this 
respect.
Ive seen nothing  to make me think that NHBCs position in this respect  is wrong. Ive also 
not seen anything on NHBCs file that makes me think  its mishandled  this situation during 
the period it was carrying out regulated activity regarding the damp/mould issue. 
Consequently I wont be factoring Ms B and Mr Rs upset over the problems they have in 
this respect with the property which NHBC wont resolve for them, into my compensation 
award.
Ms B and Mr R asked how I could know NHBC assessed this issue properly  it had made  
mistakes in other areas,  such as regarding the noise. They added that they dont dry 
anything inside now and keep the flat ventilated but they are still having issues. 
I understand that this is still a problem for Ms B and Mr R  but their report on how theyre 
using the flat isnt sufficient  for me to think NHBC was wrong about condensation.  Even 
though it has made  other mistakes. For me to say that NHBC has to resolve  a defect (such 
as might be causing the damp/mould issue), I have to be satisfied that there is one, not just 
that there  might be because NHBC might be wrong.
My provisional findings continued:
noise and vibration
I think NHBC failed  Ms B and Mr R in this respect  and that they suffered a lot as a result. 
There was a defect  here,  and as of October 2018  NHBC was acting to resolve it. But it was 
liable for the issue  from March 2016. How noise and vibration affects people is quite a 
personal issue  some  cope alright, others find it very difficult, especially in the long-term  
and at the point NHBC became liable for sorting  this, Ms B and Mr R had been  living  with it 
for two years. Mr R, particularly, was clear with NHBC that he was reaching  a point where  
he could no longer cope. Mr R eventually had to move  out of the property for a time 
(although this only occurred, I understand, after my period of consideration, which ends on 
5 October 2018.)
NHBC should have  started its investigations  in March 2016,  but it didnt. It wasnt until 
September 2017, after Ms B and Mr R got their own sound test that NHBC began to act. A 
whole year and a half of upset which  could  have been avoided.
Even when  NHBC began to act progress was slow with its claim investigations being  full of 
errors. Ive summarised the errors Ive found here (before moving on to comment more 
thoroughly on some  issues):
It initially said Ms B and Mr Rs report was unclear  it wasnt it clearly said failed.
Its investigator caused many delays.
Its investigator said he assessed the property with the neighbour in situ running  the 
washing machine   when challenged on this  without  admitting  he was wrong in what  
hed said  he agreed to undertake another visit.
NHBC failed to foresee  that its initial repair plan might only resolve one cause of sound 
transference.
Ref: DRN7864092When Ms B told it the problem hadnt  been  resolved, it was slow to act and only did so 
when Ms B chased  and challenged it.
There was also an unreasonable delay  in the kitchen ceiling being reinstated  following 
further investigations.
Between January and March 2018  NHBC needed the neighbour to agree to a sound 
test. It wrote to the neighbour but didnt seek to speak to them.
When the neighbour gave dates the investigator  was slow to act and the first date 
passed by.
The sound test was completed 3 May 2018 but NHBC hadnt asked the engineer  to 
provide recommendations for resolving any issues  found. It had to ask for that which  
caused delays  and then challenged the expert  when  its view was given. It was 8 June 
before the matter  moved on, a delay of just over a month.
Ms B and Mr R feel that some initial repairs, carried out October 2017  December 2017 
which necessitated them moving out of their home, were unnecessary,  wasted time and 
caused them  upset.  I dont think this is the case. With issues like sound transference  it is 
often a case of trial and error to resolve  the problem. And there  can be more than one 
cause. This repair, I think, was necessary   as the piping had negated the sound deadening 
design of the ceiling  but because there was also an issue  upstairs causing sound  
transference, fixing  the ceiling alone didnt resolve  the whole issue.
As I noted  in the above bullets  I think NHBC should have been live to the idea that this 
might not solve everything. Particularly as the investigations had highlighted  that the 
property hadnt  been developed in line with approved  plans.
Ms B and Mr R think NHBC failed them by changing  the recommended 4.5mm of sound 
insulation to 3mm. NHBC changed it back afterwards to 4.5mm,  but only after Ms B and 
Mr R challenged it. I dont think NHBC failed Ms B and Mr R in this respect. I know they did 
research which said only 4.5mm would  do  but NHBC  only changed it from 4.5mm to 3mm 
on the receipt of advice  from the sound engineer.  I cant reasonably criticise it for acting on 
the basis of expert advice  received. Yes, fitting  3mm instead of 4.5mm  would  have made a 
cost saving  but it isnt unreasonable for NHBC to have  wanted to mitigate its outlay.
Ms B and Mr R feel NHBC failed them by not taking appropriate action to find alternative 
accommodation for their neighbour  (who  had to move out for NHBC to carry out work to 
resolve the sound issue in Ms B and Mr Rs flat). They say it was also frustrating that NHBC 
wouldnt tell them much about what was happening in this respect.  I understand their 
frustration, but I dont think NHBC failed them in this respect. It had a duty to protect the 
details and communication it was having with the third-party. For similar  reasons  I cant  say 
much here about what Ive seen on NHBCs files about the communication  it had with the 
neighbour. But I can say that I think it did handle things appropriately (my review ends with 
the final response which was issued 5 October  2018).  Ms B and Mr R will hopefully see 
from the rest of my findings  that where Ive found  NHBC has failed them  Ive said so. Whilst 
I know this will be difficult for them, not least because I know  the neighbour has shared their 
view of what was happening  with them, I cant share  any more  detail or comment with them  
about this. All I can do is ask that they trust my judgement in this respect. In my view, prior 
to its final response letter  being issued on 5 October  2018,  NHBC did what it could here to 
move things on towards getting  work  started.
Ref: DRN7864092Ms B and Mr R have also raised  various  concerns about how,  during the development, 
NHBC should have  done more to prevent this problem from ever having occurred. And that 
in its actions during  the claim,  it may have been  seeking to cover  up failures it made  during  
the build. Ive already explained that I cant comment on what  NHBC did during the build  it 
wasnt carrying out regulated activity at that time. I have found NHBC failed Ms B and Mr R 
in many ways during  its handling of this claim  but nothing Ive seen  makes  me think  it was 
trying to cover up anything that had gone before.
In summary  in respect of this section,  I see that NHBC delayed  matters by a year and a half 
between March 2016 and September 2017.  There was then a litany of claim failings 
(bulleted above)  that caused  further delays, inconvenience and frustration. All of this on top 
of the couple having  to live with an on-going, and for Mr R at least,  a particularly 
troublesome noise issue. But for the year and a halfs  delay alone   not even taking  the 
further delays  into account  which would  give an even earlier start date, repair  work should  
reasonably have started in April 2017.
I cant comment on whether those repairs which started in October  2018  were handled 
adequately (because they started after the date of NHBCs  final response)  but I do know,  
regardless of how they were handled they completed before the end of 2019. So I think  its 
fair to say if theyd commenced in April 2017, or earlier, the issue would have been resolved 
before the end of that year.
This is important because as 2018 drew to an end, Ms B and Mr R had to change plans 
theyd had. The on-going, delayed issue impacted their lives beyond  that associated with 
having to live with the unresolved issue  which in itself seems to have been  agony for Mr R 
at least, at times. There is no doubt in my mind that this all had a significant debilitating 
effect on the couple and that significant compensation is required.
Ms B and Mr R said that whilst repairs have now completed, the noise and vibrations 
continue to unacceptable levels.
Im sorry  to hear that the repairs havent provided  the relief that was hoped for. However, 
I cant take that into account  in this decision. I know  Ms B and Mr R dont feel they have the 
energy to contest  matters  further with NHBC but that is what  theyd need to do for anyone 
at this service to make any findings  about the recent works and current situation. As 
I explained provisionally, my consideration only goes up to the date of NHBCs final 
response which was 5 October 2018.
I concluded my provisional findings by setting out my compensation award:
compensation
I see that Ms B has suggested that compensation equivalent to the monthly mortgage 
payment should  be paid across the term of the delay. I also see she thinks the NHBC 
website offers up to 10% of the purchase  price  of the property, so compensation should be 
paid accordingly.  Whilst I understand why Ms B may think these are appropriate methods of 
awarding compensation  they arent commensurate  with awards  made by this service.
NHBC has already offered a total of £950  compensation. Im not sure if its been paid or 
not. I think that is a good starting  point   but given  everything Ive seen it isnt enough. For 
me fair and reasonable compensation, for everything Im satisfied NHBC has put Ms B and 
Mr R through, within the relevant dates as set out above, is a total of £2,000.
Ref: DRN7864092Ms B and Mr R asked that I reconsider this amount, and provide  a figure based not just on 
the service received but the time it took for NHBC to take them  seriously. And which  
accounts for all their furniture and belongings being affected as well as their health.
Taking the last point  first  whilst I understand how Ms B and Mr R feel, their items were  
damaged by moisture and mould, and they believe  this affected their health too. Ive 
explained why I cant find NHBC liable for the damp and mould  issue,  so I also cant  award 
compensation for the damage that has been  caused or the effects that have been felt as a 
result.
My award is based on the upset NHBCs actions and inactions caused Ms B and Mr R  as 
I explained provisionally, the fact that NHBC didnt  take things on in 2016 and only did so 
after Ms B and Mr R went to the trouble of undertaking their own sound test, was factored 
into my award. As was the effect living with this issue had on both Ms B and Mr R, but 
particularly Mr R. 
There are more details on our website about how we calculate compensation. But, as I said 
provisionally, I wasnt looking at this over a four-year period. My timelines are set out in my 
background above but the longest period of upset I considered was in respect  of the sound  
issue and that period  was March 2016  5 October  2018. It may also help Ms B and Mr R to 
know that I dont  make  many awards  of £2,000 compensation.  My awards often dont 
exceed £1,000. I felt it was fair and reasonable to award such  a significant sum here 
because I accepted NHBCs failures  had markedly affected Ms B and Mr Rs lives. I remain  
of that view. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require National  House-Building Council to pay Ms B and Mr R a 
total of £2,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7864092