K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains U K Insurance Limited is delaying paying  his claim despite him providing  all 
the information it has asked for. 
background
Following his retirement Mr H decided to take a trip around the world. On 24 May 2017 Mr H 
booked a flight to America, departing on 14 June 2017. The booking  invoice shows Mr H 
was travelling alone and the flight cost £447.
Mr H has his travel insurance through Nationwide and is provided by UKI. He arranged a 
180 day extension to his insurance which started on 15 June 2017. Mr Hs passport was 
stamped by US immigration  on 14 June 2017.  He was originally due to fly home in 
December before continuing his world trip.
In September  2017 Mr H was walking and felt his knee  pop. He saw a doctor who diagnosed 
a torn meniscus (cartilage) in the knee. He needed  surgery for the knee. He initially got in 
touch with the Travel and Medical Assistance team (TMA) who confirmed  the policy wouldnt 
cover him for any treatment was wasnt deemed an emergency. But it would  repatriate  Mr H 
home to have the surgery done in the UK. However,  with knowledge of the waiting times in 
the UK and the impact this would have on Mr Hs continued travel, he decided to get 
secondary insurance in the US to cover the actual surgery. 
The surgery  took place  in November 2017  and during this time Mr H was seeking repayment 
of some of his medical invoices from UKI. Over  various e-mails and telephone calls,  it was 
explained that Mr H wouldnt be covered  for anything in relation to his surgery. But as he had 
declined to be repatriated  he could use an equivalent sum (for the cost of repatriation) for 
such things as the investigative procedures and a flight home  as Mr Hs original flight 
home couldnt be taken as hed needed  physiotherapy for his knee. 
He submitted several invoices to the TMA team who indicated he was fully covered 
financially. He then received conflicting  information that suggested  he wasnt covered.  Mr H 
complained about the conflicting information which was upheld and £100  offered for the 
inconvenience caused. He was also notified he would  need to make a claim to UKI in order 
for his payments  to be reimbursed. 
So he did this. But UKI asked for further  information.  It wants a booking invoice showing the 
trip booked,  the people travelling, how much it cost and the original date for returning. It also 
asked for a breakdown of what the secondary insurer  had paid for and what  Mr H was 
claiming from UKI. It also wanted  a copy of bank statements showing Mr Hs payments for 
the invoices. 
Mr H complained to UKI and us as much  of this information had already been provided. But 
as he didnt have  his original booking invoice  he had to ask for a copy  of that from the airline. 
UKI agreed  it hadnt handled the claim well and offered Mr H £100. But it said it needed the 
information before it was able to finalise the claim.  And it said as much  to us when it sent its 
file to our investigator. 
During our investigators consideration  of the complaint,  Mr H provided a copy  of his booking 
invoice for his trip to America. He has also confirmed  what  he is claiming  for and provided  
claim benefit information from his secondary insurer. But UKI doesnt  believe it has sufficient 
Ref: DRN79859962information from Mr H. It says it still needs  the booking  information and a breakdown from 
the secondary insurer of exactly  what it has paid for. 
Our investigator ultimately  concluded that Mr H had provided sufficient information  in relation 
to the booking. But thought UKI was being  fair in asking for a breakdown from the insurer.  
Since then Mr H has provided a breakdown of what he claiming for, a breakdown  of what his 
other insurer paid for, and what he is not covered for by either  insurer. Hes also provided  a 
copy of the passport stamp  when he landed in America. UKI has confirmed this information 
isnt sufficient for its information.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 August 2018  and said:
There doesnt appear to by any dispute  that Mr Hs investigative treatment, prior to the 
surgery, is covered. UKI has previously  said, on a number of occasions, both directly and 
through TMA, that these  would  be covered because Mr H had access  to the amount it would 
cost to repatriate him. 
So whats  at the heart  of this dispute is whether Mr H has provided sufficient information in 
order for his claim to be met. UKI has pointed  out, and I agree, that it is entitled to validate a 
claim. And I note the terms of the policy require all documentation  that is reasonably 
necessary in support of the claim.  So the question for me is whether UKI is applying  this 
term fairly  is the information it is asking for reasonable.  
I firstly turn to the booking  invoice. Mr H has provided his booking  invoice from his airline for 
his trip to America. This shows he booked the flight on 24 May 2017.  The flight  was on 
14 June 2017  to the US with Mr H as the only passenger and it cost £447.  I accept this isnt 
the original booking invoice, which unsurprisingly Mr H didnt  keep  he wasnt  to know this 
was something he might  need  later on in his trip. Instead Mr H asked the airline to provide 
another copy. This took a little time as he was reliant on the airline providing it. Since it did 
Mr H has sent this through  to UKI on several  occasions. I can see that our investigator has 
also sent it through several times. But despite  knowing the original booking invoice is no 
longer available, UKI continues to ask for it. In the absence of any material  reason from UKI 
as to why this information isnt sufficient, I consider it evidence of the trip booked such that I 
dont find its continued  requests for the original booking invoice to be reasonable. Indeed, I 
note in an e-mail dated 22 March 2018  to our investigator that it acknowledged it had seen 
proof of the original  outbound travel. Yet it continues to ask for the same. 
Im also unsure as to why its asked for evidence of Mr Hs original return date although I 
understand it was sometime in December 2017.  Mr H took a 180 day extension on his 
insurance and Im mindful that in the same e-mail referred to above, UKI said
We have seen the proof of the original outbound travel but note we do not have the 
original return travel details. However  this is not a problem as the PH had a trip 
extension covering the DOL so return proof is ok not to have it in this instance.
So UKI has itself said it doesnt  need  this information. I therefore  question what has 
happened for UKI to change its mind. It hasnt provided any material reason why it now 
needs this or why this isnt covered despite  the extension.
I turn now to the invoices. UKI has asked for a breakdown of what  Mr H is claiming from 
them and what he claimed from his secondary insurer. I understand this is so Mr H receives  
Ref: DRN79859963what he is entitled to and ensure the secondary  insurer hasnt already reimbursed these 
costs. Mr H has submitted his invoices and receipt  for payment on several occasions and 
some of those have changed over time.  He has clarified he is seeking reimbursement of:
$175 as he had to register with a doctor  in order  to be assessed.
$440 for 2 x-rays of his knee and an outpatient  visit.
$220  Mr H couldnt remember what this was for but it was pre-surgery.
$75 for a pre-procedural  exam.
$545.03 for his return flight  home.
UKI has indicated it thinks its responsible for:
$545.03 for Mr Hs return flight
$75 paid on 6 November
$50 paid on 7 November
$250  paid  on 9 November
$265 paid on 16 November
But as it hasnt seen  a bank statement showing the payment of $440 it isnt currently willing 
to pay these costs. 
Having looked  at the two lists there  is some  common ground  the return flight  and a 
payment for $75. So I see no reason  why these payments shouldnt  be reimbursed.  
Mr H has provided the receipt for the payment  for $175 for needing to register  with a doctor. 
The receipt shows this to be in Mr Hs name and that it was paid by a mastercard payment. I 
accept what Mr H tells us about needing to register with a doctor and so Im satisfied this 
payment needs  to be reimbursed. 
Mr H has also provided an invoice for his x-rays and the outpatient visit. Im aware UKI 
hasnt seen a bank statement showing this payment. Im also aware that Mr H paid in cash  
for one of his invoices  but isnt clear  which one. If it isnt this one, then Mr H needs to provide 
UKI with his bank statement showing this payment. On receipt  of that, UKI needs to 
reimburse this payment.  If this is the invoice Mr H paid with cash I ask him to let me know  in 
response to this provisional decision.  But given the other invoices submitted, including  those 
that Mr H isnt seeking repayment  of from UKI, I consider it likely Ill ask for this to be 
reimbursed. 
Mr H has also asked for reimbursement of $220.  This doesnt appear in UKIs  list and so it 
doesnt appear it has ever received evidence of Mr H making this payment. Mr H has also 
admitted he doesnt  recall  what this payment was for. The invoice shows  it was for an 
outpatient visit on 6 November. And it shows  that the secondary insurer  doesnt believe it is 
responsible for covering this payment   although  that could be appealed. As is stands, and 
because I dont know what  this payment  is for, I dont find I can fairly ask UKI to reimburse it. 
UKI has also included  three amounts $50, $250  and $265.  I can see from our records  that 
Mr H did in fact ask for reimbursement of $50 and $250 when initially  referring his complaint 
to us. And he has continued to ask for these payments throughout until very recently.  It isnt 
clear why these werent on his clarification of costs correspondence. But evidence of 
payment has been provided and UKI agrees it should cover  these cost. And so Im satisfied 
they should be reimbursed. 
Ref: DRN79859964However, I havent seen  any invoice at all for $265 either from Mr H or UKI so its unclear 
what this is for. But as UKI already agrees  this is a payment it should cover  I see no reason 
why it shouldnt do so.  
UKI has asked for a detailed breakdown from Mr Hs secondary insurer  as to what  it has 
paid. But UKI needs  to remember that Mr H is travelling and in areas that means  he doesnt 
always have access to technology. And he is at the mercy  of another  insurer as to whether  
or not it will provide  this information. He has already provided evidence in the form of benefit 
statements and claim detail information of what sums the secondary insurer has paid. These 
also show what the secondary insurer has refused to pay. Whilst this isnt the breakdown 
UKI is seeking, this does  show the amount the other insurer  has covered.  Given  the 
declinations we can see from these, I consider it highly unlikely that had Mr H submitted 
duplicate claims to the other insurer, and I dont think for one minute he did, they would have 
been paid.  
  
So whilst I can understand UKIs  request for additional information,  I think  Mr H has already 
provided the best information he has. And Im satisfied,  for the reasons set out above, that 
this is sufficient evidence  of Mr H making  the payments, aside from where I have found 
otherwise. UKI has provided no material reason as to why this information is not sufficient.   
How UKI need  to put this right
As I have found that Mr H has provided  reasonable evidence to substantiate his claim with 
UKI, it needs to pay Mr Hs claim. I require it to reimburse Mr H:
$75 for a pre-procedural exam
$545.03 for his return flight  home
$50 paid on 7 November
$250 paid on 9 November
$265 paid on 16 November
$175 to register  with a doctor
UKI will need to use the exchange rate applicable at the time of the payments, reimburse 
any known exchange  rate charges  and add 8% simple to each refund from the date Mr H 
made the payment to the date UKI settle  it. 
UKI should also be aware that I will likely  require it to reimburse $440 in the same  manner  
dependant on the responses I receive  to this provisional decision. 
Im also minded to ask UKI to increase  the offer of £100 it originally made  to Mr H for 
inconvenience it had caused him. Mr H has provided the same documentation several times 
to UKI. And on nearly every occasion Mr H was asked for the same information or told it 
wasnt sufficient without  any explanation of why. I dont  consider this to be particularly helpful 
and on occasion  it did appear that UKI was simply ignoring what it was sent, particularly  as it 
appeared TMA didnt  pass on the documents it had received. And UKI doesnt appear to 
have taken account that Mr H is travelling  and so doesnt have immediate, or any, access to 
what it was requesting. Im therefore  minded to ask UKI to increase the compensation 
payment to £300.  
As Mr H is travelling  these payments should be made by direct  bank transfer.  
Things have moved  on since  I issued  my provisional  decision.   
Ref: DRN79859965Mr H has said:
He cannot  locate a receipt  for the payment of $440 and neither can the other insurer.  
As he doesnt have  any outstanding  bills for the surgery, he believes this was the 
payment he made in cash.
He has since provided evidence that his trip started from the UK with a flight to 
Dublin and a further flight to the US. This information has been provided to UKI.
He has confirmed he never had a flight booked  from the US back  to the UK as that 
was something he was going to book whilst away.
UKI has said:
It never declined Mr Hs claim but requested information in order to substantiate  it. 
It has no record of stating the return booking was no longer required  this has since 
been provided to it. 
It made an exception to accept the outbound travel invoice on this occasion as it isnt 
an official document. 
It needed evidence  that he started his trip from the UK  this has since been  provided 
to it. 
It needed evidence  of his booked return flight home and that it would occur before 
the 180 day trip extension  expired.  
It doesnt agree it should pay increased  compensation  or understand why we are 
asking it to step outside the terms of the policy which it considers unfair and 
unreasonable. 
UKI has now accepted  the outbound journey  information but as it doesnt have evidence  of 
the flight home it doesnt agree to cover the return flight costs.
After reviewing this information, I explained  to Mr H that has he hadnt  booked and paid for a 
return flight, he hadnt suffered a financial loss in relation  to his return flight home and so I 
was no longer minded to require UKI to cover  this cost. Mr H accepted  that as it wasnt  
something he original claimed  for but something  UKI brought up. He is happy to receive 
what is owed in pre-surgery bills and the compensation  suggested. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
UKI has made no further submissions in relation to the pre-surgery costs that I set out 
should be covered  in my provisional  decision.  Mr H has explained he has searched for 
further information in relation to the $440 but cannot find anything  either  in his records or 
from the other insurer. He therefore  believes this is the cash  payment he made  particularly 
as there  are no outstanding bills in relation to the surgery.  Because of that, there is no bank 
statement to provide to UKI showing this payment being made. I accept what  Mr H has told 
us and require  UKI to reimburse this payment  as indicated was likely  in my provisional 
findings. 
Mr H hasnt provided any further information  about  the $220  payment he wanted reimbursed. 
So its unclear  what this payment is for, and whether it is something covered by the policy or 
Ref: DRN79859966UKI indicated it would cover. I therefore  remain of the view it wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to 
reimburse this payment.  
UKI said it needed evidence of the outbound and inbound bookings in order  to determine  the 
claim was covered and fell within the extension period.  It has now been  sent confirmation  of 
the outward booking, showing  that Mr H started  his journey in the UK on 14 June 2017. And 
as Mr H had his accident in September 2017  it was within the 180 day extension period. 
But as Mr H had never booked his return journey, he hasnt lost out financially by having  to 
cancel it. And as Mr H would have needed to return home, this is a cost he would have 
borne regardless  and so I no longer think it fair to ask UKI to reimburse this cost. Mr H 
understands and accepts  this. 
UKI thinks it unfair  and unreasonable that I have asked it to step outside  of the policy  terms 
and conditions. But thats not what Ive done.  As I set out in my provisional decision, UKI is 
entitled to validate a claim and the terms set out the requirement for documentation that is 
reasonably necessary in support of that. I havent  asked it to step outside  the terms of its 
policy but decided  whether it has applied  that term fairly. Nothing it has said in response to 
my provisional decision causes me to change my findings about that. And whilst UKI has 
referred to fairness  to other customers,  it needs to remember that all its customers are 
individuals with different needs and circumstances.   And in this particular case, I didnt think 
it had fully appreciated the situation Mr H was in or what  he was in a position to provide. 
For that reason,  and because UKI continually  asked for information Mr H had already 
provided and changed  its mind  several times on what it did or didnt need (including with us) 
I remain of the view UKI needs to pay Mr H compensation of £300 for the inconvenience  
caused. 
How UKI need  to put this right
As I have found that Mr H has provided  reasonable evidence to substantiate his claim with 
UKI, it needs to pay his claim. I require it to reimburse Mr H:
$75 for a pre-procedural exam
$440 for his x-rays
$50 paid on 7 November
$250 paid on 9 November
$265 paid on 16 November
$175 to register  with a doctor
UKI will need to use the exchange rate applicable at the time of the payments, reimburse 
any known exchange  rate charges  and add 8% simple per annum to each refund from the 
date Mr H made the payment to the date UKI settle it. 
Im also asking UKI to increase the offer of £100 it originally  made  to Mr H for inconvenience  
it had caused  him to £300 for the reasons already given. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited 
(trading as Direct Line Travel Insurance) to pay compensation to Mr H as set out above.
Ref: DRN79859967Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7985996