K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Acromas  Insurance Company Limited wont pay for the full 
cost of repairs to their car following a claim on their breakdown repair  cover  insurance policy.  
They want  it to refund their repair costs.  
background 
Mrs M was driving the car when she said she heard a loud bang. Acromas  roadside 
assistance attended and the mechanic  identified a bearing failure  that couldnt be repaired at 
the roadside. Mr M and Mrs M took the car to their garage which said that both front wheel 
bearings had failed. 
But Acromas  would only agree to fund one bearing  as it said two wouldnt suddenly fail. It 
said that the policy only covered sudden failures and it wouldnt cover collisions. Acromas  
offered to pay for one bearing as a gesture of goodwill.  However, Mr M and Mrs M said this 
had left them £370 out of pocket and they thought  Acromas should refund this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Acromas 
had relied on the policy  exclusion that pre-existing conditions  wouldnt be covered to decline 
the claim.  But she didnt think Acromas  had established that Mr M and Mrs M were aware of 
the problem before the breakdown. So she thought Acromas should pay the claim in full.
Acromas replied that it had provided expert and independent technical  evidence that the car 
would have been making a noise before the breakdown.  It thought the damage arose from 
extreme wear  and tear and then a collision, which was also excluded by the policy terms and 
conditions. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas firstly said it had declined the claim because it said it wasnt  caused by a sudden  
fault. It relied  on an independent engineers  report  that the problem with the bearings was 
due to wear and tear and that this would have been evident from noise. But Mr M and Mrs M 
said they only noticed the problem after Mrs M drove the car over some road works. She 
said she heard a thump and then the noise from under the car. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that the policy lists significant  exclusions from cover. These include pre-existing 
faults that the consumer was made aware of and faults caused by accidental damage.  This 
is further elaborated:
This policy is designed to cover sudden and unexpected breakdowns,  it is not intended as a 
warranty or to cover  any damage that you are already aware of and have not rectified, 
accidental damage  due to a collision
Ref: DRN74370672I think the exclusions are clearly set out and sufficiently brought  to the consumers attention 
except that by common definition an accident  is an unexpected event and so would be 
covered by the policys definition of a breakdown in the case  of mechanical  or electrical 
failure. But I think this exclusion is further explained  in the policy  as accidental damage due 
to a collision, so Ill rely on that. I cant see that wear and tear is excluded from cover. 
I think its fair and reasonable for Acromas to rely on the exclusions so long as it can show 
that the breakdown wasnt sudden and that the consumers knew about the fault beforehand  
and did nothing about it, or that it was caused  by a collision. But I think  that on this occasion 
Acromas hasnt sufficiently established these points  to rely on the exclusions  to decline the 
claim. Ill now explain why I think this. 
I can see that Acromas obtained expert engineering evidence to establish  that the bearings 
had a high degree of wear and tear. The engineers thought this would have  been  evident to 
Mr M and Mrs M from noise. But I cant see that theres evidence to show this. 
In Mrs Ms notification  call she said that the noise had just started and I have  no reason to 
disbelieve her. Mr M and Mrs M had made  a prior claim two weeks earlier. The attending 
repair man said he noted a noise but I cant see that he then related this to the bearings. And 
so I cant see that Mr M and Mrs M knew there was a problem with them. The repairing 
garage didnt make  any comment on this noise.  And I cant  see evidence that the noise 
continued after these  repairs  were made.
So I cant see that Acromas has shown that the bearing fault was pre-existing and that Mr M 
and Mrs M were aware of it and did nothing about it. And so I cant  see that its shown  that it 
wasnt a sudden or unexpected event. 
Acromas also said that it could decline the claim  because the damage had been caused  by 
an accident or collision. But the policy exclusion speaks  of accidental damage due to a 
collision. Mrs M said she had driven over some roadworks. I cant  see what these were. But 
I dont think its been established that she collided with anything. So I dont think  its fair or 
reasonable for Acromas to rely on this to decline the claim. 
I can see that the policy does cover  breakdowns  due to sudden or unexpected events. I think 
Acromas hasnt shown sufficient evidence to exclude this breakdown from cover. So I think it 
has unfairly declined  the claim. I think it should  now pay the claim for repairing both bearings 
on production of reasonable evidence for the costs  incurred. Mr M and Mrs M have been 
without their money for some time, so I think Acromas should reasonably add interest  to this 
payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Refund Mr M and Mrs M the costs incurred for the repair of both bearings, upon  
production of reasonable evidence of these costs, adding interest at 8% simple per year 
from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN743706732.HM Revenue  & Customs requires Acromas to withhold  income  tax from that interest.  It 
must give Mr M and Mrs M a certificate showing how much its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7437067