K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that U K Insurance Limited  has treated her claim for lost earrings as a 
fraudulent claim and cancelled her home  insurance policy.  
background
Mrs R went to the gym on 16 September 2017. On returning home  that night she realised  
her earrings were missing. She later reported this to her gym but it hadnt had anything  
handed into lost property. 
She made a claim for her lost earrings on 25 September 2017. She explained the earrings 
were a pair of 18ct white gold studs  that had 0.75ct diamonds. She explained she thought 
she lost them at the gym whilst taking off a tight hoody. UKI appointed a jewellery specialist 
to deal with the claim on in its behalf.  Ill call it L. 
Mrs R sent L a copy of a photo she says she obtained from her ex-husband showing her 
wearing the earrings  although only one was showing. L had concerns about the picture as 
the metadata showed the picture was taken  on 1 October 2017, after the loss had been 
reported. Concerned  about the claim, L referred the matter back  to UKI. 
On 12 October 2017 UKI spoke with Mrs R to get more details about  the claim. During this 
call, it raised concerns  about the metadata showing the picture had been taken on 1 October 
2017. Mrs R couldnt  understand this and was adamant the picture had been taken many 
months ago. She explained her husband bluetoothed  the picture to her phone and she then 
facetuned the picture and saved it to her camera roll. She explained to UKI that facetune 
was an app that allowed to you make changes  to pictures and thought that was the reason 
the data had changed. When told UKI would need  a copy of the original picture, Mrs R 
indicated she would  try and obtain it but as she was going through a divorce that might  not 
be possible. 
The following  day, after speaking with her sister, she found a copy of the original picture in 
her deleted items. She also found  another picture  showing  her wearing the earrings  on her 
work laptop. So she e-mailed these to UKI. The new pictures had metadata  showing they 
were taken on two different dates in December 2016. This caused further confusion as 
neither of these  pictures were the same as the one sent by Mrs R originally. When UKI 
queried this with Mrs R she explained the wrong  picture had been sent initially  her sister 
had helped her send the picture as she was unsure  how to do this on her phone. Mrs R 
further explained she hadnt  checked  the right picture was attached  and confirmed the 
earrings in the picture dated 1 October 2017  were  glass earrings used to ensure her holes 
didnt close. 
The matter  was sent back to L for review. But UKI decided not to accept Mrs Rs 
explanation; she had never  previously  explained the picture  sent on 1 October didnt detail  
the earrings she was claiming  for. UKI consider the picture was staged and deliberately  
taken after the loss; it believes the earrings  werent lost and remain in her possession.  
Because of that if found Mrs R hadnt  complied with the general condition to be honest with it 
and it has relied on the fraud clause. As a result of this it declined the claim and cancelled 
the home insurance policy from 1 October  2017   the date the initial photograph was sent. 
Mrs R complained about that decision  but UKI stood by it, so she referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. Although he understood the concerns  UKI had he 
Ref: DRN76353712didnt think it had shown  that Mrs R had made dishonest  claim and so he didnt think  it fair it 
rely on its fraud clause  or that it cancel the policy. UKI disagreed  and asked for the matter to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
I asked further questions of the parties. Mrs R confirmed the picture she obtained from her 
ex-husband was obtained  using dropbox. UKI said all the pictures were provided on the 
same device  I asked for evidence as the file information only showed  all pictures  were  
taken on an Iphone 7, not the same  Iphone  7. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for broadly the same reason as the investigator. 
Mrs Rs home insurance policy provides personal  possession cover.  This means  UKI will 
indemnify Mrs R if personal possessions are damaged or lost within  the British Isles.  So the 
loss of Mrs Rs earrings  is potentially  covered  under the policy. 
UKI is seeking to rely on the fraud  section of the general conditions,  which  says:
You must be honest  in your  dealings  with us at all times. 
We will not pay as claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf 
attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
Your policy may be cancelled
We may reject your claim  and any subsequent claims
We may keep any premium you have paid
What happens if we discover  fraud
We have the right to cancel any other  products you hold with us and share 
information about your behaviour with other  organisations  to prevent further fraud.  
Fraud is a growing concern in the insurance industry. And if concerns are noted with the 
evidence provided  during  a claims investigation, its right for an insurer to investigate further 
and test the evidence. However, I wouldnt expect an insurer  to rely on a fraud clause or 
cancel a policyholders insurance for genuine mistakes or errors.
The original  picture  sent by Mrs R had metadata showing it was taken  on 1 October 2017. 
This is after the date Mrs R reported the loss of the earrings to UKI. So I can fully understand 
the concerns it had about this evidence.  And it was right for it to make further enquiries with 
Mrs R. Having listened to the call, I agree  Mrs R was surprised to be asked questions about  
that, but I disagree she was hesitant to answer. Rather Mrs R was adamant  the picture  
wasnt taken on 1 October 2017 but many months before. And it was for that reason a 
discussion followed about facetune and whether or not that could  change  the metadata of a 
picture. 
It was only following Mrs R resending the image  from her deleted items,  along with another 
photo, that it came to light that the wrong  picture had been sent initially.  Its therefore  clear to 
Ref: DRN76353713me that when UKI was discussing  the first picture  with Mrs R they were,  in fact, talking about  
two different pictures.     
Mrs R explained that her sister had helped her attach the picture so she could send it to UKI. 
Im unsure  why UKI has concerns about  this. Im not persuaded this is a change of story 
from Mrs R, she still sent the picture,  it was just the wrong  attachment.  In the normal course  
of sending a picture,  Im not persuaded people would explain the attachment had been 
attached by someone else as they didnt  know  how to do this, particularly without being 
prompted. 
The metadata for the actual picture  Mrs R intended to send, alongside a second  picture  she 
found on her work laptop, show the pictures  were taken in December 2016. This ties in with 
Mrs Rs testimony  about how old the picture was. UKI has concerns that Mrs R admits her 
daughter takes  many  photos and yet she had to ask her ex-husband for a picture showing 
the earrings. I dont have the same concerns. During  the calls I have listened to Mrs R 
explains she usually wears her hair down and thats why she didnt have many pictures 
showing the earrings   they were  usually covered by her hair.   
UKI has also said all the pictures  were  taken on the same device. I asked for evidence of 
this as the metadata information we had been  provided only showed  the pictures had all 
been taken on an Iphone  7  but the metadata didnt show they had all been taken on the 
same Iphone 7. UKI hasnt provided  any evidence in support of this position. However, it has 
continued to rely on information Mrs R gave about the first picture to support  its concerns. 
Its referred to Mrs R not explaining  the first picture  wasnt showing the earrings claimed  for 
and that she initially  said the picture  was taken by her husband  which she has now admitted  
is untrue. 
But those  submissions were made  on the assumption she had sent the correct picture to 
UKI. When she realised the picture  was wrong  she did explain the earrings in the initial 
picture werent those  being claimed  for. And I disagree with its position that Mrs R admitted 
the first picture being taken by her ex-husband was untrue  I think that gives an inaccurate 
and overly negative  impression of Mrs Rs explanation that the wrong attachment was sent.  
UKI hasnt  provided  any persuasive evidence the picture Mrs R says was taken by her ex-
husband, sent on 13 October 2017  (and taken in December 2016), wasnt taken by him or 
that it was taken on the same phone as the pictures taken on Mrs Rs phone.  
Mrs R has also said you can tell the earrings  in the wrong attachment are different to the 
earrings in the right photos. I agree with UKI that it isnt possible from the pictures alone to 
tell glass and diamond earrings apart. But I do think there is a difference in size such  that Im 
satisfied they are two different pairs  of earrings. Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs R made a 
genuine mistake  by attaching the wrong  picture  when providing evidence  of the earrings 
initially. 
UKI also has concerns  about Mrs Rs testimony in relation to the gym.  It has concerns over 
when Mrs R told the gym the earrings were missing. Mrs R says it was the next time she 
was in the gym which she thought  might  have been a couple of days later. It transpires she 
was in the following day, missed a day and then back the day after that. Im not persuaded 
Mrs R mixing up her days is sufficient  evidence that she has made a fraudulent claim. UKI 
has also referred to Mrs R telling it she can be seen on the CCTV looking around  the 
changing room  for her earrings. It appears from the information provided UKI has inferred 
that she was submitting  she saw the CCTV herself. But having listened to the call, I think 
Ref: DRN76353714Miss R was making an assumption, albeit an incorrect one, that there was CCTV in the 
changing room  which would support her version  of events. 
Finally, I note UKI had concerns whether earrings could even become dislodged in the 
manner described  by Mrs R. Given she said she was wearing  a tight hoody I consider this to 
be an entirely plausible explanation of how the earrings came loose. 
Overall, having considered this matter carefully,  Im not persuaded UKI has shown the claim 
by Mrs R was fraudulent or that she has used fraudulent  devices to obtain something she 
wasnt entitled to. I therefore  uphold this complaint. 
How UKI need  to put this right
As Im not persuaded UKI has shown that Mrs R has made a fraudulent claim, or used 
fraudulent devices, I dont  find it fair for it to rely on the fraud general condition in the policy.  
With that in my mind  I require UKI to:
Pay Mrs Rs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add 8% simple interest per annum to the settlement figure  from the date of loss to 
the date the claim  is settled.
Remove any record it has in its own records or industry databases  about  a fraudulent 
claim and policy cancellation. 
I also think Mrs R has been put some trouble in relation to this matter. She has been  
accused of fraud and was told information  would be recorded about that and the policy  
cancellation, which likely impacted any other  insurance she wanted to obtain. So I think UKI 
should also pay Mrs R £100 for the impact its unfair handling of this claim has had.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs R compensation in accordance with what  have set above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7635371