K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that HSBC mis-sold them an interest  only mortgage as it didnt 
disclose to them that it wouldnt extend the term of the mortgage when it matured.
background
Mr and Mrs A remortgaged to HSBC  in 2006  on an interest only basis  with the term ending  
on 1 April 2017. But before the term ended,  in 2016, Mr and Mrs A remortgaged with another  
lender. The capital balance outstanding at that time was £270,000. In 2012  and again  in 
2015 Mr and Mrs A approached HSBC about  extending the term of the mortgage. At the 
meeting with HSBC  in 2015, they asked for an extension of the term until aged 75 with the 
repayment vehicle  being either or both the sale of a second property or their lump sum 
pension. 
In both cases Mr and Mrs A say that they were  told that the term wouldnt be extended but 
that a new repayment mortgage could be considered. Mr and Mrs A suggested a part 
repayment /part interest only mortgage  but they say this was refused although they 
eventually got such a loan with another lender and so redeemed  the HSBC  mortgage in 
2016. Mr and Mrs A say that under  the banks terms and conditions  it said that it could 
exercise its discretion  to extend the mortgage  term, but it exercised no discretion
HSBC says that when a term comes to an end that it doesnt extend the term of mortgage 
except in cases of financial difficulty but that the bank would consider a new application  for a 
new mortgage. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr and Mrs A £150 on the basis  that the 
conversations with its staff were  unclear.
our investigators view
Our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs A took the right steps to contact  HSBC  in advance  of 
the mortgage maturing with what she considered a reasonable  strategy to repay the capital 
on the mortgage over an extended period. So, our investigator recommended that HSBC 
increase its offer to Mr and Mrs A to cover their distress and inconvenience to £250. Mr and 
Mrs A disagreed and asked for a review.
my provisional findings
I reviewed the evidence in this complaint  and issued my Provisional Decision. I set out my 
findings below.
I noted that Mr and Mrs A took out this mortgage  hoping to build a house  on excess land 
attached to the house and sell it and pay off the mortgage. But with the change  in the 
economic environment after 2007  this plan couldnt be realised. So, on two occasions in 
2012 and again in 2015 Mr A approached HSBC about what  to do when the mortgage term 
ended. 
I said that there was no contemporaneous record of these conversations. I recorded that in 
the 2012 conversation Mr A said they were asking about a term extension,  but he said that 
the adviser told them it wouldnt be possible to extend the term of the existing  mortgage.  
HSBC has said that apart  from financial difficulties that statement  is technically correct 
although it would consider  new lending  over a longer term but Mr A doesnt recall  being told 
this.
Ref: DRN72087052I noted that in 2015 Mr A wrote  to HSBC to ask it to extend the term of the mortgage which  
at that time was about £270,000 and that Mr and Mrs A then had a long meeting with a 
HSBC mortgage  adviser.  Mr and Mrs A said that they would be unable to repay the 
mortgage in 2017 but wanted an extension of the mortgage until they were  aged 75. I noted 
that Mr and Mrs A would have been 66 when the original term matured, so they were looking 
for a term extension of nine years.  
Mr and Mrs A said that they proposed that, as Mr A had a pensionable job which  would be 
open to him until he was 75, he could pay off some of the capital from his pension when he 
retired. Mr A separately had a SIPP with an encashment value of about £60,000 and Mr and 
Mrs A had a buy to let property with equity at that time that they believed  to be in excess  of 
£60,000. I noted that Mr and Mrs A were doing  what the regulator would want them  to do 
which was if they were unable to repay  the capital at maturity  to have looked for a solution 
such as in this case  an extension of the mortgage  until they were 75. 
I noted that the mortgage adviser  might have produced a decision in principle for a 
repayment mortgage, the repayments for which Mr and Mrs A couldnt afford. But I said that 
Mr and Mrs A s clear  recollection was that no consideration was given to their desired  
outcome which  was the extension of their interest  only mortgage or indeed  any other 
solution any of which would involve an interest-only  element.  I said that I believed that I 
could safely rely on Mr As recollection as its clear from his earlier correspondence that his 
objective was to get this extension.  
So, I noted that Mr and Mrs A left the meeting on the basis that HSBC  wouldnt agree to 
extend the term of their interest - only mortgage. As a result, they went to another lender. Mr 
and Mrs A agreed a deal with that lender. This was based on reducing the overall  borrowing 
and then Mr and Mrs A taking out a part capital repayment/part interest-only mortgage  with 
that lender. 
I said that it seemed  to me that at their meeting, HSBC failed to engage with Mr and Mrs A to 
offer to look at the extension of the interest-only  mortgage to see it was in Mr and Mrs As 
best interests to do so. I noted that the phrase - best interests-  wasnt referred  to by either 
HSBC or Mr and Mrs A and I believed that it was reasonable to assume  that it wasnt  used  at 
that meeting.  But I said that in this context  where Mr and Mrs A were  approaching HSBC 
with their term coming to an end and with their difficulties repaying the capital, thats  what  
HSBC should  have been looking at. I said that it should have examined Mr and Mrs As 
proposals in the light of that. As HSBC didnt use that filter to look at Mr and Mrs As 
proposals, I said that I intended to uphold this complaint.  
I noted that I wasnt pre-judging whether such an extension should have been granted. I said 
judging whether it was in Mr and Mrs As best interests would not have been a straight 
forward matter as it depended on several complex  matters. But I noted  that as our 
investigator said Mr and Mrs A had a reasonable plan which deserved consideration. I said 
that it was fair and reasonable, and in line with the regulators expectations, that HSBC 
should have given fair and individual consideration to Mr and Mrs As plans to repay the 
interest only mortgage over a longer  period when they found themselves unable  to do so at 
the end of the term. Ive seen no evidence that HSBC did that, and it seems to be saying that 
its policy is not to do so.
I noted that Mr and Mrs A came to us after they secured a deal with another lender which  
they seem  content  with. My reading  of their complaint is not that the new deal was worse  
Ref: DRN72087053financially for them but rather that they had expectations of what  HSBC should  have done 
which were not met and they found  this disappointing and stressful.  
Although our investigator felt that an award  of £250 would have been appropriate my view 
was different. I noted that Mr and Mrs A had gone to great efforts  to engage with HSBC and 
must have  been  very disappointed with HSBCs  response. I also recognised that coming  to 
the end of the mortgage term would have been stressful  to them with no appropriate 
assistance from their lender. So, I said that I intended to increase the compensation to £500.
After issuing my Provisional Decision I invited further submissions from Mr and Mrs A and 
HSBC.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A have  accepted my Provisional Decision.  HSBC hasnt. It says that when Mr 
and Mrs A approached  them in 2012 and 2015, they had, according to Mr and Mrs A, only 
£120,000 available to repay the mortgage  and this was insufficient  to pay off the balance of 
about £270,000. So, as Mr and Mrs A couldnt have paid off the mortgage on maturity and 
would still not have the means to fully repay  the lending  over a further 9 years, it wouldnt 
have been in the customers best interests to push what it calls an unachievable deadline 
further down the line. HSBC says that in cases  of financial difficulties it may allow  an 
extension but will only consider this once the mortgage term expires which  wasnt  then the 
case with Mr and Mrs A.
HSBC and I agree that each case should  be dealt with individually, but my view is that is not 
how it approached  this case.  Mr and Mrs A came to them in 2012 and 2015 because they 
would be unable to pay off the mortgage in 2017.  From  the letter written by Mr and Mrs A to 
HSBC on 15 June  2015 they point  out their difficulties but also suggest  some solutions -
realisation of some  assets,  possible downsizing, possible equity release on their existing 
property, extension of the mortgage  until Mr A was 75.  
As I understand the banks  position as set out in its email to us of 2 July 2020, it felt that it 
wasnt required to assist  Mr and Mrs A at an early stage with the prospective problem of 
being unable  to pay off their mortgage  balance at maturity but only after the mortgage term 
expired. 
But the FCA issued  Guidance in 2013 to assist firms in these types of situation to comply 
with Principle 6 of the FCAs Principle  for Businesses which is that  a firm must pay due 
regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly  The Guidance  promotes early  
engagement by banks as its title suggests  Dealing fairly with interest-only mortgage  
customers who risk being  unable to repay their loan. More recently in line with that earlier  
Guidance it has published a brochure  called Interest-only mortgages:  act now and talk to 
your lender, again urging early engagement which is exactly  what Mr and Mrs A set out to 
do in 2012 and 2015. Mr and Mrs A were approaching HSBC to look at some of the solutions 
suggested in the Guidance. As I indicated previously, Im not pre-judging what  possible 
solutions were feasible  only that they should have been explored.   
In my view Mr and Mrs A were facing up to the impending problem and had a reasonable 
plan to discharge the full balance over time which deserved consideration. I note that they 
Ref: DRN72087054have successfully achieved this aim with another lender. So, another lender took the view 
that repayment was achievable with time. But in my view HSBC didnt assist Mr and Mrs A. 
As I noted  in my Provisional Decision, HSBC appears to be saying that its policy  isnt to give 
early consideration to customers with prospective problems of paying off their mortgage. I 
have taken into account the regulators Guidance  and I think  that in this particular  case  the 
bank didnt give proper  consideration to Mr and Mrs As dilemma  or assist them in coming to 
a solution. Mr and Mrs A left the meeting in 2015 having only been offered the possibility of a 
repayment mortgage which they couldnt afford. Ive considered HSBCs further 
submissions, but they dont alter my view that my Provisional  Decision represents  a fair 
outcome to this complaint and that I should uphold  this complaint. 
HSBC also suggest  that compensation of £350  would be adequate but for the reasons set 
out in my Provisional Decision I believe that £500 more fairly compensates Mr and Mrs A.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC  UK Bank  PLC to pay Mr and 
Mrs A £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7208705