K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
made a payment to him and with how it dealt with the situation  when he said he hadnt 
received this.
background
Prudential sent Mr G a cheque for the money from a matured  endowment in July 2018. Mr G 
was expecting the cheque, so when he didnt receive it, he asked Prudential about  this and 
said he wanted it paid directly to his bank  account  instead. Prudential told him that he should 
wait a day, as the cheque was sent second  class (rather than first class  as hed been led 
to believe). Prudential  said it would give Mr G a call the following week  to see if the cheque 
arrived.
When Prudential called  Mr G, he still hadnt received  the cheque and wanted  it stopped.  
Prudential explained  that it may still arrive  in the post, but itd send Mr G some forms so he 
could get the payment made to his bank account instead. Shortly  after this, the cheque  was 
credited to an account that Mr G said wasnt his and he had no awareness of. But it took 
Prudential over a week  to tell Mr G this.
Mr G complained to Prudential about  how it issued  the cheque  and how it dealt with the 
situation. Prudential  said that the cheque was issued in line with its standard process for 
sending money  to a customer  in these circumstances.  But it acknowledged that the service it 
provided couldve been better. It said it couldve given Mr G clearer information and been 
more helpful. So it offered  to pay £500  for this. Mr G didnt  accept this amount and brought  
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into this and felt that £500 was fair compensation. She said that 
Prudential shouldve made Mr G aware of what happened with the cheque  sooner. She also 
noted that Mr G had to regularly  contact  Prudential to find out what  was happening and it 
often wasnt able to give him information.  She felt that some  of this was due what  happened  
with the cheque after it was issued by Prudential, which was outside of its control.  But she 
did feel that Prudential  couldve been  more proactive. Overall though, she was satisfied that 
£500 was fair compensation for the impact this had.
Mr G disagreed, saying that he felt it should pay more compensation. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so here, Im satisfied that 
what Prudential has offered is fair.
Prudential has explained that it issues cheques in the way it did here as part of its normal 
process to give customers access to the money  from a matured endowment.  The cheque 
was crossed and was sent in line with its usual process. I dont think that following this 
process here led Mr G being disadvantaged  in anyway. The cheque  was crossed, meaning it 
was only made payable to him and I havent  seen anything to suggest  that what  happened 
with the cheque when it was cashed was Prudentials fault because of how it issued and 
sent it.
Ref: DRN75888522But Prudential, by its own admission, couldve handled this situation better. It was clear it 
couldve given Mr G clearer information  about  what was happening.  It should also have  kept 
him updated much more  pro-actively. The impact of Mr G finding  out from his own efforts 
what happened with the cheque means it must have been a real shock to discover what  
happened. Really, Prudential shouldve been the one to tell him that. It certainly knew he 
was worried about  it from the amount of contact  itd had with him to that point.
So Prudential should compensate him for the impact this had. I think £500 is a very fair offer 
to recognise this. I say this because Prudential can only be held liable for what  happened 
until the cheque  was paid and for how it handled  the situation surrounding this. There were 
unavoidable issues  here because of the involvement  of other  businesses.  But for the 
problems that Prudential caused,  I think £500 fairly  compensates Mr G.
Im aware that Mr G has been offered a different amount of compensation from another 
business involved in cashing the cheque.  I can understand why Mr G might compare the 
differing amounts of compensation here. But its my role to consider each individual  
complaint based  on the circumstances. Having done  so here, I think what  Prudential has 
offered is fair.
If this hasnt already  been paid to Mr G  he should  get in contact with Prudential if hed now 
like to accept this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that 
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited doesnt  need  to do any more than its already 
offered to put this complaint right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7588852