K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
During a meeting in 1998 Mr and Mrs P applied for a mortgage with Santander. At the same  
time they took out a PPI policy to protect  their repayments if either of them lost their jobs.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and Mr and Mrs P wouldve understood  they had a choice  in taking the 
policy and thought it wouldve suited their needs  at the time. 
Mr and Mrs P disagree. They say they didnt need  the policy and it was mis-sold. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. Santander  had to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs P say this wasnt done  but havent  given  us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what  the documents 
from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
The PPI policy is a standalone policy and applied for on a separate  application form with a 
separate direct debit  mandate from the mortgage. Due to the passage of time Santander  
doesnt have a copy of the application form that was completed for Mr and Mrs P but I think  it 
was likely a form was completed as I have  seen a copy  of the welcome  letter sent out to 
them which confirms they applied for PPI and that a direct debit payment had been  set up for 
it. So I think Mr and Mrs P wouldve understood they had a choice in taking the policy and 
that it was separate from the mortgage.  
Also, Mr and Mrs P were  covered for unemployment  only,  even though  they had the option 
of taking PPI to cover them in the event they were unable to work due to accident or 
sickness. I think this suggests  a discussion was had about what  cover they needed and a 
choice was made about what cover they wanted. I note that both Mr and Mrs P say they 
were entitled  to good sick pay in their jobs and this may be why they chose only to take 
unemployment cover. 
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs P could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN75967242I dont know if Santander took all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs P for the following reasons:
They were  both eligible  for the policy and it doesnt look like they wouldve been  caught 
by any of the main  exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve 
made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs P say they were entitled to a good level of sick pay 
and that their parents wouldve helped if they lost their jobs. But there is no guarantee 
their parents  couldve helped and the policy wouldve  covered them in this event for up 
to 12 months per claim  and paid out on top of any redundancy  pay or other means.  
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs P in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs P wouldve been  interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs P at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could cancel  it. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs P information  in a way which  
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I dont  know if Santander gave all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs P have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the PPI policy  if theyd been given  all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Mrs P arent  any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7596724