K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the increase in price for his annual multi-trip travel  insurance policy  
provided by Astrenska Insurance Limited.  He also complains that Astrenska failed to make  
the important  changes sufficiently clear to him in its renewal documents.  
Astrenska is the underwriter of this policy. In this decision  my references  to Astrenska 
include the company  it uses  as its agent to give Mr B information about his policy. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. This is what I said:
Mr B has held annual multi-trip travel  insurance with Astrenska for a number of years. The 
policy includes cover  for scuba diving up to 40 metres in depth. Until 2018  the policy gave 
worldwide cover excluding the USA and Canada.
In 2018 Astrenska sent Mr B the renewal  documents for his policy.  Mr B made a number of 
complaints to Astrenska.  In summary he said:
The renewal quote had almost tripled  in price from the previous years price.
Astrenska didnt  show the previous years premium, as it is required to do.
If the price rise was linked to his age then this was discrimination and illegal.
Astrenska failed  to properly flag up that it had restricted the worldwide cover further 
so that it included not only USA and Canada, but also Mexico and the Caribbean.  
This was particularly concerning because the latter countries are popular diving 
locations. 
In summary  Astrenska responded to say:
It explained its systems generated premiums were based on various factors including 
age, destination,  medical conditions and previous claims experience.  
Mr Bs age bracket had changed to a higher bracket, and statistically this higher age 
group submits a higher value of claim  hence  the increased premium even though 
Mr B himself hadnt claimed. 
Claims costs  have  been rising which affected  the policy premiums. 
Both Mexico and the Caribbean are classed as high risk countries, which  is why 
they are now covered  only under  a worldwide policy. 
It offered  a 15% discount  for renewal, but didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr B responded to say that Astrenska had missed the main thrust of his complaint. In 
particular he said that Astrenska didnt deal with his concern that its renewal letter  was 
potentially misleading.  The policy cover had been significantly reduced for a large increase 
in premium. It wasnt clear why this happened  given the cover  was restricted, as hed expect 
the cost to go down  rather  than up. Referring to motor insurance he said Astrenska should 
provide figures  to show that increased  age corresponded to an increase in the cost of 
claims.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B asked  for a review. So the complaints 
come to me.
Ref: DRN72704112my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons and in doing so Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues.
the renewal documents
Mr B is correct  that an insurer must give a consumer enough information for them to be able 
to make an informed choice about  whether  the policy is suitable for them. As Mr B says his 
policy renewed automatically. I think that Astrenska brought  the important and significant 
changes in the policy cover to his attention in good  time before the renewal date. The 
renewal letter said Mr B should look at the documents, including the important changes  to 
the policy information. 
Astrenska set out in the important information  document  that the geographical regions cover  
of the policy  had changed,  with Mexico and the Caribbean now being excluded. This 
information was in larger print than the other information, in bold and alongside  an 
exclamation mark. In addition the renewal quotation  included the change in geographical 
region. I do see why Mr B was concerned about  this, given he dives in these regions. But 
I think Astrenska did enough  to flag this information before the policy renewal  date. 
I agree  with Mr B that Astrenska did miss the point of his complaint about the geographical 
changes when it focused on its decision to restrict the cover  rather  than how it was 
communicated to him. I think Mr B would  still have made his complaint to us but I agree it 
was frustrating that it didnt deal with this point and then didnt respond to his follow-up email 
pointing this out. 
the pricing information
Astrenska was required to give Mr B the last years policy premium in the renewal 
information. It did this in the renewal quotation under the heading  important information and 
with a request  that he check his insurance still met his needs. 
the increase in price
An insurer  or underwriter  is entitled  to decide what risks it will cover and the price it will 
charge for those  risks. But Mr B complained to Astrenska that it had illegally  discriminated  
against him on grounds of his age. It didnt  respond to this part of the complaint. 
As our adjudicator says its not my role to decide whether a particular policy decision is 
discriminatory, as thats for the courts  to decide. But I can decide whether Astrenska treated 
Mr B fairly and reasonably taking into account, amongst other things, relevant law and 
regulations.
The relevant  law here is The Equality Act (the Act), which sets out some  circumstances  
where insurance companies are legally allowed to treat consumers of different ages 
differently. In effect, the Act says insurance  companies can treat people of different ages 
differently if they can show a reasonable basis for this difference. The Act says that the 
Ref: DRN72704113insurance companys  decisions  must be based  on information relevant to the assessment of 
the risk to be insured and from a reliable  source.
In other  words, Astrenska  has to carry out a risk assessment, and that risk assessment 
about age must be carried out by reference  to information which is relevant to the 
assessment of risk and from a source on which its reasonable to rely. A reasonable source 
includes empirical, actuarial, statistical,  qualitative research or other material or data from 
UK or international  sources.
Weve asked Astrenska  for information  about why Mr Bs premium increased  when he went 
into its new age bracket.  Its given us information about the loss ratio  for customers  in 
Mr Bs current age bracket as compared  to customers  in the lower age bracket.  The loss 
ratio is essentially the cost to it of claims made  by insured customers as a proportion of the 
premiums paid. This information  is given to us in confidence as it is commercially sensitive 
and weve  agreed  to accept it on this basis. 
Ive reviewed the information. Having taken into account the law I think Astrenska treated 
Mr B fairly. I say this because I find Astrenskas decision to increase the premium was based  
on the cost to it of claims made by insured people in Mr Bs current age bracket as 
compared to the lower  age bracket.  Astrenskas  decision to increase the premium  taking into 
account Mr Bs age was based on information  that was relevant  to the assessment of risk 
and from a source on which it is reasonable to rely.
Astrenska didnt make any further  comments in response to my provisional decision.
Mr B responded to say that he was disappointed with my decision. He said Astrenska (and 
the insurance industry generally)  needs to be upfront about changes  by positively 
highlighting them, which wasnt done here. He says this is in contrast to the banks, which  
deal honestly and professionally  with customers.  He used the example  of a change  in 
credit card terms  and conditions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Bs comments and Im sorry hes disappointed with my decision. But his 
comments dont change  my mind about the fair outcome of this complaint. For the reasons 
given in my provisional  decision  and here I dont uphold this complaint.
I note Mr Bs comments about banks and insurance  companies, but my role is to decide his 
individual complaint. As set out in my provisional decision I think Astrenska did clearly  
highlight the significant changes it was making in the policy cover for the new policy year.  It 
did this ahead of the renewal date and gave Mr B the option  whether or not to continue with 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN72704114my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and in this final decision I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7270411