K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs J bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint because:
I think FICL made Mrs J aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Js application form. On this form theres  a 
section headed  Protecting your account.   This section  had an option to sign 
separately if account cover was to be added.
Mrs J has complained that it wasnt explained that shed be taking PPI. Near the top 
of the form it lists the three elements of account cover, Ive also considered  that    
Mrs J has consented to taking the cover  when it seems that she knew  it included  
purchase protection. So I cant  reasonably  say that she wouldnt have agreed to take 
the cover  had she known  that it also included PPI  for the same price.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. 
I think its more likely than not that the information FICL  gave  Mrs J about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  So Ive considered if better  information  would 
have changed  Mrs Js decision  about  taking the cover. 
Mrs J doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. So on balance, I dont think that better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ref: DRN70008802Ive taken into account Mrs Js comments,  including what  shes  said about  not needing PPI 
because of her existing means  of making her repayments. But even when Ive considered 
Mrs Js existing means of making  her repayments I still think that she had a need for PPI.      
I say this because:
Although Mrs Js family may well have  wanted to help her make  her repayments, 
circumstances can change and they may not have been  in a position  to help when 
needed.
 
This PPI policy could have paid out for longer  than the sick pay that Mrs J has told us 
about. Having  the PPI policy  would  also have allowed Mrs J the option  of not needing 
to rely on her sick pay to make her repayments or the option of using her sick pay to 
pay for other living expenses that she may have  had.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7000880