K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) sold her accounts to 
a third party unfairly and have since  refused to help her settle her debts.
background
Miss H had three accounts  with Creation. This service looked into a previous complaint 
about those accounts and directed Creation to pay compensation to Miss H and to conduct 
financial reviews of the accounts each year.
After that decision  was made, Creation  sold the accounts to a third party  which Ill call L. 
Miss H contacted L and found that they werent aware of the previous complaint or the 
requirement for annual  reviews. This all happened at a very difficult  time for Miss H and she 
found it very distressing. The accounts  have  since been recalled by Creation and Miss H has 
made a reduced  settlement offer to pay off the accounts, but this has been rejected.
She made a second complaint about  the fact that her accounts were sold to L and the stress 
this caused her. Shes also unhappy that Creation didnt accept her offer to settle and close  
the accounts and that her credit file continues to be affected. 
Creation agreed  that Miss Ls accounts  shouldnt have been sold to L and also accepted  that 
they hadnt made L aware of the need for an annual review.  In order  to put this right,  they 
recalled the accounts  from L and paid compensation of £300  to each of the accounts (so, a 
total of £900). 
But, Creation say Miss H hasnt provided the information they need to allow them  to assess  
the reduced settlement offer and its fairness. So they think theyve acted reasonably  and 
within their rights in not accepting Miss Hs offer. And even if they do accept a reduced 
figure, they say they would still need  to show how the accounts have been managed so the 
credit file would  need  to show a partial settlement in that situation.
Miss H wasnt  happy with Creations offer. She says that Creation had originally rejected her 
complaint and only looked at it again  when she pursued it further. This all happened at a 
very distressing time and has caused Miss H a great deal of stress and upset. She says that 
Creation should  now write  off all three  accounts,  confirm that the accounts  wont be noted on 
her credit file and pay her compensation  for the distress caused to her by Creations 
handling of the accounts and their delay in responding to her complaint.
Our investigator thought that Creation had acknowledged their mistake  in selling the 
accounts to L and that their offer of compensation was fair. He thought  it was reasonable for 
them to expect Miss H to provide information  that allows them  to fully understand her 
personal situation. So, they were  fair to reject her offer of a reduced settlement until that 
information had been provided.  He also explained  that, as the accounts remain  open, they 
will show  on Miss Hs credit file and that Creation has an obligation to record  accurate 
information about the accounts.
Miss H didnt accept our investigators findings.  She didnt think  the compensation offered 
was enough in the circumstances here and didnt  reflect the impact the situation has had on 
her. So, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN75723742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Firstly, Im aware  that Creation have already agreed the accounts shouldnt  have  been  sold 
to L and theyve credited each of Miss Hs accounts £300 to recognise this. So, this error 
isnt in dispute. But, Miss H doesnt  think the offer Creation made  is enough to compensate 
her for the trouble  and upset this caused  her so Ive focused on whether I think  it does.
Im aware that Miss H was going  through a difficult time when her accounts  were sold.  I dont  
doubt that Miss H was handling some difficult personal situations which in turn impacted her 
health. So, I do think Creation making  this error wouldve added  to her distress.
While I cant consider Ls actions during the time they managed  the accounts, I do think  Miss 
H has had to endure unnecessary stress  by having  to take action to bring  the accounts back 
to Creation. This is something she shouldnt have  needed to do. 
Ive seen that Creation did resume usual collection activity after the accounts were initially  
transferred back to them. But, as the accounts  were  brought back  from L, a new repayment 
plan needed  to be agreed with Miss H. That said, had Creation not sold the accounts 
incorrectly, a new plan wouldnt  have  needed to be agreed. So again, I think their error has 
impacted Miss H negatively and added to her frustrations.
Miss H has said she put forward a reduced settlement offer to Creation in an attempt to 
prevent any further  stress arising from the accounts. So, Ive also taken this aspect into 
account when  considering  the offer Creation has already made.
Ive seen Creation  explained they wont accept this offer without medical documentation that 
allows them  to fully understand Miss Hs current situation. Miss H thinks  this is an 
unreasonable request and that Creation  should  be able to accept this offer based on her 
financial information alone, which she says other lenders have done. 
While I understand Miss H is reluctant to provide the medical information due to its sensitive 
nature and the effort it would take, I dont  think this is an unreasonable request for Creation 
to make.  I think its important to note that Creation didnt say an offer wouldnt be considered 
but instead gave Miss H an opportunity  to provide  more information to explain why this offer 
should be accepted.
I appreciate Miss H has taken steps  to offer an amount she feels is affordable in order to 
show her willingness to settle the accounts as best she can. But, Miss H has benefitted from 
the lending she received  from Creation. So, I think Creation are entitled  to ask for 
information they feel they need to make  a decision as they would be writing off a significant 
amount that is owing.  So, I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask for medical  
information to satisfy themselves that Miss Hs health will prevent her from being able to 
repay the full outstanding amount.
Ref: DRN75723743I also understand Miss Hs frustration  as other lenders have accepted her offers on financial 
information alone. But, there  isnt a set process  any lender needs to follow  so it would be 
unfair for me to decide Creation have  acted unreasonably as they are able to make  their own 
business decision on reduced settlement offers, and what they need to consider.  Creation  
have maintained that they would be willing to consider  a reduced settlement figure if medical  
information is provided and theyve also confirmed  none has yet been received. 
So, while I recognise  the frustration Miss H has experienced by not being  able to agree a 
reduced settlement  figure for the accounts as it leaves her with a debt outstanding,  I dont 
think this because of anything Creation has done wrong.
As a settlement  hasnt been agreed,  Creation  are obligated to continue to report the way the 
account is being managed. So, I dont think theyve done anything  wrong  by continuing  to 
record this against  Miss Hs credit file. Im aware Miss Hs comments about whether the 
account has been defaulted is being handle as a separate  complaint by this office  so I wont  
comment on that further.
Because of this, I think the £900  Creation  have  offered Miss H to recognise their error  when 
selling accounts  to L is a reasonable  one. Im aware  Miss H hasnt received this payment 
directly and its instead been used  to credit her three  accounts.  But, I think  this was a fair 
way for Creation  to make the payment. Crediting the accounts has helped  to reduce Miss 
Hs debt and Miss H has made  it clear  this is what she wants to do by asking for a reduced 
settlement.
I think this amount takes into account  the error  and the stress it caused Miss H when she 
had to raise complaints for it to be brought back as well. It also recognises the upset caused 
by Creations collection activity when attempting to arrange a new payment plan.  It also 
accounts for the difficulties Miss H was experiencing in her personal life and the subsequent 
impact on her health, which I think Creation were aware of at the time.
As I dont think Creation  were unreasonable to request supporting medical  information,  
unfortunately I dont  think any upset  Miss H has been caused  by this should  be included  in 
any offer of compensation. So, after considering the circumstances carefully,  I dont think  
Creation need  to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint about Creation Financial 
Services Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 24 February  2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7572374