K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured commercial loan facility  held with Lloyds Bank  PLC. 
The loan was taken  out jointly, by Ms T and a limited company Ill refer to as B. The loan is 
secured by a legal charge  given  by Ms T and B over a jointly-owned bed and breakfast 
(B&B) property. The B&B is also home  to Ms T and her family. 
Ms T started  this complaint because, after B went into liquidation, Lloyds called in the loan; 
she believes  its treated  her unfairly  and hasnt giving her enough  time to find a solution to 
avoid losing her home  and business. Ms T is represented here by her partner, Mr M; latterly,  
Mr W, the liquidator of B, has joined  the complaint.  
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own words and rounding some of the figures  involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. One reason I have 
left out a lot of the detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms T when my decision is 
published.
As I indicated in the opening section, this complaint  was triggered by B going into liquidation, 
in March 2018. In addition  to the joint loan with Ms T, B had further debts to Lloyds also 
secured by legal  charges over the B&B property. Lloyds issued a formal demand  for the joint 
loan, the balance of which stood at around  £192,000. In April 2018, it gave Ms T six months 
grace to try and sell the B&B.  When no sale was achieved,  the grace period was extended to 
the end of January 2019.
In the meantime, Ms T had begun negotiating a possible  deal with the liquidator  to buy out 
Bs interest  in the property and repay the joint debt. A provisional deal was reached,  since 
when Ms T, aided by Mr M, has been  trying  to secure the finance  needed to fund it. She 
started the complaint with us in May 2019 after Lloyds  indicated it would expect vacant 
possession of the B&B if a sale or refinance  wasnt achieved by 1 June 2019.
Whilst the case has been with us, Lloyds  has held all of its recovery action options in 
abeyance. Ms T and Mr M have pursued several  avenues for possible sources of funds, thus 
far without  success.
Our investigator issued  his informal assessment  of the complaint in March of this year.  The 
main thrust of his findings  was that Lloyds had been within its rights to call in the loan (the 
liquidation of B amounted to a default event under the terms of the loan)  and that it had 
given Ms T plenty of time to either sell or refinance.
Ref: DRN74537572Ms T asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  and it was referred  to me. 
On reviewing the case, it became obvious to me that Mr W, as Bs liquidator, was an eligible 
complainant alongside Ms T, and likely to have an interest in the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr W confirmed  that interest, and agreed  to join in the complaint. That entitled  Mr W to see a 
copy of the investigators  informal  assessment and respond to it if he wished. Mr W has told 
us he has no comments to make.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of borrowers abusing  our service by making  complaints 
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion,  and where it is 
necessary for all eligible complainants to join in bringing the complaint. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  to me that a useful starting  point is that although secured on premises  that are 
home to one of the debtors, the debt at the heart of this complaint is not a residential  
mortgage regulated  by the Mortgage and Home Finance Conduct of Business rules,  known  
as MCOB. Its a commercial lending facility, and not subject to regulation.  Thats not to say 
Lloyds doesnt  have an obligation  to treats  its customers fairly, but where,  as here,  they are 
business customers, the test is less onerous.
Wed expect a lender  to consider offering help to borrowers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.  
The difficulty  here is that the borrowers situation has been anything but temporary; one of 
the borrowers is a limited  company that has ceased trading and is in liquidation. The 
pressure to find a solution must be immense for Ms T in particular, as its not just her 
business thats at stake, but her home  as well. Im not unsympathetic  towards  her in that 
regard. But my impartiality means  I must also have regard for Lloyds point of view.  
By the time our investigator  had issued his informal assessment,  Lloyds had already allowed 
Ms T two years to either sell or refinance the B&B in order to settle the joint debt to Lloyds. 
Ref: DRN74537573By any reasonable assessment,  its apparent  to me that Lloyds has shown remarkable 
patience and lenience  towards Ms T; its not obliged  to do so indefinitely.  
Im aware that since then,  the financial world, like every other part of general life, has been 
disrupted, and Ill return to that in due course. But it isnt appropriate for me to form my own 
judgement on what  an affordable  and/or  viable  plan should be, and impose it on Lloyds (or 
on Ms T and/or Mr W for that matter). That is, and must always  remain, for Lloyds 
commercial judgement to decide. 
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be inequitable and 
inappropriate for me to remove that right from Lloyds in a final decision on a complaint, 
regardless of the borrowers wider  situation.  
That brings me to the situation as it stands now. There are new circumstances in play as a 
result of the unprecedented  effects of the worldwide pandemic, and lenders have been given 
fresh guidance by the regulator  on how to respond  fairly to the current situations their 
borrowers present  them with. As I said earlier, mortgage regulation doesnt apply here, but 
the requirement for fair treatment does.
My decision  here has not considered what is happening now; it has only considered  what 
happened up to March 2020, when  Ms T asked  for the complaint brought  in May 2019 to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. It doesnt  preclude  Ms T and/or Mr W from bringing another  
complaint in future about how theyve been treated more  recently.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Lloyds Bank  PLC. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7453757