K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one open  ended credit facility and twenty-three high-cost short term 
credit loans that Sunny provided  to Mr M from November 2014 onwards. Mr Ms last loan 
was provided in May 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought he shouldnt have been provided  with 
instalment loans 4 to 15 and 19 to 23. Sunny  didnt  agree with our adjudicators assessment. 
So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, I think that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Mr M was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided instalment loans 4 to 15 and 19 to 23. 
I say this because  at this time it ought  to have been apparent  to Sunny that Mr M was 
exhibiting a borrowing  pattern of taking  out further  loans  not too long after repaying  previous 
Ref: DRN78060562ones. And some of them were even provided  when  Mr M already had an outstanding 
balance on an existing  loan. Sunny  continued lending  to Mr M even when this pattern  was 
repeated and in circumstances where  it ought  reasonably to have realised  that any further  
loans were more likely than not unsustainable  for him. 
Mr M had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided  him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on instalment loans 4 to 15 and instalment 
loan 19;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all interest fees and charges applied to instalment loans 20 to 23 from the 
outset. Sunny can then deduct  any remaining balance  from what it now needs to pay 
Mr M in compensation;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ms credit file for instalment  loans  4 
and 5.
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about instalment 
loans to 6 to 15 and 19 to 23 on Mr Ms credit file is likely to be adverse.  So all 
reference to these loans should  be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7806056