K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) because it sent him estimates for cover 
which he thinks may not have been  based on actually available  premium costs.
background
Mr D got marketing information from BOS regarding home insurance cover. This said that, 
based on a few assumptions, cover could  be provided at a cost of £191.27 but, if he was 
interested, Mr D would need to call it for a personalised  quote.  When  Mr D called it, he was 
taken through  a formal quote  process which generated cover with a premium in excess of 
£1,000. Mr D felt BOS had misled  him into calling it; that the estimated premium  couldnt 
have been genuine and he complained.
BOS said it was sorry that the estimate  had made Mr D unhappy  and explained that it hadnt 
taken account  of Mr Ds full insurance  details (which had been done during the personalised 
quote process). It said it wasnt willing to refund  the cost of the call Mr D had made  to it to 
obtain the personalised quote. 
When Mr D complained to this service BOS  said it thought we should dismiss the matter on 
the grounds it was frivolous and vexatious. Our adjudicator said it was neither frivolous nor 
vexatious and BOS submitted its file.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ds complaint. He didnt think  it should be upheld. He felt the 
marketing information  had clearly set out it was an estimate and he explained that BOS 
didnt need to explain the basis for its pricing,  which is commercially  sensitive  data. He 
understood why Mr D had been upset but also noted  that BOS  had apologised.  He didnt 
think it needed to do anything more.
Mr D said that our adjudicator hadnt answered  or properly investigated his concern that 
BOS hadnt created a genuine estimate  and had, in fact, issued misleading marketing 
information designed to dupe  potential customers into contacting it. He said it was incorrect  
to say any data to do with this estimate  was likely to be commercially sensitive as, if the 
quote was genuine, the price would only relate to his property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to BOSs marketing  information, Mr D was a potential customer of it. And he has 
concerns about  the data he was sent.  Those  concerns  are neither frivolous  nor vexatious in 
my view. But, and whilst I can understand  why Mr D is unhappy, I dont think  BOS  did 
anything wrong.
Im not the regulator so I cant look into BOSs general business processes. What  I can do is 
look at what happened  in respect of Mr D; the data he was sent and whether I think  BOS  set 
out to mislead  him. I dont think it did.
Different insurers have different rating  factors for cover. And where similar  factors are 
considered by insurers the individual insurers view on each, and how that affects cover,  
often varies. Therefore,  even where a query  over the pricing for an individual property is 
Ref: DRN77044572involved, the data in respect of that is considered to be commercially sensitive. Therefore, 
BOS doesnt need  to explain  to Mr D how its estimated premium cost was calculated.
Nor have  I asked BOS  to justify this. In this instance  Im not persuaded such  is necessary  
because I havent  seen anything to make  me think the price was likely unachievable. The 
pricing of insurance  cover  depends  on many different  things. A basic  estimate of price might  
be generated with certain assumptions being set  as seems to have been the case  with the 
estimate Mr D was sent. But when Mr D spoke to BOS it asked him many more  questions 
about things relevant to its actual price for cover. During the call it was also established that 
many of the assumptions  it had made in generating the estimated premium  were incorrect.  
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that the estimated price was likely set 
without any basis and set low so as to entice Mr D to call. It was a price  that was never going 
to be available  to him  but Im not convinced that BOS should have known that when 
contacting him. Rather BOS treated Mr D the same  as its other potential customers  by 
offering an estimate  for cover based on what knowledge it had in respect of some  general 
insurance markers and inviting him to call if he wanted to go through a formal  personalised 
quote. Mr D chose to call it to do so and whilst its unfortunate that he was disappointed with 
the outcome of that call, I dont think that upset was due to any failure of BOS.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7704457