K820x#14complaint
Mrs B doesnt think AXA France IARD  (AXA) has offered her fair compensation in response  
to a complaint  about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a store card in February 1995.
In January 2019, Mrs B contacted AXA to say the PPI policy was mis-sold.  AXA agreed and 
offered to refund the extra shed  paid for PPI (including interest). It also offered to pay simple 
interest (at 8% per year) for any periods when she was out of pocket.  In total, it offered to 
pay her £940.61 (after tax).
Mrs B doesnt think this is enough.  She thinks she paid more  for PPI. And Mrs B says other 
people have received a lot more from AXA in PPI compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA knows  how much  Mrs B was charged  in PPI premiums over the life of her account. It 
has sent us screenshots of its internal records, which show  she was charged £250.72 for 
PPI. It also knows  how much  she spent and how much interest she was charged over the life 
of her account. 
But it doesnt have  more precise data than this. 
So it has had to make  some assumptions about  how much Mrs B was charged  for PPI each 
month, knowing that, in total, she was charged  £250.72. In this case, it has assumed Mrs Bs 
account balance  increased steadily and that the PPI premiums charged each month 
reflected this. In the absence of more  accurate  statement data, I think this is fair. 
It has then used what it knows  about  the total amount Mrs B spent and the total amount she 
was charged in interest to work out how much extra she might have paid in interest because 
of PPI. It knows  Mrs B was charged  £636.34  in interest  over the life of the account. And AXA 
has offered to refund £247.70 of this. I think its unlikely that £250.72  in PPI premiums was 
responsible for approximately 40% of all the interest Mrs B ever paid when her known spend 
over the life of the account was almost £5,000. So I think this element of AXAs offer is more 
than fair.
As well as refunding  the PPI premiums  (£250.72) and the interest  Ive mentioned  above  
(£247.70), AXA has offered Mrs B £442.19  (after  tax) in simple  interest  to compensate  her 
for being out of pocket. It has calculated this in the way Id expect.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied AXAs offer reflects the amount  Mrs B paid for PPI.
Ref: DRN73905032my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think AXA France IARD has offered  Mrs B fair 
compensation. If its already paid her, it doesnt  need to do anything. If it hasnt, it should  pay 
her the amount its offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390503