K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France  IARD (AXA) has accepted  
responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
background
Mrs K took out a hire purchase agreement in February 1998. At the same time she was sold 
a PPI policy. 
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs K 12% of her monthly repayment which was £13.34 per month. It 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit  equivalent to the monthly repayment if Mrs K was unable  to 
work due to ill-health,  an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either     
Mrs K returned to work  or for up to 12 months. During the time the policy was active  on     
Mrs Ks account she was charged £101.52 in PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld.
Mrs K didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have  happened,  taking  into account the evidence available,  what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make  it clear to Mrs K that the PPI was optional. 
Mrs K applied for the hire purchase  at a store, the credit was used to buy electrical goods.
 
AXA has shown us a copy of the original  hire purchase application form. I can see that the 
credit agreement has been printed and includes Mrs Ks name, address and telephone 
numbers. So I think it must have been  completed  during a conversation with a member  of 
staff at the store, before being  printed and passed  to Mrs K to check and sign.
I can see there is a section headed,  Protection  For Your Repayments.  This section 
contains a box beside the statement, Yes, I want my account covered by Payment  
Protection Insurance. I can see the box has been  marked with a printed cross. I think it is 
likely the box was ticked following a discussion  with the member of staff at the store.
Ref: DRN74386662After taking everything into account I think AXA most  likely  made  it clear  that Mrs K didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this after more than 20 years.
  
I dont think AXA advised Mrs K to take the policy out. So, it didnt have  to take steps  to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Mrs K clear information  so 
that she could  make a choice about whether or not to take the policy  out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it 
doesnt look like the cost was made clear. But thats  not enough to uphold this complaint.       
I next need to decide whether or not Mrs K would have changed her mind  about buying the 
policy if she had been given better  or clearer information. I cant  say she would have done.    
I say this because.
Mrs K was eligible  for the PPI based on her circumstances  at the time of the sale.    
So shed  have  been able to make  a claim if she needed to.
If Mrs K couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve covered her monthly 
repayment every month for up to 12 months.  And it wouldve paid the same benefit  if 
Mrs K lost her job. 
 
Mrs K has said her employer wouldve paid her sick pay if she couldnt  work. But the 
policy would pay any benefit  in addition to her sick pay. And potentially for longer 
than her full sick pay would last. From  the application form I think  Mrs K was 
interested in the cover  it provided. So, I still think Mrs K wouldve found the policy 
useful if things went wrong.
The policy had some exclusions  and restrictive terms. But Mrs K wasnt affected  by 
these. For instance, Mrs K has told us she didnt  have  any medical conditions at the 
time of the sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything  into account I think its likely Mrs K was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose  to add it to her account.  And I think that even if Mrs K had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead  and bought it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint against  AXA France  IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7438666