K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as aquacard, will not refund unauthorised 
payments.
background
On 15 December 2017, Mr A went abroad  and returned on 18 December 2017. He took 
cash and his aqua credit  card with him. He used his card to pay for flights, hotel 
accommodation and restaurant. When he returned to the UK, Mr A contacted aqua as a 
result of them informing  him that he had gone  over his credit  limit.
Mr A told aqua that was not right; there were two significant payments which  he did not 
recognise at all. There were also other smaller payments, which together  with the applicable 
exchange rate charges took him over his credit limit. They all occurred on 17 December 
2017 and thinking about it, Mr A said he had not used his card at all on that day.
The particular payments in question were:
Date Time Location Amount
17/12/2017 03:23 (07:23)  (09:23) Grocery Store £54.42
17/12/2017 03:43 (07:43)  (09:43) Clothing Store £1,250.97
17/12/2017 05:58 (09:58)  (11:58) Telecoms Store £1,037.52
17/12/2017 ? ATM cash  withdrawal £27.16
£2,370.07
 
Aqua considered Mr As claim and complaint but could see from their records  that Mr As 
card had been used,  the chip in it read and the correct PIN used. They  thought, therefore, 
that Mr A must have authorised the payments in some way, so they refused to refund him.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. He thought that perhaps  his card had been  
cloned, or the hotel had managed to do something  to his card; as far as he was aware  the 
card had never been out of his possession.
The investigator looking into the complaint considered the relevant regulations  carefully and 
noted that the use of card and PIN alone  is insufficient to demonstrate card user 
authorisation.
The investigator found out more  about  Mr As trip abroad and concluded  there was 
opportunity for someone to have  taken and replace Mr As card without him noticing.  Further, 
this person would  also have  had opportunity to observe the correct  PIN. The investigator 
concluded that the payments were  unauthorised  and, therefore, he was entitled to a refund 
from aqua, plus a payment  of £200 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience to him.
Aqua did not agree  with that assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN79376292my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the investigator reached a fair and reasonable conclusion and I, too, 
think the payments  should be refunded.
I appreciate that at first blush, aqua,  understandably, thought that the payments were  
authorised by their cardholding  customer. I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence 
that Mr As genuine card and PIN were used to make the disputed  transactions. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable aqua  to hold 
him liable. 
Generally, aqua  can hold Mr A liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. So it was necessary 
for aqua to consider the wider scenario to assess that.
It would appear that the larger payments were out of character  and took Mr A to the brink of 
his limit; a limit he had been well within even with the trip abroad.  So, on the face of it, 
something was at odds  with Mr As pattern and warranted further inquiry. The two large  
payments were very specific, but I have  no information  obtained from aqua  about them  or 
the merchant, which  would have helped to shed some light on them.
Mr A explained that he was staying with someone  at the hotel, he took them  out and was 
with them  except when  they would go out to run their own errands. On the day in question, 
he awoke, was on the phone and went out to a meeting  at about 10am. He said he had no 
need of the card on the 17th and returned to the hotel later. I find that credible. I consider that 
Mr A appears to have  chosen his travel  company,  hotel and restaurant carefully and I have 
not seen any evidence to cast doubt  on his testimony. 
Having found  that the real card was used, this means I have  to consider how the card was 
obtained, used  and returned to Mr A. I note that the timings of the payments are not as clear  
as they first appeared. The technical  data shows one time, but the processing takes place in 
a different time zone and the actual time zone in which the payments took place  was 
different again.
Aqua did not dispute the investigators assessment that payments took place at the later 
times. I accept that those  are the relevant  times and I note that accords with the times Mr A 
was getting ready to go out and then was at a meeting. I am afraid, therefore, that there  is a 
real possibility, which I cannot rule out, that the person staying with Mr A had the opportunity 
and time to take his card, shop and then return the card later.
I have considered whether Mr A would have  given permission for that  and thereby consent 
to the payments  but I do not think that was the case. As I have already said,  the payments 
appear to be out of character. The use of the card was aiming at the limit and the 
expenditure appears reckless as to the ancillary  payments, which  would take the balance 
over the limit. I do not think Mr A consented to that.
Taking these things together, I think it more likely than not that Mr A did not authorise  these  
transactions. I think the fair and reasonable outcome  is that aqua re-work the account  as 
Ref: DRN79376293though the payments had not taken place, which includes removing any adverse data 
recorded with any external  agencies.
Given the obvious distress and inconvenience to Mr A, I think a payment of £200 in 
acknowledgment of that is also fair and reasonable.
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint  I require  NewDay  Ltd, trading as aquacard, within  4 weeks  of 
confirmation that Mr A accepts the settlement, to:
a)Re-work the credit card account to reflect that the payments totalling  £2,370.07 had 
not been made, including refunding any fees, charges and interest referable to the 
payments;
b)Remove any default and/or any other  adverse data recorded with external agencies  
as a result of the payments;  and
c)Pay Mr A £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7937629