K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Miles Smith Limited  failed  to send her a copy of her property owners 
insurance policy terms and conditions which she believes led to the insurer  declining her 
malicious damage claim. 
background
Mrs J is the landlord of a couple of properties she rents out to tenants.  She arranged  
property insurance  for them through Miles Smith,  a broker,  and employed  a letting agency to 
manage the properties on her behalf.  Unbeknown to Mrs J the tenant of one of her 
properties was using it as a cannabis  farm. Damage  was caused to the property and Mrs J 
made a malicious  damage claim under her policy in January  2019.  
The insurer  appointed a loss adjuster to validate  the claim  but subsequently declined  it on 
the grounds she hadnt complied with the relevant  policy  conditions   principally associated 
with the vetting and checking of the tenant  - relevant to the cover  for malicious damage.  
Following the rejection  of her claim by the insurer, Mrs J complained  to Miles Smith. She 
said itd never sent her a copy of the policy document  so she was unaware of the conditions  
she needed to comply with and which the insurer had relied on to reject her claim. Mrs J said 
that Miles Smith was to blame for her claim being  rejected.  
Miles Smith  looked into Mrs Js complaint.  It said it was unable to prove that the policy  
document was ever sent to her and in order to compensate her for its omission it proposed  
refunding her the cost of current premium.  But it didnt accept that the rejection of her claim 
by the insurer  was the result of that particular error.  Mrs J disagreed  with Miles Smiths 
findings and she said her claim hadnt been paid yet her premium had been doubled. 
Miles Smith  looked at the complaint again and said the setting of the premium  was the 
responsibility of the insurer and it had nothing to do with that. It said there  were  clear signs  
Mrs Js tenant may not be reliable  or trustworthy such that a prudent landlord wouldnt have 
let their property based on the limited information  available. It said the insurers  conditions 
merely reflected good landlord  practice  which, had she acted accordingly, wouldve  led to 
the tenant being rejected  and the malicious  damage avoided. 
Unhappy with Miles Smiths findings,  Mrs J complained to this service.  Our investigator 
looked into her complaint  but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He thought  that even if 
Miles Smith  had been able to show  that it had sent the policy document  to Mrs J it wouldnt 
have made  a difference to her claim.  He said that shed engaged a letting agent to manage 
her properties (including the carrying out of checks on tenants) and, having contacted the 
agent she used,  he didnt think the checks it undertook  wouldve been  sufficient to comply 
with the conditions on the policy even  if Mrs J had been in possession  of the policy  
document. So, he didnt think it would make  a difference to her claim. 
Mrs J asked for her complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any further upset this will 
cause to Mrs J, I dont  think her complaint can reasonably be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN78622092Miles Smith  has accepted it cant prove that it sent Mrs J the policy document containing the 
terms and conditions. And whilst its not unreasonable to think that as a commercial landlord 
Mrs J should perhaps  have chased  for the policy document when she didnt  receive one, 
Miles Smith  accepts that it made an error.  Where  thats the case, and it leads to a complaint 
being made, this service  then looks at what the insurer wouldve done  (with the claim) if the 
mistake hadnt happened.  So, in order to uphold Mrs Js complaint, Id have to be satisfied 
that if Miles Smith had sent the policy document to her it would most likely have meant shed 
have complied with the conditions  that applied to the malicious  damage cover  (and her claim 
wouldve succeeded).  
Those conditions are well known to the parties  so I see no value in setting them  out again 
here. Ive reviewed them and Im satisfied that, at the very least, the majority of them are 
pretty standard to this type of policy and cant  be said to be onerous or unusual. One of the 
terms requires Mrs J/the letting agent  to carry out an inspection of the property  every  six 
months and to keep  a record  of it. In the statement of fact, Mrs J was asked, Is the property  
inspected and/or repaired a minimum of every six months? to which she answered no.
But whilst Mrs J had made Miles Smith  aware that the property wasnt  inspected every  six 
months, and whilst it was a condition of the policy it sold her that it was, there were/are 
several other  conditions  in the policy that needed to be satisfied in order  for a malicious 
damage claim to succeed. And these werent met. 
Unfortunately for Mrs J, I dont  think  the other conditions  wouldve been met even had she 
received a copy of the policy document. Thats because Mrs J had engaged  the services  of a 
letting agent to manage the property, and part of its job was to vet and check the tenants. 
Having considered the checks it did undertake, Im not persuaded they were sufficient to 
comply with the conditions on the policy. I note that one of the conditions  was that details of 
the tenants bank account be obtained  and be verified by obtaining at least one payment  
from that account. However,  this wasnt done. Similarly, the requirement that a written 
employers reference  be obtained also hadnt  been  complied with.
And whilst Mrs J had made Miles Smith aware that inspections werent carried out, even if it 
had found her a different policy where this wasnt a requirement, I think the other conditions 
would likely  have been present. So, based on the fact Mrs J had appointed a letting agent, 
thereby delegating the task of checking her tenants  out, and on the checks  the agent said it 
undertook, I cant reasonably say that, even  had she had a copy of the policy  document, she 
wouldve done anything  differently that wouldve altered the outcome of her claim. For 
example, if Mrs J had been sent a copy of the policy document,  Ive seen no evidence  that 
she wouldve dispensed with the services of the particular letting agent she had engaged  
and/or engaged the services of another that might  have conducted more stringent checks  on 
prospective tenants.
So, whilst Miles Smith accepts it didnt send  Mrs J a copy of the policy document, I dont 
think the fact it didnt caused her to lose out. For the reasons Ive given, I dont think I can 
reasonably say that if the document had been in Mrs Js possession the outcome of her 
claim wouldve been any different. I think that the refund of her annual premium that Miles 
Smith made  to Mrs J in acknowledgment  of its shortcomings is fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances. Indeed,  if Miles  Smith hadnt paid Mrs J such  an 
amount, Im unlikely to have recommended that it pay any more  than that.
Ref: DRN78622093I know Mrs J has expressed concern that Miles Smith didnt draw the special conditions that 
related to using  a letting agency to her attention; but there are no such conditions on the 
policy. I note Miles  Smith  confirmed this during one of the telephone calls it had with Mrs J. 
Ive seen no evidence  that Miles Smith provided  Mrs J with misleading  information during the 
calls she had with it about her claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7862209