K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Western Circle Limited (trading as Cashfloat)  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr M had three loans with Cashfloat.  Ive summarised some of the information Cashfloat  
provided about the loans  in the table below.
Loan  no. Amount Start date End date Instalments
1 £500 05/04/2017 25/07/2017 4 x £190
2 £500 27/07/2017 30/10/2017 4 x £201
3 £600 30/10/2017 07/01/2018 4 x £239
An adjudicator considered  Mr Ms case and his initial recommendation was that it should be 
upheld in respect of loans  2 and 3. Cashfloat  didnt accept this and provided some further 
information as well as an explanation of some of the credit check data it had provided. Our 
adjudicator then revised his view and recommended the complaint be upheld in respect of 
loan 3 only.
Cashfloat didnt  respond to the second view. Mr M did; he accepted  the adjudicators 
recommendation not to uphold the first loan but thought loans 2 and 3 were lent 
irresponsibly. As there was no agreement  and no response from Cashfloat, the case was 
passed to me to decide. As there  is no ongoing  disagreement regarding  loan 1, Ive not 
commented on that loan in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Cashfloat has provided some information  and evidence about the checks  it carried  out 
before lending to Mr M. For each  loan it asked Mr M about his income and expenditure (what 
Mr M declared is summarised in the table below) and also carried out credit checks.
IncomeOther 
incomeFood Travel UtilitiesLoan 
repaymentsOther 
creditRent  or
mortgage
£1,050 £675 £100 £25 £25 £150 £50 £300
Cashfloat also says it applied adjustments and increased some of the declared figures,  such  
as the utilities  figures,  to take account  of national averages.
Ref: DRN78048032I think the sort of checks Cashfloat carried out for loan 2 were  proportionate. Cashfloats 
credit checks did suggest Mr Ms credit commitments were higher than hed declared and 
also revealed hed had a relatively  high number of short-term loans from other lender in the 
12 months before loan 2. But I think taking into account the information it had, including both 
that provided by Mr M and the information  from the credit bureau,  was proportionate in all 
the circumstances which were relevant at the time.
I can understand why Mr M disagrees  with this. He questions why Cashfloat  didnt carry out 
further checks given  that he borrowed £500  again so soon after repaying loan 1, despite  
Cashfloat having estimated he had similar levels of disposable income. He also thinks  the 
disparity between  his declared  credit commitments  and those Cashfloat discovered  via its 
credit search ought to have led to further investigation. Additionally, he doesnt think it was 
right for Cashfloat to rely solely on data from one credit bureau  as this didnt fully reflect  his 
financial situation, nor did it pick up on debts not reported to that particular  credit  bureau.
I dont think any of these  points, even when taken  together, are sufficient for me to 
reasonably say Cashfloat acted irresponsibly by providing loan 2. There was no regulatory  
requirement for Cashfloat to carry out a credit check and if it did, there was no rule to say it 
had to carry out credit checks with any particular bureau, or to do so in any particular way. 
And I dont  think Cashfloat  acted  unreasonably  by relying on a combination of information  
provided by Mr M and information it sourced  independently. I also dont think one instance of 
reborrowing soon  after repaying a loan ought  to have prompted the sort of in-depth 
affordability checks (like asking for proof of income  and expenditure, such as bank 
statements) which would  have been  necessary to show  loan 2 was likely to be unaffordable. 
I also dont the number of loans Mr M had from other lenders ought  to have prompted that 
level of checks at this stage.
But for loan 3, I think it was much  clearer, from the information Cashfloat obtained before 
lending, that Mr M had an amount of outstanding short-term debt which  was so significant 
that he was unlikely to have been able to repay loan 3 in a sustainable manner. The credit  
report also suggests Mr M wasnt simply using the loans to meet unexpected expenses or 
cashflow problems but that there was likely some other kind of underlying issue. So Im 
upholding the complaint  about loan 3.
Id add, although it makes  no difference at this point to the outcome, that I dont agree with 
the adjudicator  that Cashfloats  affordability  checks were proportionate  for loan 3. Mr M 
made the same declarations for his credit commitments when  applying  for each loan  but 
Cashfloats checks suggested Mr Ms credit commitments were very different, especially for 
loan 3. So I do think Cashfloats checks shouldve gone further, including  asking Mr M for 
some form of proof of income and expenditure. Had Cashfloat done this, I think  it wouldve 
seen that Mr Ms financial position  was even  worse than its own checks suggested. Ive seen 
evidence that Mr M had even greater  levels  of debt than Cashfloats credit checks  detected 
and Ive also seen  evidence of significant  expenditure on gambling. So had Cashfloat carried  
out more detailed checks, it again  wouldve seen that Mr M wasnt in a position to repay  loan 
3 in a sustainable manner.
putting things right
Cashfloat must refund the interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 3, adding interest at 8% 
simple per year, from when he paid the interest and charges, until the date of settlement. 
Cashfloat must also remove from Mr Ms credit  history  any adverse information it has 
recorded about loan 3.
Ref: DRN78048033 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat  must give 
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Western Circle Ltd must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7804803