K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about various  problems he had with credit cards he held with Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard).
background 
Between July and November 2018, Mr S was issued with four credit cards  by Barclaycard, 
for different reasons.  He complains that he never received two of the cards; all four cards  
were blocked; nearly three dozen  transactions  were declined; and he was given inaccurate 
information about what was happening.
Barclaycard accepted that it had made mistakes, and in three final response letters it offered 
Mr S a total of £500. Mr S was not satisfied, and so he brought this complaint to our Service. 
In March 2019, Barclaycard offered to pay Mr S another £200,  but our investigator thought  
that was not enough. She recommended £500 instead. But Mr S did not accept that opinion. 
He said the inconvenience caused to him was worth £73,400. So he asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will briefly summarise the history of each card. All four cards had a problem at one time or 
another. The original  card was issued in July 2018.  In September the account was closed, 
but was later re-opened, for reasons I will come  back to later. In late October, Barclaycard 
had concerns about fraud on that card, and so it decided to block  it and issue a replacement. 
But Barclaycard told Mr S that the first card would not be blocked until 5 November, so that 
he would  not be without a card while  he was waiting for the replacement  to arrive.  This was 
later extended to 5 December, because he lived overseas. Unfortunately, the second card 
was not successfully delivered, and meanwhile  the first card was blocked in mid-November, 
earlier than promised, and permanently this time. The third card was issued around the 
same time, but it was not successfully delivered  either, and it was blocked  after two weeks.  
The fourth card was issued at the end of November, and although it was not blocked, some 
transactions on that card were still declined only a few days  later.
Mr S had another bank account,  but he did not have  another  credit card account, and so 
these incidents  still caused him considerable inconvenience.
In July 2018, Barclaycard wrote to every  customer who had an overseas address, including  
Mr S, and said their accounts would  be closed, unless a residential  address in the UK was 
provided for the account. Mr S provided  a UK address, and the documents he sent were  
received by Barclaycard, but were  then lost. This left him unable to make  payments online, 
because the new address  he entered  did not match the old address which  was still 
registered. In September his account  was closed, and then re-opened when  he complained 
and the error  was identified. For that issue, and for some related customer-service issues  in 
connection with Barclaycards handling of Mr Ss complaints, Barclaycard paid him a total of 
£400.
Ref: DRN72485152At the time,  Mr S accepted that compensation as an end of the matter. He has brought this 
complaint to our Service only because  of subsequent developments. Our investigator 
declined to consider Mr Ss complaint  in so far as it related to the earlier matters (although 
she still took them into account in assessing the impact on him of the later matters).  But 
I have considered everything  Mr S has complained about, because I think he was entitled to 
change his mind  about  accepting the £400 once  things  began to go wrong again shortly 
afterwards.
Mr S has calculated  how much he says his complaint is worth (in total) based on the total 
number of hours he spent  on the phone to Barclaycard,  at a rate of £280 an hour for his 
time. However, that formula is far more  generous  than this Service would typically award, 
and it does not reflect what my colleagues and I would consider to be fair compensation. 
I think that £400 for the matters which were  covered by Barclaycards first and second final 
response letters is fair, and so I will not increase  it.
In late October Barclaycard had concerns about fraud on the card,  and so it decided to 
replace it with a new one. Issuing a new card automatically blocks  the old one, and so some  
more payments were  declined. I recognise  that this was inconvenient for Mr S, but I dont 
think it was an error.  Banks  have  a duty to protect  their customers  money, and their fraud 
prevention measures will sometimes affect  genuine  payments.  That cannot be helped, and 
I would not wish to write  a decision  which  might  discourage banks from trying to combat  
fraud. The account terms and conditions, which Ive read, clearly  say that Barclaycard may 
do this. So I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint about that. However, Barclaycard accepted  that 
its call handler had misinformed Mr S about the reason why his payments were declined, 
and so it paid him another £100. I think that is fair compensation for that.
Barclaycard also unblocked  the old card, and said it would  allow  Mr S to keep using that 
card until 5 December. Unfortunately, Mr S did not receive  the replacement  card,  and on 13 
November he reported it missing. Barclaycard therefore blocked  the account,  in case the 
new card had been stolen. That meant Mr S couldnt use the old card either, but nobody told 
him, so when he next tried to use it, it was declined. That was inconvenient and 
embarrassing. This is one of the issues for which Barclaycard and the investigator  thought  
further compensation was warranted.
The blocks  meant a third card had to be issued, and Mr S didnt receive that one either. So 
he was without a working  credit card until he received the fourth one, in early  December.
The second,  third and fourth cards were all sent to Mr Ss business  address overseas. 
However, the fourth one  the only one which reached him  was sent to a different 
postcode to the other two. That suggests  that the address the second and third cards  were 
sent to was wrong. Since that address was provided  to Barclaycard by Mr S (in his email  
dated 1 August), I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for those two cards going  missing.
Mr S had asked for the third card to be sent by courier, but it was sent in the post.  That is 
another error  for which Barclaycard has offered to pay further compensation. But if it was 
incorrectly addressed,  then it wouldnt have mattered whether it was sent by courier  or post. 
It wouldnt have been delivered either way. So I dont uphold his complaint about that.
Mr S told Barclaycard the correct address in an email in late November. The fourth card was 
couriered to that address,  and he received it. Barclaycard has said that there  was a delay in 
updating the address on the account to the new address, but I cant see that there was. The 
card was issued the day after Barclaycard was told the right address  for the first time.
Ref: DRN72485153Shortly after Mr S began using the fourth card, some payments  made  with that card were 
stopped. Barclaycard has explained that this was because its fraud monitoring systems 
stopped the transactions  until Mr S confirmed they were genuine. Again, for the reasons 
I have set out above, I dont consider that to be an error,  and so I dont uphold Mr Ss 
complaint about  that. Some more payments were declined a couple of weeks  later, but 
Barclaycard has no record of receiving notice of those transactions, and says that this must 
be because they were declined by the merchant. So I cant  hold Barclaycard liable for that.
So apart from the matters  for which Barclaycard has paid compensation already, the only 
additional matter  which I think merits compensation is failing to warn  him that the first card 
had been cancelled. I think that Barclaycards  offer of £200 for that is fair. That offer was 
also for two other issues which I havent upheld, but  taking  into account the history leading  
up to the declined transactions which resulted  I think that the full £200, rather than a 
fraction of that sum, is fair compensation for that.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr S was not satisfied  with my provisional decision,  but he accepted  it. Barclaycard 
accepted my provisional decision  without qualification. So since both parties have accepted 
my findings,  there is no reason for me to depart from them, and I confirm them  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I to order  Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(trading as Barclaycard)  to pay Mr S £200, in addition to the £500 it has paid him already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7248515