K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  Pepper (UK) Limited  has unfairly applied fees, charges and interest 
to their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out an interest  only mortgage  for around £225,000 in 2007.  In about 2008 
the lender decided to leave the UK mortgage  market and sold Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  to 
another business, (which Ill call the new lender), that wasnt  regulated  by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  To comply with FCA requirements for the sale to go ahead, the 
new lender appointed Pepper (UK) Limited,  (Pepper), to administer the loan on its behalf.
Pepper applied  fees, charges and interest to Mr and Mrs Ts account  which  they thought 
were unfair. Our investigator considered whether theyd been applied  to the account in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage. He thought they had, and he felt 
too that they were fair and reasonable.
Since Mr and Mrs T didnt agree, Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision 
about Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigators view and for similar reasons, as Ill explain.
When the lender  transferred Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage to the new lender, the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage stayed  the same.
Under the terms and conditions  Mr and Mrs T agreed to make  payments each month  by 
direct debit from an agreed current account.  If the direct debit was refused, the new lender  
or Pepper on its behalf - could charge a reasonable fee for each unsuccessful  request for 
payment. 
The terms and conditions  also allowed Pepper  to charge Mr and Mrs T the reasonable costs 
and expenses it incurred  in connection  with the mortgage. These  included  the costs of taking 
steps to recover the amount Mr and Mrs T owed under  the mortgage and administration  fees 
to cover its internal costs.  
The amount  of the fees and charges Pepper  could raise was set out in the lenders  tariff of 
charges from time to time. The lender agreed  to give Mr and Mrs T a copy  of the tariff at any 
time on request  and to send the tariff each  year if there had been any changes  to it. I have 
no reason to think Mr and Mrs T werent told about the tariff and any changes  that were  
made to it. And it was clear from the statements what  charges were raised and when, and 
the interest that had been added to the account as a result.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage contract allowed Pepper to charge interest  to any 
fees and charges that had been  added to the account as well as to any arrears that accrued. 
Ref: DRN72427402Under the rules  that govern what this service can and cant consider, Im able to consider the 
fees and charges Pepper added to Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage account from 26 May 2010 
onwards. I wont mention  them  all individually in this decision, but Id like to reassure the 
parties I have considered  them  all. They include unpaid direct debit fees, arrears 
management fees, legal costs and a home visit fee.
I think Pepper was entitled to charge the fees and charges they added to Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage and to charge interest  on them under the terms of the mortgage  contract.  But Mr 
and Mrs T say what theyve had to pay is unfair and Ive considered  that.
The available records show Pepper  was in regular contact with Mr and Mrs T from 2012 
onwards to discuss the arrears on their account and to help them manage it. Although I 
understand there arent any available records of Mr and Mrs Ts contact with Pepper  before 
March 2012, I think  its more likely than not that there was a similar level of contact before 
then given the difficulties Mr and Mrs T were  having in making payments.
I can see from their bank  statements Mr and Mrs T fell into arrears early  in the term of the 
mortgage. By January 2010 they had capitalised around £16,000 of arrears.  But, 
unfortunately, they fell behind with payments again soon afterwards. And by 26 May 2010 
the arrears were beginning to build up again.  
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy Pepper  wouldnt allow them  to capitalise arrears that built up 
later. But I dont think it was unfair that Pepper  wouldnt allow  that given it had already 
capitalised significant  arrears once and Mr and Mrs T had fallen into arrears shortly  
afterwards. I dont think capitalising  the arrears would have helped Mr and Mrs T out of their 
financial difficulties or improved their credit  rating  as theyve suggested.  Mr and Mrs T are 
concerned Pepper  charged interest on arrears  that hadnt been capitalised. But interest 
would have been charged on the arrears, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage, whether  or not they had been capitalised.
I can see Pepper raised a fee for instructing solicitors and paid some  solicitors costs  in April 
and June 2011 respectively. Mr and Mrs Ts arrears were around £4,680 at the time. I think it 
was reasonable  for Pepper to start action  to recover the arrears at the time, given over three  
months of arrears had built up and the way in which Mr and Mrs T had managed their 
mortgage account over the years. 
I think the unpaid  direct debit fees have all been fairly added  to Mr and Mrs Ts account. 
They have been applied  following  a failure  of the direct debit to make the monthly mortgage 
payment. I think Pepper had to do more work to administer the account than it would have 
had to if the direct debits  had gone  through. For example, when the direct  debit failed in 
March 2012, Mr T told Pepper hed cancelled the direct debit in error.  He said hed pay 
another way but didnt. And Pepper  had several exchanges with him to discuss  things and 
arrange payment.  
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Pepper  to raise the home visit fee in November 2012 
even though, as I understand it, a meeting  didnt  take place. Pepper had been trying  to 
understand Mr and Mrs Ts financial position to come to an arrangement  with them  to pay off 
their arrears.  Mr and Mrs T had been difficult  to get hold of and reluctant  to provide details of 
their income and expenditure. Pepper arranged for a letter to be delivered to their home 
asking them to make  contact. And it incurred an additional cost in doing so. 
Ref: DRN72427403I can see that Pepper has reversed several administration charges it had raised  following 
contact with Mr T, even though it had been  carrying out additional  administrative work  to 
help Mr and Mrs T manage their account.  It agreed payment arrangements  with Mr and Mrs 
T to help them repay the arrears over time,  as Id expect  it to. And Pepper didnt charge fees 
while Mr and Mrs T were  able to make payments in line with those arrangements. Overall,  I 
think Pepper has treated  Mr and Mrs T fairly. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts strength of feeling  about their complaint. Theyve paid a 
significant amount  of interest over the years and found it difficult to keep up payments. And 
the charges and interest on those have  increased what they owe. But, bearing everything  in 
mind, I think  the fees, charges and interest have been fairly applied  and Pepper has worked 
with them  to help them manage things. So, I dont uphold their complaint. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2020.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7242740