K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Miss R. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  Barclays sold Miss R the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss R and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided I dont have 
enough evidence  to show that the policy was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think Barclays made Miss R aware  that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it  
although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. The form which she signed  
has a tick against  the choice  for PPI. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Miss R has said she was self-employed and working 8 hours a week  at the time. If either of 
these is true, a recommendation might  have been  unsuitable. This is because  it would be 
difficult for her to make certain claims under the policy.  
However Miss R has not provided evidence to back up her recollection that she was self-
employed at the time; and what she has remembered has not always been consistent  
which isnt surprising given how long ago this all happened. 
The application form describes the kind of work Miss R was doing  at the time  and I agree 
this could have  been self-employed, but it could also have been directly employed.  The form 
names an employer  and has a tick against employed and not against self-employed. 
There is a tick against  the lowest bracket of annual earnings. But, at the minimum wage that 
applied at the time, this could still have been achieved  if Miss R was working  16 hours a 
week  and this would  count as full time for the purposes of the PPI.
So the written evidence supports that Miss R was directly employed,  rather  than self-
employed, and could have been working more than 16 hours  a week. So I cant say a 
recommendation was unsuitable on those grounds. 
The PPI could have  helped pay the credit  card bill for a period longer than any employer sick 
pay Miss Rs employer  might have got (although  she says she wasnt entitled to any). It 
Ref: DRN76082432would have paid if she became unemployed. And it appears she didnt have  savings to fall 
back on. So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. And I cant see any other reason why 
the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.  But I dont think, 
in her circumstances,  full information about  costs and benefits would have affected whether 
she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like shed have  been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Miss R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7608243