K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  them  packaged 
bank accounts.  They say they have  no recollection  of agreeing  to them  and didnt know  they 
were paying  for them. They also say that they were told they would be eligible for travel  
insurance, but later found out they werent  and that they werent presented  with the option  of 
a fee-free account.
background
Mr and Mrs Ds account history  is as follows:
Account opened  as a fee-free account  14 June 1991
Upgraded to fee-paying Select  account  since at least September 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account on 20 November 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  on 20 September 2010
Account changed  to a fee-paying Club Lloyds Premier account on 20 December 
2018 i.e. after they complained to Lloyds
Lloyds initially said that our service was unable to consider the complaint. One of our 
adjudicators concluded that our service could  consider the complaint and Lloyds agreed  with 
this. Lloyds then reviewed the complaint  again and upheld Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about 
the sale of the Select packaged account. But it didnt think that it had mis-sold the Platinum  
and Premier accounts. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that the Platinum and 
Premier accounts hadnt been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with this, so asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. 
As the Club Lloyds  Premier upgrade happened  after Mr and Mrs D had already complained 
to Lloyds, Ive not considered it in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we deal with 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into account 
when considering this complaint.
Select account
Lloyds has agreed  to uphold the Select  account and refund the account fees. Unfortunately  
Lloyds does not know when exactly the Select  account was sold to Mr and Mrs D, so it has 
agreed to refund the account  fees back to the mid-date between its earliest record  of Mr and 
Mrs D having the Select  account (September 2001) and when it first launched  the Select 
account (January  1997) - which was May 1999.  Lloyds will also pay 8% simple  interest  on 
those fees.
Having considered Lloydss offer, I think it is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN79203662Platinum and Premier accounts
Mr and Mrs D have said that they have no recollection of agreeing to the packaged 
accounts. But they have also said in our questionnaire that the accounts were recommended  
to them  during a meeting and that they were  told the travel  insurance provided with the 
account would be beneficial for them, but they later found out that their son was not covered 
so had to take out separate cover to cover him.
Looking at what Mr and Mrs D have said, they appear to contradict themselves as on the 
one hand they say they dont remember agreeing to the packaged accounts. But on the 
other hand, they distinctly recall being recommended  the account in branch and were told 
about the travel insurance. 
However, Lloyds has provided  an application  form for the Premier account, signed by Mr D. 
And it has provided a system record of its customer notes from when the Platinum account 
was sold. This says:
Overdraft of £2000  put back onto account  to help with Lull over Christmas with 
work.Overdraft which was on should  have dropped back to £2,000  but was taken off 
instead.Acc upgraded to Platinum to benefit  from annual travel cover and increased AA 
breakdown cover. Plat cards ordered 
So looking  at the evidence provided  by Lloyds Im satisfied that Mr and Mr D agreed to 
upgrade their account to a Premier account.  And I think  its likely that Mr or Mrs D had a 
conversation with Lloyds about their overdraft limit and that the Platinum  account  was sold to 
them following  a discussion about  the travel insurance and advanced breakdown cover 
benefits that it came with.
So taking everything into account, although Mr and Mrs D dont now recall agreeing to the 
packaged accounts, Im satisfied that they in all likelihood did agree to upgrade to the 
packaged accounts.
Lloyds recommended the accounts to Mr and Mrs D. This means it had to make sure the 
accounts were right for them.
At the time the Platinum  account cost £15 per month  and provided worldwide travel  
insurance (with the choice of family cover or winter sports cover), enhanced  levels  of 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance  and card protection. It also included a £250  
interest free overdraft  facility with reduced interest rates  (compared to free accounts) on 
balances overdrawn by more than this amount  amongst other benefits.
Looking at the notes that are available from the time of the sale,  Mr and Mrs D were clearly 
relying on their overdraft facility; were  driving; had mobile phones; and had a family and 
occasionally travelled abroad. Therefore I think that Mr and Mrs D had a need for many of 
the benefits that the Platinum account  offered. So I dont think  Lloyds recommendation  was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN79203663At the time the Premier account was sold, it cost £25 per month  and provided  worldwide  
travel insurance (including both family  cover  and winter sports cover), enhanced  levels  of 
breakdown cover (compared to the Platinum account), mobile phone insurance, Identity theft 
protection, home emergency cover and card protection.  It also offered a £500  interest  free 
overdraft facility, with preferential interest  rates  (compared  to the Platinum account) on 
balances overdrawn by more than that amount amongst other benefits.
Mr and Mrs D registered a number  of handsets under the mobile phone  insurance, claimed 
on the breakdown  cover.  And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs D were  unable to 
make use of the range of other features provided  by the Premier  account. So overall I cant 
reasonably conclude that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have recommended  the Premier 
account to Mr D.
As well as making sure the accounts  were right for Mr and Mrs D, Lloyds also had to give Mr 
and Mrs D important information  about the accounts so that they could make an informed 
decision whether  to agree to the upgrades.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the sales took place, I cant be sure what information 
was given to Mr and Mrs D. But the notes from the time suggest that at least some 
information about the account benefits and costs were discussed  with Mr or Mrs D at the 
time. And this is supported by Mr and Mrs D going  on to enquire  about or use some of the 
account benefits. 
Part of the important  information that Lloyds  had to make clear to Mr and Mrs D was that 
pre-existing medical conditions may not be covered and that theyd have to check with the 
insurer whether theyd be covered for them. And this forms a key part of Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint as they discovered that their sons condition wasnt  covered. So I have  looked  at 
the available  evidence to understand whether Lloyds did anything  wrong with regards to this 
issue. 
The Premier account application form indicates that Mr D was made  aware that medical 
conditions might not be covered during the sales process. And the fact that Mr and Mrs D 
later went  on to check with the insurer whether their sons condition would be covered 
suggests that were  made aware  that theyd need  to check with the insurer.
I understand why Mr and Mrs D feel that the travel insurance may not have been worthwhile 
if it didnt cover their sons medical condition.  But it was Lloyds responsibility to ensure Mr 
and Mrs D were  aware of what they needed to do to see if they would be covered for the 
condition. And I think that Lloyds did this. But the actual decision of whether to cover the 
condition or not was not for Lloyds to make  - it was for the travel  insurer to decide. 
So I dont  think it is reasonable to say that Lloyds was wrong  to have sold the packaged 
accounts to Mr and Mrs D, just because the insurer chose not to cover their sons condition. I 
say this particularly  as theres  nothing to suggest that Mr D made Lloyds aware  of his sons  
condition during the sale of either  the Platinum or Premier accounts. 
Ultimately, once Mr and Mrs D found  out that the travel insurer wouldnt cover their sons 
condition, it was up to them  to decide whether it was worth  keeping the Premier account for 
the remaining  benefits and cover, or whether  to downgrade it. And although Mr and Mrs D 
say they were not made aware  that fee-free  accounts were  available, I can see that theyve 
had fee-free accounts. So Im satisfied that they were generally aware they didnt have to 
have a packaged account if they didnt want one.
Ref: DRN79203664I appreciate that with the benefit  of hindsight, having  paid a large number of account fees 
over a number of years, they may now think that the packaged accounts have been poor 
value for money.  But that doesnt  mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold the packaged 
accounts to them when it did.   
Therefore, having  carefully weighed everything  up, I dont think that the Platinum or Premier  
packaged accounts were mis-sold. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require 
Lloyds to refund the accounts  fees that Mr and Mrs D have paid for them.
putting matters right  Select account
In accordance with Lloyds offer,  to put matters  right about the sale of the Select account 
Lloyds needs  to:
Refund Select account fees that were (or mayve been  charged) between May 1999  and 
when the account  was upgraded to the Platinum  account in November 2006; and
Pay 8% simple interest on those fees, calculated from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement,  less deductible  tax.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds must  give Mr and 
Mrs D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  think the Platinum and Premier accounts were 
mis-sold. 
But I do uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds  Bank  PLC to do what  I have set out 
above to put matters right with regards to the sale of the Select account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7920366