K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
Mrs D bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mrs D aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. This is based on what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI in 
1996, which required the customer to actively select PPI by ticking  a box on the credit 
card application  form. 
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs D, and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. She only had sick pay for 16 
weeks, and no other  way of keeping up with her repayments if she was off sick or 
made redundant. Whereas the PPI wouldve paid 10% of her credit card balance  for up 
to 12 months if shed made a successful claim. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs D doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7584800