complaint
Mr P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy in 1987  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr P applied for his mortgage and PPI policy but Mr P 
says he took it out at a meeting.
As the sale happened  so many years ago not all the paperwork from the time is available.  
Santander cant provide me with the full policy document from the time. Thats  not unusual  
as businesses arent required to keep its records indefinitely. However,  to help me decide 
Ive looked at policy terms from around  the time of the sale and I think its more likely these 
applied to policies  like Mr Ps.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £103.35 a month towards  Mr Ps mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £4.76 a month.
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a pelt grader. He has told us he was entitled  to at least  
three months full pay by way of redundancy if he lost his job, but he didnt have any other  
means of repaying  his mortgage should he be unable  to work. Mr P has said he was in good  
health at the time of the sale.
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2000. 
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ps representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
K820x#14
Ref: DRN7497120The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr P about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided  their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have  only included a summary  of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order to decide  what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1987 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about
s.140 of that Act and the rules  and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
Ref: DRN7497120The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after Santander sold Mr P PPI. Prior to this there were fewer requirements  on a business  
when selling  insurance such as this. But Santander  doesnt appear to have considered
Mr Ps complaint any differently  it seems  to me they have considered the sale of PPI 
against these  later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mr P in a more  favourable  position, 
I have taken into account the later industry  codes  of practice in considering  what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.
-Whether Santander gave Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
Ref: DRN7497120-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mr P know he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
Almost 34 years have passed  since the time of the sale and as I explained  above  Santander 
doesnt have all the paperwork from the time. It cant provide  me with the actual application 
Mr P made for PPI from the time. This isnt unusual. Businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. I also note Mr P doesnt  remember exactly what  happened so long ago 
which is understandable and unsurprising  after so many years. But where the evidence is 
incomplete to make  my decision, I will look at this matter on the balance of probabilities; that 
is what is more likely  to have happened.
Mr P doesnt complain  that he had no option-  he says he wasnt given the documents about 
PPI either during or after the sale. But for completeness, I have looked at whether Mr P was 
given a choice  about buying  the cover.
Santander has provided me with a sample mortgage  application and PPI application 
document which it says would have been  representative of the application forms at that time. 
Both applications are dated in 1987  so I think they are likely representative of the forms Mr P 
saw at the time. There is a section on the mortgage application about PPI and Mr P would 
have been required  to tick the box to say he was interested in cover  for personal accident 
and sickness with redundancy extra. He would also have had to sign and date the form. As 
he was taking on a new financial commitment,  Im satisfied he would have most likely read 
the form and understood he had said he required the cover and that he didnt need to 
proceed if he didnt  want  it. A separate application  would then likely have been  completed for 
the PPI. Again, this application  would  have needed Mr P to tick the level of cover he wanted 
and sign and date the form. As a separate form had to be completed for the PPI I also think  
Mr P would have been aware it was a separate product to the mortgage and he didnt  have 
to have it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr P knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.
did Santander provide advice?
Mr P hasnt told us whether this was an advised sale although  he says it was sold in a 
meeting. Santander  has agreed that advice  was provided during this sale. So I will look at 
this as if it were an advised sale. It seems  thats  most likely in this case  and its also fair to 
Mr P as it puts more  responsibility on Santander for how it sold the policy  to him.
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr P with reasonable care and skill, in particular  
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN7497120the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P. It seems Mr P cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ps 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr P would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr P had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr P given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr P, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr P had a need for the policy   he would not have received any sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness and although  he told us he was entitled to three months 
redundancy pay this policy would have  paid out for longer and in addition  to it and he 
didnt have any savings he could fall back on. The policy  would have helped  Mr P 
manage the consequences  if he was unable to work.
-Although Mr P says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ps employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for disability and, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ps 
circumstances.
-While  the policy likely  included a requirement  that Mr P be disabled or unemployed 
for 60 days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 24 months for each claim,  it still provided valuable cover  given: Mr Ps 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to his 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr P be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN7497120the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr P was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr P would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr P agreed to take out the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P Im not persuaded Santander  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr P all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer.
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him.
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr P? To what extent  did Mr P 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr P. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr P
Ref: DRN7497120suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly.
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy  it recommended  was suitable  for Mr P, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr P would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr P says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr P knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander  told him the exact premium at the point Mr P 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mr P would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and he paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Santander at the time,  or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr P would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr P would get back  in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ps expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN7497120The policy excluded claims relating to any chronic or recurring disease, disorder or 
condition of which Mr P was aware on the date he signed the application for which  a 
claim has been paid under  the insurance.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr P pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking  out the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr P was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr P wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr P didnt have any pre- 
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Santander may not have told Mr P that any claim he made  would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but he 
didnt have any other means  to fall back on and Mr Ps redundancy entitlement was also 
significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr P would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr P be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr P was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
Ref: DRN7497120That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred.
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done.
Im also aware that Mr P thinks Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr P, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1987 when providing information  about an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr P and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr P in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done.
Ref: DRN7497120my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion,  
fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7497120