K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy for a mortgage  in 2001. Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr J in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Js PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage application offered  them the choice  to take PPI or turn it down. At 
that stage, they chose  not to take the policy, and they were offered a mortgage without it. 
The mortgage offer confirmed  they hadnt  chosen  PPI and it was not a condition  of the 
mortgage. It reminded Mr and Mrs J that the cover  was free for the first two years, and so if 
they changed their mind  they could still apply  for PPI if they wanted. The mortgage was 
approved and set up without  a policy, so Mr and Mrs J wouldve known they didnt have to 
have it. They  later signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI. So I think  that 
Yorkshire made Mr and Mrs J aware  they had a choice about buying  PPI, and they chose to 
take it at the time  though I understand if they no longer recall  doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Yorkshire if it did recommend  it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs J, 
Ive assumed it did. That means Yorkshire had to check the policy was right for them   and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr J was the main  earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt  affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Js work benefits and it offered him more  
comprehensive cover, especially for when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his 
normal pay. It also covered him for much longer than his savings wouldve lasted, and it 
meant he could effectively protect  his savings and use them for other things. And to clarify, 
Mr J could claim on the policy multiple times, he wasnt limited  to one claim. Its also worth  
bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs J had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost 
their home. It looks like the PPI couldve really  been  useful for them in protecting  their home 
and providing  some peace  of mind.
Ref: DRN77952732Its possible that the information Yorkshire  gave Mr and Mrs J about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr and Mrs J chose to take out PPI, so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr J wasnt affected  by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for Mr and Mrs J in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively  priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis, so Mr and Mrs J could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall,  I dont  think that better information was likely to have put them off 
taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7795273