K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains Sainsburys Bank  Plc (Sainsburys) didnt  apply payments hed made to 
his credit card account and failed to return them to his current  account.
background 
Mr W brought his complaint to us as hed failed to get a substantive  reply from Sainsburys  
about payments  made from his current account  with another bank who Ill call C for ease of 
reference - to Sainsburys in respect  of his credit  card account with them.  A series  of 
payments Mr W made from his current account with C, between 17 April and 14 June 2018, 
totalling £1000, hadnt been credited to his account  with Sainsburys. Nor were  they returned  
unpaid to C.
Sainsburys responded to Mr Ws complaint whilst  it was being  investigated  at this service. 
Sainsburys initially said theyd investigated the matter fully and their viewing of records 
showed the payments hadnt  been  received. They asked Mr W to send them  the Faster 
Payments ID which  was obtainable by him from C. Sainsburys  said this would enable  their 
payments team to attempt to trace the payments. Sainsburys accepted  the level of service 
theyd given to Mr W was below what he should expect and their attempts to contact him had 
been minimal. They credited £100  to his account  of which they said £25 was due to the 
delay in responding to the complaint. Sainsburys also later refunded Mr W the late fees and 
interest theyd charged in September  and October 2018 of £38.58  and credited and 
additional £11.42 to his account making a total redress  payment of £150.
Our investigator issued  two views  in this matter. Ultimately he thought  Sainsburys hadnt  
acted fairly  in their initial handling of the compliant.  He thought  Sainsburys should  put Mr W 
back in the position he wouldve been  had his payments been returned  unpaid as per 
Sainsburys normal procedure when an incorrect or unidentifiable reference  or account 
number is used. Our investigator thought  Sainsburys acceptance that they couldnt prove 
the payments  had been returned to C, their agreement to reimburse  Mr W the £1000  of 
payments and to pay compensation of £100  was fair.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  He felt the complaint had 
rumbled on for eight months and hed been piggy in the middle between Sainsburys and C. 
Mr W thought  the offer of £100 was somewhat mean  and a payment of £300 compensation 
was a compromise he could accept. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that Sainsburys have  made a reasonable offer to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Everyone agrees  Sainsburys  made mistakes. Theyve now refunded  the payments in 
question. So, the only issue for me to decide is whether the amount of compensation already 
paid is fair and reasonable. 
Sainsburys admit  they havent  handled this situation as they would wish and thats caused 
Mr W some  distress and inconvenience. But I cant see Mr W has incurred any further 
expenses. Looking at the overall situation, I think that the payment already made is a fair 
and reasonable response to this complaint. Although I appreciate Mr W feels strongly about 
the matter, Ive considered how this situation arose  in the first place. And thats due to the 
Ref: DRN70923492payments in question  being made,  mistakenly,  using the account number for an old card 
which had been  reported lost. Whilst I accept  that was a genuine  mistake  on the part of Mr 
W, had it not been made and the correct  number used when making payment Sainsburys 
wouldnt have found themselves in the position  of having to rectify it.
I can see Sainsburys have now rectified this and refunded both the £1000 payments and the 
interest and charges for September  and October. Theyve also paid slightly more 
compensation than that which the investigator mentioned in both this views - £111.42 to be 
precise. I consider  those  payments  to be a reasonable response in the circumstances. Its 
the sort of award Id have  made had they not offered it. So I dont require Sainsburys to do 
anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is Sainsburys Bank Plc have  made a reasonable offer to settle this dispute  
by refunding the £1000  payments and £38.58 interest and charges and in paying £111.42 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019. 
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7092349