K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the MPPI. 
Mr and Mrs R were sold a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into 
sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the MPPI  cover so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI  
element of the package in this decision.
The mortgage was in joint names, but the MPPI only covered Mr R.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were led to believe that they had to take out the MPPI, or they 
wouldnt get their mortgage.  I cant know what was said at the time, and Mr and Mrs R havent 
said much  about  why they felt this way either. So I have  to base my decision  on the information 
I do have. BoS hasnt been  able to provide paperwork from the sale, but this isnt unusual  given 
how long ago it was  it has been able to show that its sales  process at the time presented  the 
MPPI as an optional product  and that it gained proper consent to take out the policy. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that BoS did anything differently  when it sold the policy  to Mr and 
Mrs R, so I think its most  likely BoS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the 
MPPI and that they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember  
this.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check that the MPPI  was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs R about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think they chose  to take it out - it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs R paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs R back  some of the 
cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN77501792BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs R now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7750179