K821x#15complaint
Mrs T, Mr F (junior) and Mrs S (as attorneys for Mrs F) and Mrs T and Mr F (junior)  
(as executors for Mr F) complain about the advice given by St. Jamess Place Wealth  
Management Plc (St. Jamess Place) both before and after Mr F passed  away in 
December 2014.  In particular Mrs T, Mr F (junior)  and Mrs S complain about the advice 
given in respect of Inheritance Tax (IHT)  planning/mitigation provided  to Mr and Mrs F prior 
to Mr Fs passing and then to them  after Mr Fs passing.
Rather than referring  to the attorneys for Mrs F as Mrs T, Mr F (junior)  and Mrs S, and the 
executors for Mr F as Mrs T and Mr F (junior)  I will, for ease and where relevant and 
appropriate, simply refer to Mrs T.
background
Mrs T says that Mr and Mrs F first met with St. Jamess Place in 2005.  
St. Jamess Place has provided our service  with a recommendation  letter dated March  2006 
in which  it recommended Mr and Mrs F invest £7,000 each  in a Maxi ISA. This letter  also 
states that in November  2005 Mr and Mrs F had invested in a St. Jamess Place EPSII 
(saving £110,000  of IHT) and that they didnt wish to address what  had been calculated  (in 
March 2006) as being a further potential IHT liability on their estates of £106,000.
St. Jamess Place has provided our service  with a St. Jamess Place investment bond 
application dated May 2006 in which its recorded  that Mr and Mrs F wished to invest 
£20,799.
St. Jamess Place has provided our service  with an asset investment summary  dated  
June 2006 in which its recorded  that Mr and Mrs F had a potential  IHT liability  on their 
estates of £119,000 and that they had already affected an EPSII.  Reference to the above  
St. Jamess Place investment bond  (of £20,799)  is made.
St. Jamess Place has provided our service  with a confidential client  review dated 
December 2012  in which its recorded  that:
Mr and Mrs F were  both in their mid-seventies and retired
Mr F was receiving  a company pension of approximately £30,000 a year
Mr and Mrs F were  both in receipt of small state  pensions
Mr and Mrs F had a disposable income  of approximately £13,000 a year
Mr and Mrs F owned their main property (valued at £660,000) mortgage free
Mr and Mrs F owned a second property  (valued  at £205,000) mortgage free
Mr and Mrs F held a joint investment  bond (valued at £30,530)
Mr F held a unit trust ISA (valued  at approximately £64,000)
Mrs F held a unit trust ISA (valued  at approximately £64,500)
Ref: DRN77460552Mr and Mrs F held a joint bank account (with a balance of £2,000)
Mr and Mrs Fs objectives were to reduce IHT and Income  Tax (IT)
St. Jamess Place has provided our service  with a letter from Mr F dated  December  2012  in 
which reference to a December 2012  meeting  is made  and that Mr F understood  that:
his and Mrs Fs second property should be sold
the net proceeds from the above  sale, plus 50% of his and Mrs Fs ISAs,  should be 
invested in a discounted gift trust bond  (DGTB)
his and Mrs Fs joint investment bond,  their main  property and 50% of their ISAs  
would remain in [their] estate
Mr F passed away in December 2014. Mrs T has provided our service  with a note left by 
Mr F which says should he pre-decease Mrs F then contact with St. Jamess Place should 
be made for advice on obtaining  probate  and that St. Jamess  Place  had been  responsible 
for [his and Mrs Fs] Inheritance Tax planning.
Mrs T says that shortly  after Mr Fs passing she contacted St. Jamess  Place  for advice and 
was told to do nothing  for at least six months. A meeting was scheduled  for May 2015.
In this May 2015  meeting  Mrs T says it was explained to her that Mrs Fs estate had a 
potential IHT liability estimated at £220,000  and what Mrs F should do was sell her second 
property and invest the proceeds  into a DGTB.
In a December  2015 meeting Mrs T confirmed to St. Jamess Place that Mrs Fs second 
property was ready to be marketed for sale. 
In May 2016  Mrs Ts husband wrote to St. Jamess  Place (referencing the May 2015 
meeting) to confirm  that Mrs Fs second property had been sold and the proceeds of the 
same, together with her investment bond and ISA, would soon be available  for investing into 
a DGTB or other IHT efficient investment.
In June 2016 Mrs Ts husband  wrote to St. Jamess Place (referencing a 31 May 2016 
meeting) to say that he was unhappy that investment into a DGTB (for various  reasons) was 
no longer an option,  or a suitable option  and that the advice to sell Mrs Fs second property 
and to invest in a number of business property relief (BPR) schemes (as an alternative  to 
investing in a DGTB) was, in his view, unsuitable.
Shortly after the above letter was sent,  and unhappy  with the IHT planning/mitigation advice 
Mr and Mrs F had received over a number of years, Mrs T dispensed with 
St. Jamess Places services.
In July 2016 a new advisor  appointed  by Mrs T, said:
Mrs F currently had a taxable estate valued  at £530,439 (£1,015,500, plus gifts of 
£164,939 made in the last seven  years less two IHT Nil Rate bands of £325,000)
Mrs Fs estate had a potential IHT liability estimated  at £212,175 (40%  x £530,439)
Ref: DRN77460553the £1,015,500 included Mrs Fs principle mortgage free property and cash on 
deposit of approximately £355,000
the cash on deposit included the proceeds  of a number of other investments which 
had recently been surrendered or encashed  by Mrs F
Mrs F should  invest £350,000 in a Foresight Accelerated Inheritance Tax Solution,  
thus reducing her estates potential IHT liability to an estimated £72,175 
(£212,175 - [40% x £350,000]).
the charges  of the recommended investment were:
oinitial advice fee of £1,295 (based on time spent and the level of expertise 
and responsibility  of the appointed  advisor)
oimplementation fee of £3,500 (1% of £350,000)
oinitial charge of £8,630 (2.5% of £345,205 [£350,000 - £1,295  - £3,500])
oannual management  charge of 4.64% in years one and two of the net sum 
invested (say £15,617 a year on a sum of £336,575 [£350,000  - £8,630 - 
£1,295 - £3,500]
oannual management  charge of 1% from year three onwards of the net sum 
invested (say £3,366 on a sum of £336,575)
otransaction arrangement fees of between 0.5%  and 1.5% a year of the fund 
value
oannual administration  expenses  capped at 0.7% a year of the fund value
In 2007 Mr and Mrs F were invited by St. Jamess  Place to take out 
Enduring Powers of Attorney (EPA) at a combined cost of £190. They  did so.
In 2009 Mr and Mrs F were invited by St. Jamess  Place to take out 
Lasting Powers of Attorney (LPA) at a cost of £195  each. They  didnt do so.
In 2015 Mrs F was invited  by St. Jamess  Place  to take out an LPA at a cost of £820.  She 
did so.
In late 2017, and after Mrs S had received  a letter  pertaining to funds of £15,000 possibly 
owned by or due to Mrs F, Mrs T wrote  to St. Jamess Place to complain, amongst other 
things, that:
for eight  years prior to Mr Fs passing  nothing or very little had been done in respect  
of IHT planning/mitigation
for six months after Mr Fs passing nothing had been done in respect of 
IHT planning/mitigation
Ref: DRN77460554on Mr Fs passing Mrs Fs estate was left with a potential IHT liability estimated at 
£220,000
advice received between May 2015 and June 2016 was inadequate
at no time was it advised  that a life policy be taken out on Mrs Fs life
Mr and Mrs F were  advised to take out EPAs rather  than LPAs
it wasnt until December 2015 that it came to light that Mr Fs ISA hadnt been 
transferred to Mrs F
In January 2018 St. Jamess Place  sent Mrs T a final response letter (FRL)  in which  it said:
discussions around IHT took place  regularly with Mr and Mrs F prior to Mr Fs 
passing
it was Mr and Mrs Fs wish to sell their second  property (rather  than surrender or 
encash a number of their other  investments) and to invest the proceeds  into a DGTB 
(or other IHT mitigation investment)
given the above it wasnt possible to advise  Mr and Mrs F on a specific  IHT 
planning/mitigation strategy  before Mr Fs passing  because  the second  property 
hadnt been sold
it wasnt unreasonable to delay IHT planning/mitigation for six months following 
Mr Fs passing
the advice  to take out EPAs then an LPA was suitable
in May 2015 it advised the sale of the second  property  (with the view of investing in a 
DGTB)
In June 2016 (with the second  property sold and Mrs F having  been diagnosed with 
the early onset of dementia) investing in a DGTB was no longer  suitable, or even 
possible
the advice  to invest into a number BPR schemes, and how much,  was suitable
its restricted status would and should  have  been  known to Mr and Mrs F and later 
known to Mrs T
life assurance wasnt  a consideration in May 2015
even had life assurance been  a consideration in May 2015, the cost may well have 
been prohibitive
in any event, after August 2015  life assurance wouldnt have been available given 
Mrs Fs diagnosis of the early onset  of dementia
Ref: DRN77460555a letter  sent to Mrs S, pertaining to funds  of £15,000 possibly owned by or due to 
Mrs F, was sent in error 
it accepts there was a delay in transferring Mr Fs ISA to Mrs F
it accepts there had been  some administration issues and for this it was prepared to 
pay Mrs F £500
Unhappy with St. Jamess  Places FRL, Mrs T referred her concerns to our service.  In doing 
so she explained  why she disagreed with most of what, if not everything,  St. Jamess  Place 
had said and that what she was seeking  by way of compensation for Mrs F was £47,657 
broken down as follows:
Initial advice fee of £1,295
Implementation fee of £3,500
Initial charge of £8,630
Fees 03/087/16  to 30/09/17 of £19,612 (£2,481  + £7,787  + £9,344)
Estimated Fees 30/09/17 to 03/08/18 £14,000
Sub Total £47,037
EPA/LPA issue £620 (£190 + £820 - £390)
Total £47,657
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who issued the parties a first view 
concluding that the complaint should  be upheld and that St. Jamess  Place  should:
pay £500 (as it said it was prepared to do in its FRL) for the delay in transferring 
Mr Fs ISA investment  to Mrs F and for sending Mrs S an erroneous  letter  in 
October 2017
pay the difference between the costs and fees incurred as a result of Mrs T acting on 
the advice  she received (in respect of Mrs F) in June 2016 (from a new advisor)   
estimated by Mrs T as being  £47,037   and what she would  have incurred prior to 
this date had she received  different  advice  from St. Jamess Place.
Mrs T responded to say:
she accepted  St. Jamess Places  offer to pay Mrs F £500 for the delay in transferring 
Mr Fs ISA investment  to Mrs F and for sending Mrs S an erroneous  letter  in 
October 2017
Mrs F should  be paid £620  for the EPA/LPA issue
Mrs F should  be paid £47,850 for additional fees and costs  incurred, this being the 
difference between  £48,850 of costs and fees incurred as a result of acting on the 
advice received in June 2016  (from a new advisor) and £1,000  of costs and fees that 
would have been incurred had she received different advice  from St. Jamess Place
Mrs F should  receive interest on any award made and paid
Ref: DRN77460556St. Jamess Place responded with a number of points for the adjudicators consideration, 
including the question as to why Mrs T should  be compensated for the ongoing costs of the 
2016 investment  when  similar ongoing costs  would have been payable  on any investment it 
might have advised she invest in.
The adjudicator considered both parties  responses  to his first view and then issued a 
second view concluding  that the complaint  should be upheld and that St. Jamess Place 
should:
pay £500 (as it said it was prepared to do in its FRL) for the delay in transferring 
Mr Fs ISA investment  to Mrs F and for sending Mrs S an erroneous  letter  in 
October 2017
pay the difference between the initial costs  and fees incurred as a result of Mrs T 
acting on the advice she received in June 2016 (from a new advisor)   estimated by 
her as being £13,425  and what initial costs and fees that would have been incurred 
prior to this date had she received  different  advice from St. Jamess  Place
interest on the above sum of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
pay £620 for the EPA/LPA  issue
interest on the above sum of 8% simple per annum from the date of the last payment 
to the date of settlement
pay the difference in the sale price  of the second property and its value at the date of 
settlement
pay the loss of any rent forgone as a result of the second property being sold from 
the date of sale to the date of settlement
interest on the above sum of 8% simple per annum from the date of each monthly  
loss to the date of settlement
pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter  has caused
Mrs T responded to say she disagreed  with no compensation for the ongoing fees (for the 
June 2016 investment) being  awarded.
St. Jamess Place responded to say:
it agreed to pay £500 for the delay  in transferring Mr Fs ISA investment to Mrs F and 
for sending Mrs S an erroneous letter in October 2017
it agreed to pay £620 for the EPA/LPA issue
it agreed to pay interest on the above  sum of 8% simple  per annum from the date of 
the last payment to the date of settlement
Ref: DRN77460557it agreed to pay £500 for the distress  and inconvenience this whole matter has 
caused
it didnt agree to pay the difference between the initial costs and fees incurred as a 
result of Mrs T acting on the advice she received  in June 2016 (from a new advisor)  
estimated by her as being £13,425  and what initial  costs  and fees would have been  
incurred prior to this date had Mrs T received different advice from it because such 
costs and fees cant be calculated with any degree  of certainty
its entirely possible that any initial costs and fees that might  have  been  incurred, had 
Mrs T received different advice from it, might be more than the initial costs and fees 
ultimately incurred by her in June 2016
it didnt agree to pay the difference in the sale price of the second property and its 
value at the date of settlement and the loss of any rent forgone as a result of the 
second property  being sold from the date of sale to the date of settlement on the 
grounds to sell the property wasnt the wrong  thing to do
The adjudicator considered both parties  response  to his second  view and then issued a third 
view concluding that the complaint should be upheld  and that St. Jamess  Place should:
pay £500 (as it said it was prepared to do in its FRL) for the delay in transferring 
Mr Fs ISA investment  to Mrs F and for sending Mrs S an erroneous  letter  in 
October 2017
pay £620 for the EPA/LPA  issue
pay interest on the above  sum of 8% simple per annum  from the date of the last 
payment to the date of settlement
pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter  has caused
However he concluded that St. Jamess Place  need not:
pay any losses that might have flowed from the sale of the second property on the 
grounds that there is insufficient evidence that Mr and Mrs F were provided  with false  
or misleading information that such a sale was the only option  open to them
refund  any fees and costs incurred in taking  the June 2016  investment as there is 
insufficient evidence  to show that less fees and costs would have  been  incurred had 
St. Jamess Place provided Mrs T with different  advice
Mrs T responded to say she disagreed  with the adjudicators third view and believed  Mrs F 
should be paid:
£40,000 to £68,951 for loss of appreciation on the sold property
£48,740 for loss of rent on the sold property
£26,550 excess investment charges and fees
interest on the sum of £26,550
£620 for EPA/LPA issue
interest on the sum of £620
Ref: DRN77460558£1,000 for maladministration
An unquantified sum for distress and inconvenience
further loss of rent going  forward, including  retention of the house post Mrs Fs 
passing
The adjudicator considered Mrs Ts response  to his third view but wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. Therefore the complaint was passed to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2019. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both have 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  However, I trust that the parties  will 
not take the fact that my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also like to point  out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
Mrs T agrees that payment by St. Jamess  Place  of £500  represents  sufficient 
compensation for the delay in transferring Mr Fs ISA to Mrs F and for the erroneous 
letter it sent to Mrs S. So other than confirming I think this represents  a fair and 
reasonable sum for St. Jamess Place to have to pay in this respect, I make no 
further finding or comment  on this particular issue.
Mrs T agrees that payment by St. Jamess  Place  of £620  (plus  interest) represents  
sufficient compensation  for the EPA/LPA issue. So other than confirming I think  this 
represents a fair and reasonable  sum for St. Jamess  Place  to have to pay in this 
respect, I make no further finding  or comment on this particular issue.
advice given prior to Mr Fs passing in December 2014
Its clear Mr and Mrs F first became clients of St. Jamess  Place  in 2005 and they 
remained so up to the date of Mr Fs passing in December 2014.  Its also clear that 
Mr and Mrs F had a desire to mitigate (in full or in part) IHT on their respective 
estates.
However whats not particularly clear  is exactly what  might  or might not have been 
agreed as being  an appropriate strategy for Mr and Mrs F to adopt  to achieve their 
desire to mitigate  IHT on their respective estates.
Ref: DRN77460559However, having considered what both parties  have said and submitted, I find 
St. Jamess Places submission that Mr and Mrs F didnt  want  to  for whatever 
reason  utilise the value tied up in their other investments (at least  in the main) for 
IHT planning  and mitigation purposes, but would  rather utilise the value tied up in 
their second  property instead,  to be both plausible and persuasive. Ive come  to this 
conclusion having  had regard, amongst other things, to the following:
It appears that Mr and Mrs F invested a substantial lump sum from their other  
investments into an IHT mitigation investment in 2005 (on the advice of 
St. Jamess Place) suggesting that they could  or would have understood that 
investment (into an IHT mitigation investment)  from their other investments 
was always an option.
Mr and Mrs F dont  appear to have been  financially nave,  albeit I accept they 
couldnt reasonably have been classed as being  sophisticated investors. I say 
this given the rather substantial portfolio they held,  the mix of investments in 
the same  and given  that their second property was held, based  on Mrs Ts 
own submission to our service, in some  sort of trust arrangement.
Mr and Mrs F, having had ownership  of two properties for some time, would in 
my view have  understood the risks of selling rather than holding onto their 
second property,  for example the risk that the sale proceeds might  return (on 
investment) a smaller sum than would have been  returned by way of future 
rent and property  price  appreciation.
So taking everything into account I find on the balance  of probabilities that prior to 
Mr Fs passing  that although Mr and Mrs F had a desire to mitigate their respective 
IHT estate  liabilities they were only prepared to do so from the funds tied up in their 
second property  and not from their other  investments and that they understood, or 
ought to have understood, that advice on how to best invest  these sale proceeds (in 
full or in part) couldnt reasonably be given until their second  property had been  sold.  
advice given between  December 2014  (the date of Mr Fs passing) and April 2015
I can see that following  Mr Fs passing  in December 2014, Mrs T was advised to do 
nothing for six months. Now I appreciate Mrs T says this was unsatisfactory, but I 
disagree. Given Mrs Fs age at this time, what was known about her health  and her 
circumstances and financial position and given that she had just lost her husband, I 
think that advising nothing  be reviewed or done  for six months  was entirely  
appropriate. 
But even if I wasnt of this view and even if I was to accept that Mrs T might  have 
done something different had advice been  given to her during this six month  window 
the fact remains that prior to Mr Fs passing  in December 2014 it was Mrs Fs desire 
to mitigate IHT by investing (appropriately) the proceeds from the sale of her second 
property and not through the reinvestment of other investments she held.  And during 
this six month period  Mrs Fs second property  remained unsold.
Ref: DRN774605510advice given between  May 2015  and July 2015
I can see that in May 2015 Mrs T was advised  that Mrs F should sell her second 
property and invest the proceeds  into a DGTB. Now although there might have been 
alternative options available at this point in time Im not persuaded this advice was 
unsuitable. I say this given that investing  in a DGTB is one way of mitigating IHT and 
it was Mrs Fs desire (along with Mr F prior to his passing)  to sell the second property 
and invest in this manner rather than utilise other investments. For the sake of 
completeness I would also add that I dont think it was unreasonable for 
St. Jamess Place to have not recommended,  during this three month window, that 
Mrs F take out life cover given her age and what was known about  her state of health 
- amongst  other things.
advice given between  August 2015  and December 2015
I can see that in December 2015  Mrs T confirmed to St. Jamess Place that Mrs Fs 
second property  was ready to be marketed for sale. I can also see that Mrs T says 
that St. Jamess Place was made aware  at some point during this five month window 
of Mrs Fs diagnosis  of the early  on-set  of dementia.
But I dont think that any of the above  meant that St. Jamess Place should have 
advised on an investment strategy sooner than it ultimately did. In this respect I think 
its worth  noting that it was a long standing desire of Mrs F (and Mr F prior to his 
passing) to sell the second property (which during this window still hadnt happened)  
and that life assurance would have been  impossible  to arrange, or very expensive  to 
arrange.
advice given between  January 2016  and April 2016
I can see that during  this period no advice  was given by St. Jamess  Place. But for 
the same  reasons as given above  I dont think this was unreasonable.
advice given in May 2016
I can see that in May 2016, when the second  property had been sold and the 
proceeds had become  available  (with  other investment funds)  for investment,  
investment into a DGTB was no longer an option,  or at least a suitable option  
according to St. Jamess Place.  And what St. Jamess Place advised Mrs F should 
do was to invest in 4 BPR schemes.  
I appreciate that it might  have been possible for investment into a DGTB to be made 
in May 2016,  but in my view it was entirely reasonable for St. Jamess  Place  to 
discount this as an option (given Mrs Fs health) in favour of investment  into 4 BPR 
schemes. And that investment into one or more  BPR schemes  offered a way of 
mitigating IHT (albeit  there  is a two year waiting period).
Ref: DRN774605511advice given between  December 2014  (the date of Mr Fs passing) and May 2016
Even if I wasnt  of the above view as to the suitability of the advice given, Im not 
persuaded that any loss has been  suffered. I accept that Mrs F has incurred fees and 
costs of approximately £50,000 by investing  in the manner  that she did in 2016 on 
the advice of a new advisor,  but Ive seen insufficient evidence that similar costs and 
fees wouldnt have  been incurred had Mrs F invested sooner  than this and on the 
advice of St. Jamess Place.
In my view had Mrs F invested sooner than she ultimately did, and in a manner that 
was suitable, the costs  of doing  so would have been similar to the costs she has now 
incurred. I say this having  regard to, amongst other  things, that Mrs T herself submits 
that investing in the BPR schemes recommended  by St. Jamess  Place   whether in 
May 2016 or earlier  would have involved eye wateringly  expensive initial  and 
ongoing management fees and a 4.5%  initial advice  fee. And that life assurance 
(prior to July 2015) would have cost between £22,500 and £14,400.
restricted advice status
Mrs T says she was never advised  of St. Jamess Places restricted advice status.  
Now I accept I cant say for certain, but on the balance of probabilities  I think  that its 
more likely than not that she was. I say this because, amongst other things, I see no 
reason why this information would have been withheld from her and this information 
appears to have been shared with Mr and Mrs F as early as 2006. I say the latter  
because the advice letter provided to Mr and Mrs F in March  2006 says:
When we met, I provided you with both our Key Fact about our Services  document 
that described, amongst other things, the products we offer,  the service we provide, 
our financial  arrangements with St. Jamess Place and our Terms of Business. If you 
have any queries on this document please let me know.
During our meeting,  I went through with you the various areas of financial  planning  I 
can advise you on.
other matters
I can see that the adjudicator recommended that St. Jamess Place pay £500 in 
addition to the £500 for the delay in transferring Mr Fs ISA to Mrs F and for sending 
Mrs S an erroneous  letter in October  2017.  Given what I say above I think this 
represents an appropriate sum for St. Jamess Place to have to pay for any trouble 
and upset that might have  been caused here and which  might  have been avoidable.
summary
In summary  Im not persuaded the advice  Mr and Mrs F received before Mr Fs 
passing and the advice  Mrs T received  after Mr Fs passing was unsuitable, or that a 
material financial loss has been  incurred.
I then went on to outline what St. Jamess Place should  pay Ms F by way of compensation.
St. Jamess Place responded to say it had nothing  further to add and that it accepted  my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN774605512Ms T responded to say that she disagreed with my provisional decision. As well as 
reiterating a number of her previous  submissions  she said, in summary:
advice given prior to Mr Fs passing in December 2014  (2005 to 2006)
Mr and Mrs F didnt  invest  a substantial lump sum from their other investments into 
an IHT mitigation investment in 2005 (on the advice of St. Jamess Place)  saving 
£110,000 IHT. What  they did (following a referral  by St. Jamess Place to a solicitor)  
was to transfer the second property into their joint names from Mr Fs sole name, for 
new wills to be drawn up and for two discretionary trusts to be established. 
Under their new wills Mr and Mrs F both left (to their respective established trust) 
assets to the value  of their nil rate IHT band, thus allowing both of them to benefit 
from such an allowance, something  they wouldnt have been  able to do had they 
simply left their entire  estate to the other. Based on a nil rate band of £275,000 this 
piece of planning saved £110,000 IHT.
My notion that Mr and Mrs F had a good measure of financial acuity  is quite 
implausible.
From  2005 onwards  various money  started  to come under St. Jamess  Places  
control. But none of this money was invested  with the view of mitigating IHT.
St. Jamess Places recommendation letter  dated March 2006  clearly evidences that 
Mr and Mrs F werent at all concerned  about IHT, yet some  thirteen  years later 
St. Jamess Place submits it was actively responding  to Mr and Mrs Fs concerns 
about IHT in 2006  the complete opposite.
In its recommendation  letter dated March 2006 St. Jamess Place describes 
Mr and Mrs F as being passive investors, demonstrating they werent  sophisticated 
investors. 
St. Jamess Places recommendation letter  dated March 2006  states  Mr and Mrs F 
only needed access to £17,000 so why in 2016  was St. Jamess Place holding onto 
£200,000 ISA and investment bond  monies?
advice given prior to Mr Fs passing in December 2014  (December 2012)
If Mr and Mrs F were  so switched  on or savvy then why did they allow their 
potential IHT liability almost double between March 2006 and December 2012?
Ive suggested  that Mr and Mrs Fs unit trust investments and ISA investments were 
separate and distinct but they were  one and the same.
If in December 2012 it was Mr and Mrs Fs objective to mitigate IHT, then why did 
St. Jamess Place advise Mr F, if indeed thats  what it did, to sell the second property 
and invest the proceeds,  together with 50% of his and Mrs Fs ISA funds,  in a DGTB 
rather than advise  he sell the second property and invest  the proceeds, together with 
100% of his and Mrs Fs ISA funds and 100% of their joint investment bond funds, in 
a DGTB.
Ref: DRN774605513In December 2012 St. Jamess Place advised that the only way to protect  the second 
property from IHT was to sell it and invest the funds  in a DGTB. This advice was 
unsuitable and a number of other options  were  available.
advice given prior to Mr Fs passing in December 2014  (2013 to 2014)
During this time Mr Fs health deteriorated resulting in his passing in December 2014. 
Yet during this period nothing was done by St. Jamess Place to mitigate 
his and Mrs Fs potential IHT liabilities.  
advice given between  December 2014  (the date of Mr Fs passing) and April 2015
It should have  been obvious  and apparent to St. Jamess Place that on Mr Fs 
passing it was paramount that Mrs Fs desire to mitigate her IHT liability was 
addressed. Therefore  it was entirely inappropriate to suggest that nothing be done for 
six months.
Had she been advised of Mrs Fs potential IHT liability in December 2014  she might  
have decided to seek advice elsewhere  and might  have secured, at a reasonable 
cost, cover on Mrs Fs life.
advice given between  May 2015  and July 2015
In the May 2015 meeting, and having discovered there was a potential  £220,000 IHT 
liability in respect  of Mrs Fs estate, she was advised  that the only way this could be 
mitigated was to sell the second property and invest  the proceeds in a DGTB. This 
advice was unsuitable and a number  of other  options were available  (including  life 
assurance).
At no time did Mr and Mrs F have  a longstanding wish or desire to sell the second 
property.
advice given between  August 2015  and December 2015
At no time during this period, and fully aware  that Mrs F had been  diagnosed with 
very early stage dementia, was she advised to hold off selling the second  property.  
advice given in May 2016
Despite being  asked how to best invest the second property sale proceeds and other  
monies, St. Jamess  Place said it could/would only recommend  that Mrs F invest the 
second property  sale proceeds (and nothing else) into 4 BPR schemes.  It didnt 
recommend investing any other monies  into these BPR schemes, or point out that 
approval could  be sought from the Court of Protection to invest the second property 
sale proceeds and other  monies in a DGTB as previously advised.
advice given between  December 2014  (the date of Mr Fs passing) and May 2016
Im wrong to conclude  that that no more  costs and fees were incurred by Mrs F 
investing £350,000 in the manner that she did than she would  have incurred had she 
invested sooner  in an alternative investment and on suitable advice from 
St. Jamess Place.
Ref: DRN774605514restricted advice status
It defies plausibility that she knew about St. Jamess Places restricted  advisor  status.
other matters
St. Jamess Place failed to write any follow up letters detailing its advice and 
recommendations between December 2014  and June 2016  something that it could  
and should have done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs T has provided  substantial and detailed submissions in response to my provisional 
decision. And whilst I dont intend  to respond in similar detail, I can confirm  that Ive read 
them all and taken them all into account when making my decision.  So if I dont mention a 
particular point, or piece  of evidence, or answer  a particular question,  it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to, to explain my decision.  
Again I hope Mrs T doesnt take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal  
nature of our service.
Mrs T still agrees that payment by St. Jamess  Place  of £500  represents sufficient 
compensation for the delay in transferring Mr Fs ISA to Mrs F and for the erroneous letter it 
sent to Mrs S. So other than confirming I think this represents a fair and reasonable sum for 
St. Jamess Place to have to pay in this respect, I make no further  finding  or comment on 
this particular issue.
Mrs T still agrees that payment by St. Jamess  Place  of £620  (plus interest)  represents  
sufficient compensation  for the EPA/LPA issue. So other than confirming I think  this 
represents a fair and reasonable  sum for St. Jamess  Place  to have to pay in this respect, I 
make no further finding or comment on this particular issue.
advice given prior to Mr Fs passing in December 2014 (2005 to 2006)
In my provisional decision I said:
However, having considered what both parties  have said and submitted, I find 
St. Jamess Places submission that Mr and Mrs F didnt  want  to  for whatever reason  
utilise the value  tied up in their other investments (at least in the main)  for IHT planning  and 
mitigation purposes, but would rather utilise the value tied up in their second property 
instead, to be both plausible and persuasive.  Ive come to this conclusion having  had regard,  
amongst other things,  to the following:
It appears that Mr and Mrs F invested a substantial lump sum from their other  
investments into an IHT mitigation investment in 2005 (on the advice of 
St. Jamess Place) suggesting that they could  or would have understood that 
investment (into an IHT mitigation investment)  from their other investments was 
always an option.
Ref: DRN774605515First I would like to make it clear  that I didnt come  to the view that Mr and Mrs F invested a 
substantial sum from their other investments into an IHT mitigation investment in 2005 based  
on something St. Jamess  Place  specifically told me. Rather  I came  to this incorrect view 
based on my interpretation  of the various paperwork that had been provided.
Now based on what Mrs T has now kindly said and submitted, I accept that what  appears to 
have happened  in 2005 is that Mr and Mrs F were referred to a solicitor  by St. Jamess Place 
and this solicitor, in 2006, produced for Mr and Mrs F two new wills which  gave them a 
combined IHT saving of £110,000. But this doesnt  lead me to change my view.
Given the various discussions Mr and Mrs F had with St. Jamess  Place  prior to 
December 2014,  the discussions they had with the solicitor in 2005/2006,  the make-up of 
their respective portfolios between 2005 and 2014  and how long they had owned  two 
properties prior to December 2014, Im satisfied  that on the balance of probabilities that  
although Mr and Mrs F had a desire  to mitigate their respective IHT estate liabilities they 
were only prepared to do so from the funds tied up in their second property and not from 
their other investments. And that they understood, or ought  to have understood, that advice  
on how to best invest these sale proceeds  (in full or in part) couldnt reasonably be given 
until their second property had been sold. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs F werent sophisticated investors but I remain of the view, given 
how they had invested over the years, that they werent financially nave.
I accept that from 2005 onwards various  money  started to come  under St. Jamess Places 
control and that none of this money was invested  with the view of mitigating IHT.
But I wouldnt expect for this money  to have been invested in this way given that it had been 
recorded in St. Jamess  Place recommendation letter  dated  March 2006 that Mr and Mrs F 
didnt, at that point  in time, wish to mitigate  any further IHT accruing on their respective 
estates.
Mrs T says St. Jamess  Places March 2006  recommendation letter  cant be reconciled with 
its submissions  some  thirteen years  later that it was actively responding to Mr and Mrs Fs 
concerns about  IHT in 2006. But I disagree.
In my view when St. Jamess  Places  March 2006 recommendation letter is considered  in its 
entirety IHT was a concern to Mr and Mrs F and St. Jamess Place in 2006. But having just 
mitigated £110,000 (by having  two new wills written) Mr and Mrs F just didnt want to take 
steps straight away to mitigate any further  IHT. 
I also think its worth pointing  out what mitigating IHT involves. In essence it involves 
individuals being advised to relinquish  control,  one way or the other, of their wealth. And 
whilst with the benefit of hindsight, some  years later, it could be submitted that those 
individuals could  or shouldve been advised  to do more, in the particular circumstances of 
this case I remain of the view that having  just saved their estates over £100k  Mr and Mrs F 
simply didnt feel it was that urgent for them  to take any further steps  given what  that would 
entail.  I certainly dont agree that this letter evidences  that Mr and Mrs F were  not at all 
concerned about  IHT. 
Ref: DRN774605516I accept that being  passive  investors  might suggest a lack of sophistication. But regardless  
of how St. Jamess Place  might have described  Mr and Mrs F in March 2006 I remain of the 
view, and for reasons already given, that they couldnt be described as having  been nave 
investors in 2006,  or subsequently.
Mrs T says that if in March 2006  it was noted that Mr and Mrs F didnt need access to any of 
their capital bar £17,000, why did St. Jamess  Place  still have £200,000 under  its 
control/management in 2016 invested  in ISAs  and an investment bond?
I can understand the point Mrs T is making but she has misunderstood what  is meant by 
accessible. Now I appreciate she might view money in the types of ISA and investment 
bond held by Mr and Mrs F as being accessible,  but in respect of financial advice  accessible  
means cash on deposit, for example  in a bank savings account. So I dont  think that by 
keeping money  invested  in the ISAs and investment  bond held by Mr and Mrs F, in 2006 or 
subsequently, meant  that St. Jamess Place  had disregarded Mr and Mrs Fs need  to have 
access to only £17,000.
I would also add that if Mrs F is suggesting that by not switching money held in ISAs and an 
investment bond  into IHT efficient investments St. Jamess Place has disregarded what 
Mr and Mrs F were  looking  to achieve, I would reiterate that in March 2006 this wasnt  what 
was recorded  as being something Mr and Mrs F wanted to do.
advice given prior to Mr Fs passing in December 2014  (December 2012)
I note that in March  2006 Mr and Mrs F had a potential IHT liability  calculated at £106,000. 
However I cant see that this almost  doubled between March  2006 and December 2012. In 
my view it increased by about 40%. But regardless of how much this liability had increased 
by between March  2006 and December  2012  Im not persuaded this indicates  that 
Mr and Mrs F were  nave  investors. 
In my view this simply indicates that in December 2012 Mr and Mrs F had decided that the 
time was now right to look at mitigating their respective estate IHT liabilities, having 
previously decided in March 2006  not to do so.
I accept that Mr and Mrs Fs unit trust investments  and ISAs  were one and the same, rather 
than separate  and distinct investments.  This is because having  reviewed what  has been said 
and submitted I can see that what Mr and Mrs F held in December 2012  were two unit trust 
investments in ISA wrappers. However,  any misunderstanding on my part in this respect 
had no bearing  on my provisional findings  and conclusion.
I agree  that based on Mr Fs letter dated December  2012 he understood that 
St. Jamess Place had advised  him to sell the second property and invest  the proceeds,  
together with 50% of his and Mrs Fs ISA funds, in a DGTB.  But what is unclear is what  other 
strategies, if any, might  have been  discussed  and discounted. 
But regardless of what other strategies had or hadnt  been discussed Im satisfied that this 
advice wasnt unsuitable. I say this because this course of action would have  taken, 
everything else being equal,  £270,000 out of Mr and Mrs Fs estates potentially  saving 
£108,000 in IHT. And when considering whether advice  given  was suitable, I only need to be 
satisfied that it was, not that it was the most suitable. 
Ref: DRN774605517I also dont think that advising  Mr and Mrs F to keep in the region of £65,000 in ISAs and 
£30,000 in an investment  bond, if indeed that is what St. Jamess Place did, was unsuitable. 
I would also add, notwithstanding that Ive already  explained as to what is generally meant 
by accessible funds,  that the fact that that Mr and Mrs F only needed access to £17,000  in 
March 2006 meant that the same  was true in December 2012.  
Mrs T submits that in December  2012 St. Jamess Place advised  that the only way to protect 
the second property from IHT was to sell it and invest the funds in a DGTB and this advice  
was unsuitable  because a number of other  options were  available.
First Ive seen nothing  to suggest that St. Jamess  Place advised Mr F that the only way to 
protect the second  property from IHT was to sell it. As I say above, its quite possible that a 
number of options were  discussed with Mr F and discounted. But even if they werent,  I 
remain of the view that advising Mr F sell the second property and invest  the proceeds in a 
DGTB wasnt unsuitable advice given what everybody accepts Mr F (and Mrs F) were 
looking to achieve  in December 2012.
I note that Mrs T views the second property as being  an income generating and capital 
appreciating asset. However this isnt guaranteed. Properties can capital depreciate as well 
as appreciate and there is no guarantee that a property can be let, or let 100% of the time. 
Furthermore investments  (depending on the type) dont  just generate income  but appreciate 
(and depreciate)  in capital value very similar to a property. I also think  its worth pointing  out 
that any appreciating asset, everything else being equal, would increase an individuals 
potential IHT liability, the very thing Mrs T says Mr and Mrs F were  looking to avoid or 
mitigate.
I accept that life assurance was an option  open  to Mr and Mrs F in December 2012. But 
because no such cover was placed  on risk by St. Jamess Place,  whether as a result of the 
same not being  discussed or it being discussed  and discounted, doesnt make  
St. Jamess Places advice in December 2012  unsuitable.
advice given prior to Mr Fs passing in December 2014  (2013 to 2014)
I accept that during this period Mr Fs health deteriorated resulting in his passing  in 
December 2014.  And St. Jamess Place did nothing in this period to mitigate Mr and Mrs Fs 
potential IHT liabilities. But given that in December 2012 it was agreed that Mr F would sell 
the second property, and at the time of his passing that hadnt happened, I find it entirely 
reasonable that nothing  happened  during this period.
Also during  this period Ive seen nothing to suggest that St. Jamess Place was made aware 
of Mr Fs deteriorating health.
Ref: DRN774605518advice given between  December 2014  (the date of Mr Fs passing) and April 2015
I accept that on the passing of one party to a marriage the need to mitigate  the surviving 
partys potential IHT liability, if IHT mitigation is of concern,  becomes more  important. But I 
remain of the view that in all the circumstances  of this case  it was entirely reasonable for 
St. Jamess Place to suggest that nothing be done  for six months. 
It should also be noted that on Mr Fs passing  there was very little, if anything, that could be 
done to mitigate  Mr Fs estates IHT liability. Secondly, Ive seen nothing that would lead me 
to conclude that St. Jamess Place could, or should, have reasonably contemplated the risk 
of Mrs F being diagnosed  with the early  onset of dementia in the near future.
I would also add that when I made reference in my provisional decision to Mrs Fs age, what  
was known about her health and her circumstances  and financial position in 2014/15 what I 
meant by this was there was nothing to suggest; 
she, being in her in her late seventies, had anything other than a standard  life 
expectancy of ten years (compared to say a life expectancy of only three years for 
somebody in their late nineties)
she was in anything  other than good  health
she had any immediate need for investments held to be surrendered, to generate 
cash for example
I accept that had Mrs T been advised  of Mrs Fs potential  IHT liability  in December 2014,  or 
shortly afterwards, she might have sought advice elsewhere and might  have  secured  cover 
on Mrs Fs life. But I make  no finding on this point  because I remain of the view that 
St. Jamess Place acted entirely appropriately  in advising that nothing be done for six 
months.
advice given between  May 2015  and July 2015
Mrs T says that in the May 2015 meeting she was advised that the only way to mitigate the 
IHT liability  on Mrs Fs estate was to sell the second property and invest  the proceeds in a 
DGTB and this advice  was unsuitable  and a number of other options were available.
I accept that I cant say for certain  what was and wasnt  discussed at this meeting but Im not 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that St. Jamess Place would  have told Mrs T that 
the only option was to sell the second  property. 
But in any event, and as Ive said previously, I dont find the advice to sell the second 
property and to invest the proceeds  in a DGTB to have  been unsuitable. 
For the sake of clarity I would add that when  I said in my provisional decision that in 2015  
Mrs F had a (longstanding) desire  to sell the second property what I meant by this was that 
this was the course of action that had been  discussed and agreed  with Mr F two and half 
years previously in December 2012.  And this was a course of action  that he (and Mrs F) 
appeared to be happy with.
Ref: DRN774605519advice given between  August 2015  and December 2015
I accept that during this period Mrs T wasnt advised  to hold off selling the second property, 
but I see no reason  why St. Jamess  Place  should  have  done so given that he sale of the 
second property  was something that had been  agreed with Mr and Mrs F in December  2012  
as something they wanted to do, or appeared to be happy to do.
advice given in May 2016
Mrs T says that in May 2016  she was advised  by St. Jamess Place that Mrs F should  invest 
the second property sale proceeds  into 4 BPR schemes and this advice was unsuitable.
Now I appreciate a number of other options  might  have  been available. But ultimately  as this 
advice was never accepted, and advice was sought from a new advisor and acted upon  only 
a few months later, Im satisfied that it isnt material to the outcome of this complaint as to 
whether this advice  was suitable.
advice given between  December 2014  (the date of Mr Fs passing) and May 2016
Mrs T says I was wrong  to conclude that that no more costs and fees were incurred by Mrs F 
investing £350,000 in the manner than she did than she would have incurred  had she 
invested sooner  in an alternative investment and on suitable advice of St. Jamess Place.
However, and I appreciate Mrs Ts strength of feeling on this point, I remain  of the view for 
the reasons Ive already  given that that the cost of investing in a different manner and earlier  
would have resulted in similar costs to those  ultimately incurred by Mrs F.
restricted advice status
Mrs T submits that at no time was she advised  of St. Jamess  Places  restricted  advice 
status. However, and again I appreciate Mrs Ts strength of feeling on this point, I remain of 
the view for the reasons Ive already  given  that Mrs T, on the balance of probabilities, knew, 
or ought to have  known, of St. Jamess Places restricted advice status.
other matters
Mrs T says that St. Jamess Place failed to write any follow  up letters  detailing  its advice and 
recommendations between December 2014  and June 2016  something that it could  and 
should have done. But in my view this doesnt prevent me from being able to make a finding  
on whether what was recommended was or wasnt suitable. I think its also worth  pointing 
out that none of the advice that was given  by St. Jamess  Place  is in dispute.
in summary
As Ive already  noted, Ive considered  what both parties have said and submitted in this case 
- in particular  Mrs Ts substantial response to my provisional decision  very carefully. 
However, having done so (and for the reasons  given) I see no reason to depart  from my 
provisional decision and I now confirm it as final.
Ref: DRN774605520my final decision
My final decision is that St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc must, to the extent it 
hasnt already done so, pay Mrs F:
£500 for the delay in transferring Mr Fs ISA to her and for sending Mrs S an 
erroneous letter in October 2017
£620 for the EPA/LPA issue
interest on the above sum of £620 at 8% simple per annum from the date of the last 
payment to the date of settlement*
£500 for the distress and inconvenience  this whole matter has caused
*HMRC requires  St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc to take off tax from this interest.  
If Mrs F asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T, 
Mr F (junior) and Mrs S (as attorneys for Mrs F) and Mrs T and Mr F (junior) (as executors 
for Mr F) to accept  or reject my decision before 19 November  2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7746055