K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the way U K Insurance Limited (trading  as Direct Line) has dealt with a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to all parties so I will not repeat them  again  in 
detail here.  But in summary  Mr Ls car was stolen  on 5 August 2018. The car was recovered  
about week later. Mr L said he didnt want  the car repaired  as he had concerns  about its 
safety. And he thought it should be written  off. UKIs engineer disagreed  saying the car was 
repairable. The repairs were eventually authorised in around late October 2018 and 
completed in the early  part of 2019.
Mr L is unhappy with the delays in repairing the car and that he was given some incorrect  
information about claiming  for his personal effects.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
UKI didnt handle the claim as well as would be expected. There was an 
unacceptable delay  between 14 September 2018 and 29 October 2018 for the 
repairs to be authorised. That was caused by UKI. But any delays after that later date 
until the repairs were  completed  werent UKIs fault as the repairing garage was 
awaiting parts. UKI also accepts it gave Mr L incorrect information about claiming for 
his personal effects.
During the delay  in September and October Mr L had a hire car but it was smaller 
than the car being repaired.  This wouldve caused some inconvenience. In 
recognition of this and the poor service received UKI should  pay him £100  
compensation.
UKI doesnt agree. It says it booked the car into a specialist garage as soon  as it could. It 
cant control when the garage can complete those checks. They were completed to reassure 
Mr L that the car was repairable. The replacement car provided was in line with the policy 
benefit Mr L had chosen to buy with the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77687872I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
The simple  fact is it took a number  of months  for the repairs to be authorised.  Whatever the 
reason for the checks that were carried out I think they shouldve reasonably been arranged  
and completed quicker than actually happened. And if they had been  Mr L wouldve got his 
car back sooner  and wouldnt  have had to use a much smaller replacement  car for quite so 
long.
Furthermore UKI accepts  it gave  incorrect information to Mr L about making a claim for his 
personal possessions.  It has subsequently  rectified matters which is fair. But that wouldve 
caused Mr L some additional  inconvenience.
Overall I think  the way UKI dealt with these issues has caused  Mr L some additional and 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience which warrants a modest  award of compensation.
Taking everything into account,  including the levels of award  we make,  I agree with the 
investigator that a payment of £100 is fair and reasonable for this.
Overall, I dont  therefore see any compelling  reason  to change  the proposed outcome in this 
case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right U K Insurance  Limited  (trading as Direct Line)  
should pay Mr L £100 compensation.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr L accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr L 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7768787