K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Miss D took out a mortgage and was sold the PPI in 2008. Both Miss D and Halifax say the 
sale took place  in a meeting at a branch.  The PPI was part of a packaged protection  policy  
called a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP). A TMPP could be made up of three 
different elements  a PPI policy,  life cover and critical illness cover.  
Although Miss D had the critical illness element of the TMPP, shes  only complained  about  
the PPI and so thats all that my decision covers.
Among other  things, Miss D says she told Halifax at the time she didnt want  or need the 
PPI. She says it was added without her consent  and she only became aware  she had it 
when she reviewed her mortgage recently.  She says she had very generous sick pay so 
didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ds complaint didnt uphold  it. Miss D disagrees  and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Miss D but I hope the reasons Im about  to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Miss D she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. Because the sale was a while ago, Halifax doesnt have much  of Miss Ds 
PPI paperwork from the time. I dont  think this is unusual or surprising. But from what we 
know of how Halifax sold these policies  in branch around this time and the documents weve  
seen in the past, I think its likely  the paperwork Miss D signed wouldve made it clear the 
PPI was optional.  
I also think its likely the PPI was added to Miss Ds account because  she agreed  to it. I 
know Miss D says this isnt what happened. But Ive looked at the mortgage offer Halifax 
prepared for Miss D in June 2008, along with a demands and needs statement that was 
completed at around the same time. Both refer to the PPI policy. The mortgage offer says 
Miss D has chosen to take it out. A mortgage offer is an important document. I would expect 
Miss D to have read it carefully and, if the PPI had been added without her consent, to raise 
this with Halifax. I cant see anything  to show me she did this. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Miss D, so it needed to make  sure it was right for 
her. I dont  know what steps Halifax took to do this in its meeting with Miss D but, from what  
Ive seen of the policy  terms Halifax has given us and what Miss D says of her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. I say this because: 
Ref: DRN78975212I havent seen anything to make  me think Miss D wasnt  eligible for the policy.  
Its possible Halifax didnt advise her of the main policy exclusions and limitations which  
couldve made  it more  difficult for someone  to make a successful claim. But I havent 
seen anything  to make me think its likely  Miss D was caught by any of these,  so she 
couldve claimed  the full policy benefit had she needed to.
Miss D says she got very generous sick pay and shes  shown  us an extract  from her 
employment contract saying an employee with 5 years or more of service was entitled  to 
eight months full pay, then four months  half pay. But a mortgage is a significant 
financial commitment  and your home  is at risk if you fall behind  on your repayments. 
The PPI wouldve paid Miss Ds mortgage  each month for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident  and sickness claim she made. And this wouldve been on top of her 
sick pay. It would  also have paid out in the same  way if Miss D lost her job. And Miss D 
doesnt say she had any savings or other  insurance policies  she could fall back  on if 
things got difficult. So I think that, despite her work benefits, the PPI still gave her useful 
additional protection. 
I dont know what Halifax said to Miss D about the cost of the policy, though I can see 
its set out in some of the paperwork.  But it looks as if she could afford it, so I dont think  
its cost made it unsuitable for her.
As well as making sure the cover was right for Miss D, Halifax also had to give her enough  
clear information about the key features of the PPI so she could make  an informed choice 
about whether  to buy it. Its possible Halifax  didnt  make some things as clear to Miss D as it 
shouldve. But, as Ive said, I think its likely  Miss D agreed to buy the PPI and it was right for 
her. So I think clearer  information would only have  confirmed  this to her. I dont think  it 
wouldve stopped  her buying  the cover.
I dont think Miss D has lost out because  of what Halifax may have done wrong, so theres 
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7897521