K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) hasnt treated him fairly  when it said it
wouldnt agree  much of a claim he made  after there was a leak in his home.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that, I said I was minded to 
uphold Mr Os complaint, in that I was going to ask UKI to pay more towards repairing the 
damage caused by an escape of water in Mr Os bathroom. A copy  of the provisional  
decision is attached  and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O accepted my provisional  findings.  
UKI says it made the offer it did in order to avoid  a formal decision by this service and 
assumes Mr O didnt  accept that. That is correct  and I explained  this in my provisional 
decision. 
UKI hasnt  provided  any new evidence.  So Im still not persuaded it did as much as it should  
have, when it should have, even if its previous offer was something our investigator  thought  
was fair. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order U K Insurance Limited  to:
Pay Mr Os invoice for £4,500  (Mr O may need to send a copy to UKI if he or we 
havent already  done so).
UKI can deduct any excess (£350) from this amount. It must then add interest at 8% 
simple per year to the difference, from the date Mr O paid the invoice to the date UKI 
refunds his costs.*
Pay Mr O £500 compensation for the way its handled this claim.
*UKI is required by HMRC to take tax off this amount before paying Mr O. Mr O might  be 
able to claim that back, so UKI must  give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax it 
deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77880782Copy of Provisional decision
complaint
Mr O complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) hasnt treated him fairly  when it said it
wouldnt agree  much of a claim he made  after there was a leak in his home.
background
In late March 2018 Mr O noticed  water  damage to his kitchen ceiling.  Investigations
identified a leak under  Mr Os bath, and fairly extensive damage to his bathroom floor. Mr O
contacted UKI which agreed to look at his claim.  UKI later said that most of the damage  had
been caused by failed  sealant round the bath, and that damage  building  up gradually was
excluded from cover. It wouldnt pay most of the repair  cost.
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  said UKI hadnt  been fair, as Mr O
wouldnt be aware that the sealant had failed and was letting water through. She thought UKI
should pay for the repairs and also suggested  Mr O should receive a disturbance allowance
in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr O provided  a repair estimate of about £6,500, although this included more  work than UKI
was responsible for. So Mr O provided  a new quote,  for £4,500 plus VAT.
UKI said it would  pay the claim, but only the amount it would have had to pay to get the work
done, which was just under £2,300 including VAT.  That reduced  by a further £350 once
Mr Os excess  was deducted.
Our investigator thought this was fair, but Mr O doesnt think  its enough as hes had to have
the work  done   or live without a functioning bathroom for many  months.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to comment in detail on whether UKI must meet Mr Os claim or not, as UKI has
already agreed  to do that. I would say, though,  that having looked at the information
available, I agree with our investigators  conclusions. Instead Ill concentrate on how much I
think UKI should pay to settle the claim.
Id normally agree that UKI need only pay, as a cash settlement, what  it would have paid to
have the work done. Thats a reflection of the terms and conditions in Mr Os policy. They
say that UKI can choose whether to repair the damage or pay the cost  but if Mr O chooses
to take a cash settlement rather than repairs UKI need only pay what it would have spent,
rather than the value of a quote Mr O might obtain.
And theres  often a difference in these figures  sometimes a large one  because  insurers
like UKI can negotiate better  discounts  than ordinary customers might.
However, in this particular  case, UKI wasnt going to pay Mr Os claim  or at least not the
Ref: DRN77880783majority of it  until this service got involved. That left Mr O without a bathroom for months
and months, and UKI knew he had a young family.  I think it reasonable for him to have  the
work done after a period of time, as its unreasonable to expect him to live without his full
bathroom facilities for more than a short time  maybe a few weeks at most. The work was
done in August, by which time Mr O and his family  had been without the bath for about five
months.
If UKI had agreed Mr Os claim when it should have, then it could fairly have given Mr O a
choice between repairs or a lower  cash amount.  But UKI didnt agree the claim, so Im
persuaded Mr O was left with no choice but to have the work done at the higher price.
That means I currently think  UKI should  pay the full value of Mr Os invoice  thats £4,500
plus VAT, less his £350 excess. Mr O has also had to use his own money  to pay for the work
 so hes been deprived of the use of that money since paying the invoice. I think its fair to
ask UKI to pay interest  at 8% simple  per annum from the date Mr O paid the bill until UKI
pays him. And I think UKI should  also pay some  compensation for leaving Mr O and his
family without a fully functioning bathroom for several months.  That must have caused a lot
of inconvenience  for him and his family, and I think £500 is a reasonable sum.
Our investigator suggested UKI also pay a disturbance  allowance in line with the terms and
conditions in Mr Os policy. I havent seen anything that specifically mentions payment if
Mr O doesnt leave  the property, and I currently think  this is accounted  for within  the
compensation Ive suggested.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  and ask U K Insurance Limited  to pay Mr Os invoice,
interest and compensation as outlined above.
Sue Peters
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7788078