K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage Credit) has treated 
her whilst shes been experiencing  financial difficulty and ill health. Shes unhappy  with the 
way Engage Credit  has administered her mortgage during this time.
background
In 2007, Mrs C took out an interest only mortgage,  for £180,000 with a term of 15 years.  
Engage Credit has been administering the mortgage since March 2013.
Unfortunately, Mrs Cs health and personal  circumstances have meant shes  struggled to 
make her monthly  payments. Shes had long periods where shes been  unable  to work, and 
shes now retired. As a result, the mortgage  has been in arrears for several years. Engage  
Credit took legal action  and the court issued a suspended  possession  order  in September  
2017. This said that Mrs C would  need  to pay her monthly payment plus a set amount 
towards the arrears,  otherwise Engage Credit could  move to take possession  of the property.
Mrs C complained to Engage Credit in February  2019. She complained  about the interest, 
fees and charges Engage  Credit  has applied to the account, and is worried  about  losing her 
home. She also complains about Engage Credit taking legal action. To resolve things,  
Engage Credit offered to reverse some  of the fees totalling £192.  These  fees were applied  in 
months where Engage Credit had received  payments  amounting to 80% of Mrs Cs monthly 
payments from contributions she made  herself,  and funds received from the Department of 
Work and Pensions (DWP). Mrs C wasnt happy with Engage Credits offer and referred  her 
complaint to us.
Since the complaint has come to us, Engage Credit looked at taking further  legal action, but 
agreed to put this on hold while we considered the complaint.
Our investigator thought we could only consider what  had happened  for six years prior to 
Mrs C raising  the complaint. She thought Engage Credits offer was fair, and didnt 
recommend they do anything  further  to resolve  things.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 6 February 2020.  This is what  I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on the information Ive seen, 
I dont intend to uphold the complaint, but for different reasons than the investigator. 
Engage Credit has administered Mrs Cs mortgage since March  2013, so Ive considered  the 
way theyve treated  her since then. Mrs C hasnt disputed the time frame the investigators 
considered under this complaint, so I havent considered  time limits  in this decision.
Id firstly  like to say that Im sorry to hear about the difficult time Mrs C has had over the 
years. Shes had long periods of ill health herself,  and was caring  for her mother who was 
also very unwell, and has now sadly passed  away. I can appreciate the impact this has had 
on her life, and her ability to manage  her finances.
Ref: DRN71923782When a borrower is finding it difficult to afford  their mortgage payments, Id expect the 
business to take account  of their situation,  and show forbearance in the way its managing 
the mortgage account  taking particular account  of that borrowers  individual circumstances. 
Considering everything  thats happened over the years, Im persuaded Engage Credit has 
broadly done this.
Ive carefully considered  the contact notes  for Mrs Cs mortgage account.  For the most part, 
both Mrs C and Engage Credit were  communicating with each other regularly about the 
payments Mrs C was able to make, taking into account what  she could  afford.
I can see that, for any periods where Mrs C was able to make  her full monthly  payment, 
Engage Credit hasnt  charged her any fees.  But there were periods where Mrs C wasnt  able 
to make her full monthly  payment, and there  wasnt  a reduced payment arrangement in 
place. Engage Credit  has already offered to reverse fees charged where contributions from 
Mrs C and the DWP covered more than 80% of her monthly  payment,  which  I think is fair.
Ive thought about the other times  arrears  fees were charged, and whether Engage  Credit  
should have agreed a reduced payment arrangement  or another  concession  with Mrs C 
during those times.
I can see that on several occasions Engage  Credit  had tried to find out more about  Mrs Cs 
financial position, and her plans for the mortgage.  They asked Mrs C for information about 
her income and expenditure, and health, which it often didnt receive from her for some time. 
I dont think that a mortgage lender  always needs  evidence from its borrowers to agree a 
concession while theyre in financial difficulties, but I dont think Engage Credits requests 
were unreasonable, given  the way that Mrs C tended to make  her payments. 
Having said this, there were also times when Engage Credit gave long periods in between 
arrangements without taking further action - when  Mrs C kept them updated  about  her health 
and her circumstances.  Which I think was fair of them  to do. The terms and conditions, and 
the tariff of charges  for the mortgage  account, set out the fees that will be applied  when the 
mortgage is in arrears. Looking at the way Engage Credit have administered Mrs Cs 
mortgage account, the concessions theyve offered and the fees theyve already refunded, I 
wont be asking them to do any more.  
I understand Mrs C feels that the remaining balance of her loan is too high because  of these 
fees that have  been added,  and the interest  thats  been charged on these fees. But as Im 
persuaded the fees have  been added fairly, Im also satisfied the interest thats been applied 
is fair too  as the fees remain  unpaid along  with the rest of the outstanding balance.
Court action
Engage Credit took court action, and obtained a suspended possession  order,  in September  
2017. It looked at taking  further legal action in 2018, but agreed to place action on hold while 
we considered Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive thought carefully about whether or not it was reasonable for Engage Credit to take legal  
action on both occasions. Overall, I think it was, and Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN71923783When Engage Credit took legal action in 2017,  Mrs C was, for the most part, managing to 
make her full monthly payment. But she wasnt able to pay much extra towards the arrears,  
and so wasnt meeting  the arrangements shed agreed with Engage  Credit.  The arrears  on 
the mortgage need to be repaid  by the end of the term, at which  point Mrs C will also need to 
repay the outstanding capital balance. 
I can see from the contact notes that Engage  Credit  were regularly having  to call Mrs C to 
chase up payments, and remind her of the arrangements to pay. The arrears werent 
reducing quickly enough to be repaid by the end of the term, and there were  no change of 
circumstances planned for Mrs C. So I think it was reasonable for Engage Credit to seek  a 
suspended possession order, to make sure an arrangement would be in place so that the 
arrears would be repaid  by the end of the term. Im satisfied  Engage  Credit  kept Mrs C 
informed about  the action  they were taking,  and signposted her to seek  independent  advice 
about her situation  so she could explore her options   which  is what  Id expect them to do.
In 2018, Mrs C wasnt able to meet the terms of the suspended possession order,  or make 
her monthly payments. So I think it was reasonable for Engage  Credit  to look at taking 
further legal  action at this time, as the arrears were  building up  meaning Mrs Cs position  
could worsen if Engage  Credit took no action.  I think it was fair for Engage  Credit  to put that 
action on hold while we considered this complaint.
As Im satisfied it was fair for Engage Credit to take legal  action  when they did, Im also 
satisfied its fair for them to apply the costs  of this to the mortgage account   in line with the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage.  
However, I can appreciate  why Mrs C is worried that she may lose her home.  So I want to be 
clear that whilst I think Engage Credit  have treated Mrs C fairly under the scope of this 
complaint, Id expect  them  to continue this, particularly as the mortgage reaches the end of the 
term. It will need to give fair and reasonable consideration to any proposals Mrs C makes for 
repaying the capital  balance,  and give her reasonable time to allow  any plans  to complete.
responses to my provisional  decision
Engage Credit acknowledged  receipt of the decision but didnt provide any further comments.
Mrs C repeated her circumstances, and what shes been through  over the life of the mortgage. 
She explained shes looking into planning  permission to make some changes  to the house that 
will allow her to repay the mortgage,  including the arrears at the end of the term. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mrs Cs latest comments.
I do understand that Mrs C has gone  through extremely difficult times over the years, and 
has tried to pay Engage  Credit what she can to try and clear  the arrears.  But she hasnt 
provided any new information or said anything which changes  my original decision.
Ref: DRN71923784I would encourage  Mrs C to seek independent advice about her situation, as the end of the 
mortgage term is now approaching. I appreciate Mrs C has got plans for how she may be 
able to repay the mortgage, so shell need to keep Engage Credit updated with these. I 
expect Engage Credit  to give fair consideration to Mrs Cs proposals, and continue to show 
forbearance considering Mrs Cs circumstances. 
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7192378