K823xsummary of complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that HSBC are asking for their mortgage to be repaid despite them 
being in discussion  with HSBC about  Mr Ms business loan that has a legal charge on the 
property as well. 
background to complaint
Mr and Ms M have a mortgage  and a homeowner loan, which they took out with HSBC  in 
2002, secured  on a property where they both lived. Mr and Ms Ms marriage has ended. Ms 
M still lives at the property, but Mr M doesnt.  The original loans were on a repayment basis 
and were for about £73,000. These loans were switched to interest  only in 2010 following  the 
break-up of their marriage.  HSBC say that these loans were to be repaid in 2012 and 2017 
respectively.
Mr M operated as a sole trader until 2011  and during that period his business also had a 
banking relationship with HSBC. The business  had financial  problems  partly  from a venture 
abroad that suffered following exchange rate movements. Mr M says the only way he could 
see to move forward was to isolate the business  debt to HSBC by removing it from the 
business and taking it on as a personal  liability. Mr M says that he ceased using HSBC  as a 
daily trading facility in December  2011.  In June 2012, all those outstanding debts were rolled 
into one amount totalling £66,850. At that stage Mr Ms intention was to clear the debt by 
selling his house but then the house suffered serious flood damage and Ms M a serious 
illness. The property was put on the market  in 2016.    
Mr and Ms M say that an agreement was made in 2012 in respect of the smaller loan that 
brought it down  below £3,000 and there was about £29,000 outstanding on the larger loan 
both of which would be paid off from the sale of the property. The second loan matured in 
2017. 
Mr and Ms M were trying to sell the property and got a buyer for the property  in 2017 with 
the price agreed  at £264,000. There had been  a previous offer received  that fell through of 
£275,000. The buyer applied for a mortgage  with HSBC, but the buyers valuer  valued  the 
property at £180,000 and an after-repair  valuation of £240,000.  That sale fell through. Mr 
and Ms M were  unhappy  at the valuation and complained to HSBC in September 2017. 
HSBC wrote to Mr and Ms M on 20 October 2017 and it didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and 
Ms M brought a complaint about this valuation to us in May 2019, but I issued a decision that 
as they brought the complaint outside  the six-month period, we were  unable to consider  that 
complaint. 
After the term of the mortgage matured, HSBC  agreed a period of forbearance until February
2018 to allow Mr and Ms M to sell the property. HSBC say that Mr and Ms M didnt contact
them about  these  loans during that time but about  a business loan which was also secured
on the property.  In August 2018, HSBC  wrote to Mr and Ms M asking for the mortgage to be
repaid. Ms M was unwell at the time and they objected to this letter being sent.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She
didnt believe that it was unfair  for HSBC to find out about Mr and Ms Ms plans or how they
could repay  the remainder  of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN77604022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M has a separate complaint about how HSBC  managed  his business 
account but that is a complaint that Im not looking at here. Although  Mr M would  like both 
complaints to be dealt  together,  they are clearly  separate complaints about different  services 
provided by HSBC. In addition, Ms M who is a party  to this complaint was not a partner in Mr 
Ms business  and so would  have no complaint of her own arising out of how HSBC  dealt with 
her husbands  business.  I do see that the bank has a charge over the property to secure 
money that it says is due to it from Mr Ms business  of about £70,200. There  is an email 
dated 27 June  2018 where  the bank says it is taking no action in respect of that debt until the 
property is sold or transferred.
I also understand that Mr and Ms M are annoyed  that it was HSBCs mortgage department 
who engaged  the surveyor for their purchaser  but was unable to value their property at the 
agreed price. But that is a complaint  in which I ve already decided we cannot  consider. 
What I can consider is whether HSBC dealt with Mr and Ms M fairly when their mortgages 
matured.
Looking through  the contact notes retained  by the bank,  it seems that since  2013 following 
the breakdown  of their marriage Mr and Ms M have wanted to sell this property which  would 
pay off the loans to HSBC. Mr M hasnt lived in the property since that time.  Although one of 
the loans matured in 2012 an arrangement  was made to make payments to that loan over an 
extended period  with the balance being  paid when the house was sold.  
I can see from the notes that there was a flood  which among other problems held up the 
marketing of the property and in the summer of 2014, there  is reference  to an agent 
attending at the house  to do a valuation and that the intention  was to put the property on the 
market. There is a note that Ms M had a period  of ill-health and retired  from work  but also 
that in April 2015, the property was on the market  for £350,000 but then in December that it 
was on the market for £295,000 with no offers  but it was hoped that interest in the property 
would pick up in the spring.  In June 2016, there  is mention of a sale falling through and that 
the asking price was reduced from £295,000 to £279,000. Then in February 2017 there was 
an offer of £274,000. In August 2017  there  is a reference to the property being sold and 
waiting for completion  but in November of that year HSBC was told that the sale had fallen 
through.
In November 2017 the main mortgage also matured. The notes indicate that in November 
2017, HSBC agreed  to hold the account until February 2018  for an update on the sale. Then  
in August 2018, there is a record  of a conversation with Mr M where he says that the 
property isnt on the market and that it wouldnt be on the market  until the spring of 2019. At 
that stage there is a note that HSBC  issued a final demand for the balance of £31,539.08.
The difficulty  seems to be that the house hasnt been sold although  it is now three years 
since the mortgage matured. Mr and Ms M are asking that HSBC  wait until the house  is sold 
and they will pay the mortgage interest  in the meantime.  After reviewing the contact  notes, it 
appears that although the secured loan expired in 2012, HSBC  was content with the 
Ref: DRN77604023arrangement for the repayment of that loan with the possibility of it being discharged from 
the sale of the house. 
This complaint followed from HSBCs letter in August  2018  calling in its loan. When  Mr and 
Ms M complained, HSBC said that it felt that this Final Demand notice was correctly sent in 
view of the length of time since the loan terms expired and without there being a formal  
repayment plan being in place. That letter  followed a period when there had been no contact  
from Mr and Ms M. I understand at that time that Mr M suffered  an injury to his arm and was 
more concerned about his business debt to HSBC, but I consider that as the mortgage had 
now matured it was reasonable for them to contact  Mr and Ms M about their plans.
The repayment vehicle  has always  been the sale of the house.  Mr and Ms M say they have 
been trying  to sell it since they repaired the property after the flood in 2015 but have  so far 
been unable  to do it. What strikes me over this extended period is how few offers  there have 
been. Ive seen no suggestion of a further  potential  sale since he last one fell through in 
November 2017,  now three years  ago. Indeed, it seems  that Mr and Ms M took the property 
off the market. The only explanation appears to be that they want  to have it in a presentable 
state for sale although I presume it was presentable for sale in November  2017  when the 
sale fell through.  
Mr M also says that he believed the email dated  27 June 2018 from the bank saying it is 
taking no action in respect  of the business  debt until the property is sold or transferred  
indicated that HSBC wasnt looking for the property to be sold.  I dont believe that this is a 
reasonable interpretation of that correspondence and its clear that HSBC  has been relying 
on the sale of the property  to pay off the mortgages due by Mr and Ms M. Following the 
maturity of the first loan in 2012 it allowed Mr and Ms M to pay it off on the terms they 
wanted. Since the main mortgage  matured  in 2017, Mr and Ms M have had a further three 
years to sell the property but have been  unable to do so and no further offers have been 
recorded. 
Under the terms of the loan agreements HSBC  is entitled to be repaid. If Mr and Ms M are 
unable to repay the debt at maturity, we would have expected HSBC to treat them  fairly.  I 
would have expected the bank to contact Mr and Ms M about  the repayment  of the debt, to 
see how they plan to do so. From  reading the contact  notes  that seems to have happened.   
In this case Mr and Ms Ms plans have  always been to sell the house. I would also have 
expected HSBC to allow  Mr and Ms M a reasonable period  to sell the property and the bank 
appears to have done that. I appreciate that the bank issuing a final demand in August 2018 
may have  been  unwelcome for Mr and Ms M, but I consider that it was reasonable in the 
absence of any concrete  developments  in the sale of the property for HSBC  to do that.
In reading this complaint I note that all correspondence has been coming from Mr M with 
little input from Ms M. But Mr M doesnt live in the property whereas Ms M does and unless 
an arrangement can be made with HSBC, Ms M may not be able to live there in the future. I 
urge Mr and Ms M to make contact with HSBC  to see if they can come  to some arrangement 
about repaying the mortgage debt. But for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.  
Bearing in mind the current environment, I would also like to remind HSBC about  the current  
FCA guidance for taking  action to recover mortgage debt given the impact  of the global 
pandemic and expect them to continue to treat Mr M and Ms M in line with this guidance as it 
continues to evolve  over time.
     
Ref: DRN77604024My decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 December  2020
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7760402