K820x#14complaint
Mr K complained about the value Advantage Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
motorcycle when he claimed  under his motorcycle insurance policy.
background 
Mr Ks motorcycle was destroyed in a fire. Advantage offered him £4,275 for it, less his 
policy excess. Mr K thought that this was too low. He said he couldnt find a similar 
replacement for that amount. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
theyd valued  his motorcycle fairly. Mr K didnt agree and so his case  has been passed to me 
to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage have  to pay Mr K his motorcycles market value. His policy  says what  this is on 
page 29: 
The cost of replacing  your motorcycle in the United  Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of a similar  make, model, age and condition, Publications may be used 
which refer to vehicle  values such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value, with an 
allowance being  made for the mileage, condition and circumstances of purchase by you
The investigator explained to Mr K our approach regarding complaints about motorcycle  
valuations. We dont  decide what the market  value of a motorcycle  is. Instead  we consider 
whether or not the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount  having  regard to the 
valuations in the motor trade guides.
Advantage showed us that they considered two of these guides  and averaged their 
valuations. Advantages offer to Mr K was more than that. So they felt that their valuation  
was reasonable.
I see that the investigator checked the available trade guides  for Mr Ks motorcycles  make 
and model. In doing that he took into account its low mileage. He took valuations  from three  
motor-trade guides,  the two Advantage  had used plus another.  The highest of those three 
valuations was less than what Advantage had offered  Mr K. So the investigator considered  
that Advantages offer was reasonable and that theyd done what they had to under his 
policy.
Mr K didnt accept this. He felt that thered been no real market place research. He said as 
follows. His motorcycle was no longer in production and was in outstanding condition with 
extra features  such  as its saddle, handgrips and pannier. He believed they enhanced its 
value. Hed seen motorcycles advertised at more than what  Advantage offered him although 
they were older  than his, with higher mileage, and without the enhancing additions.  
Advantage hadnt provided any evidence of a motorcycle  with similar mileage to his available 
anywhere in the UK. 
Ref: DRN75059222I think that the amounts sellers advertise for motorcycles dont properly reflect their value, 
because motorcycles usually sell for less than the advertised price.  So I dont think that 
adverts prove the actual selling price. Its clear that Advantage  valued  Mr Ks motorcycle  
according to the trade guides.  The prices  in these guides are linked to likely monthly 
nationwide sales figures and, although  valuing a motorcycle is not an exact science, I think 
that they give a reasonable  and independent guide and take account of a number of factors  
including mileage, condition, and any features such as low mileage.  Overall, I find them 
more persuasive than adverts and websites. Even Mr Ks motorcycle  model was out of 
production now, it did feature in the guides so I cant say it was unfair  for Mr K to rely on 
them.
Mr K questioned the reliability of the guides for assessing his motorcycle. He said hed 
researched motorcycle auction listings and none of his type of motorcycle were  listed,  of any 
mileage. So he didnt see how the guides could have included a statistically significant 
number of motorcycles like his. But as the investigator explained to Mr K, the guides take 
into account prices of motorcycles advertised online,  and sales  at dealerships not advertised 
online as well as nationwide auction sales. So I think that they provide a comprehensive 
overview of the sales market. 
Mr K felt that the investigator should have given an explanation of the algorithm used  by the 
guides to prove that they do take into account low mileage. But as the investigator explained, 
thats their confidential  commercial information,  so I don't think  its reasonable to expect 
them to release that. 
He also thought it unfair that the guides valuations included  prices from motorcycle  auctions.  
He said he couldnt  go to those but would be restricted to buying  a new motorcycle from 
retail dealers  or by private sale. But I dont think thats something that Advantage need to 
take into account in valuing his motorcycle. Nor does it stop the guides  from being a reliable 
fair reflection of market value across  the sales sector as a whole. 
As regards  his motorcycles additions, we generally consider that they dont  add value, and I 
see that his policy does not cover  additional amounts for those items. Mr K was also 
unhappy that Advantages offer didnt cover what  he said were the other costs of buying  a 
new motorcycle. These included travelling to buy it and transporting it home. But I dont think  
that what his policy  says about market  value does cover such  incidental costs.  I think  that its 
reference to circumstances of purchase  refers to the past purchase of the insured 
motorcycle and not to a future purchase of another motorcycle.  
So overall I think that Advantage have decided Mr Ks motorcycles  value fairly in line with 
his policy  terms and that it is reasonable. I do see that Mr K is upset that he has lost his 
motorcycle in unfortunate  circumstances,  and that he wants to make sure that Advantage 
pay him a fair value  for it. But I think that Advantage have done that, and as Im satisfied that 
their settlement offer is a reasonable  one, I dont require them to offer any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN75059223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7505922