K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by Marks & Spencer,  Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have 
taken responsibility  for the sale. To keep things simple, Ive only referred  to Allianz during 
this decision.
background
Mrs K applied for a store card in 1994.  At the same time she bought a PPI policy.
The PPI cost 64p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It would have paid 15% of 
the outstanding balance  each month  if Mrs K was off work  sick or lost her job until the 
outstanding balance (at the start of the claim)  had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Mrs K didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form Mrs K completed at the time of sale. 
Theres a separate  section for the PPI. It makes it clear that the cover is optional. And if the 
consumer wanted  to take the PPI they had to tick the box,  write their name out in full and 
provide their date of birth. These sections were  completed with Mrs Ks details.  They could 
have been left blank. Mrs Ks representatives suggest this would have  been  done on her 
behalf by the store  assistant. I dont  know if this is the case, but I do know that Mrs K signed  
the form. The section  was prominent and required  her personal information.  
So, on balance I think Mrs K bought the PPI knowing  she had a choice about it, even if she 
understandably doesnt remember  this nearly  25 years later.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that Allianz made a tailored recommendation to Mrs 
K to take PPI. This means Allianz didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for her. So for 
example, Mrs K has told us that she didnt need  PPI because he would have been entitled to 
generous sick pay  but Allianz didnt have  to take this into account when selling Mrs K PPI. 
Instead it would have been  for Mrs K to decide whether or not she wanted  to take PPI 
despite her existing repayment provisions.
However, Allianz did have  to provide  Mrs K with clear information  in particular about the 
costs, benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy   so that she could decide for 
herself if the PPI was right for her. Its possible  the information Allianz gave Mrs K wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. This in itself doesnt  mean the PPI was mis-sold  as I have to 
also consider whether  better information  would have put her off taking the PPI.
Ref: DRN79086532I think Mrs K wouldve  understood  enough about  the PPI to know that it was meant to cover  
her repayments if she couldnt  work. So, I think she had enough information to know whether 
she wanted or needed this type of cover.  
While the significant  exclusions may not have been  made clear Mrs K doesnt appear  to 
have been affected by any of them. 
The cost was relatively low for the benefit  it provided. And I havent seen anything  which  
makes me think it mightve  been unaffordable for Mrs K. Mrs K couldve cancelled  the policy 
at any time without losing  out financially.
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think  Mrs K as lost out as a result of 
anything Allianz  might have done  wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint, so it follows that Allianz Insurance Plc dont have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7908653