K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Frenkel Topping Limited (FTL) is responsible for an avoidable and 
unexpected Capital Gains Tax (CGT) liability arising from its recommendation of a transfer 
of assets in November 2016.  
FTL says the transfer advice was suitable;  that a minor potential CGT liability was expected  
but that did not alter suitability; that the greater CGT  liability that later arose  resulted from 
erroneous valuation/gains  information from a third party Discretionary Investment Manager 
(DIM); and that the error remained undisclosed until after the transfer.
background
The key events are as follows:
October 2016  the DIM sent an email to FTL to confirm  that the potential total gains 
from the portfolio  of assets, if liquidated  at the time, would be £11,900 and that £170 
of that years CGT allowance  had already been used at the time.
November 2016  FTL recommended the transfer, which  involved adoption of a new 
investment strategy and movement  of the portfolio  from the DIM to another 
manager/platform. Assets were  due to be realised in the process. FTL used 
information it received  from the DIM to conclude that a minor amount of CGT (£97  
based on the tax years CGT allowance of £11,100)  would  arise  from that and that 
this did not alter suitability of its recommendation.
December 2016  Mr and Mrs M proceeded with the recommendation and assets 
were liquidated  by the DIM in this month.  They produced a total net gain of 
£19,995.35.
January and February 2017  the new manager also liquidated assets which  raised a 
total net gain of £4,712.83, and it says this was within  the relevant available  CGT  
allowance but it was not made  aware  that the gains from the DIMs disposals had 
already exceeded the allowance.
Mr and Mrs M submitted their complaint to FTL in 2018. The CGT liability  they faced, due to 
the transfer, was much  more than £97  they gave an estimate of £2,713. They say the 
transfer advice  was unsuitable in this context; that suitable advice would have been based  
on the accurate  information about potential gains  and CGT liability; and that suitable advice 
would also have been to conduct the transfer  over two tax years in order to mitigate CGT by 
using each years  CGT  allowance.
FTL disputes the complaint and says its role as an Independent Financial Adviser  (IFA)  was 
limited to recommending the transfer; that its recommendation was suitable and, with 
regards to the CGT aspect, was based  on information from the DIM; that it was entitled to 
rely upon that information and, as it was not the investment manager, it was not responsible 
for verifying  it; and that responsibility  for the error  has been  conceded  by the DIM so Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim should be to the DIM.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and argued  that the DIM had been recommended/selected by FTL 
at the outset  prior to 2016  so it ought to have conducted due diligence in this respect; 
and it ought reasonably to be responsible to them for any failure in that due diligence  and for 
the error,  especially as their relationship  was directly with FTL.
Ref: DRN70220442One of our investigators  considered the matter and agreed with FTL. He concluded FTL 
relied on the DIMs information in good  faith,  with regards to potential CGT liability, and that 
its overall transfer recommendation was well reasoned in terms of the need to realise  assets 
in the process.  He also noted that FTL had a disclaimer in the agreed terms of service  that 
excluded responsibility  for accountancy  or legal  advice.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this outcome, for broadly the same  reasons they previously  
submitted in support of their complaint.  The investigator did not change  his view but he 
attempted, without success, to mediate a resolution between  the parties. The matter  was 
then referred to an ombudsman. 
I gave preliminary consideration to the matter and to evidence  which  appeared to suggest 
FTL was more than an IFA in the relationship   and was instead  primary investment 
manager for the portfolio.  I considered  that if this  and evidence  of investment management 
terms about a responsibility to monitor  and report on performance and valuation of the 
portfolio  is true it creates  a basis on which FTL should have verified  the DIMs information 
and could be ultimately responsible for the error.
The investigator assisted  in sharing my preliminary  considerations with the parties.  Mr and 
Mrs M welcomed them. FTL disagreed and clarified  with submissions of signed historical 
agreement documents   that it was indeed  an IFA in the matter,  limited only to 
recommending the transfer and with no management responsibility or responsibility for the 
DIM. I assessed FTLs response  and evidence, accepted them and revised  my initial 
consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint about unsuitability relates directly to the CGT liability matter. This is what 
features in the submissions made  by both parties  and this is what  I have mainly  focused on. 
For the sake of completeness, I do not consider that any other  aspects of the recommended  
transfer have  been  established  as unreasonable. The change  of management/platform was 
based on agreement  between the parties with the objective of having a change  to the 
portfolios investment strategy. The CGT liability matter appears  to have been what, in the 
main, prompted the complaint.
The liability  arose from assets which were liquidated by both the DIM and the new manager. 
FTL is neither firm. I am satisfied with its signed  agreements with Mr and Mrs M, in 2008  and 
2009, and the IFA declaration signed  in 2016,  defining FTL as Mr and Mrs Ms IFA 
throughout that period.  It appears to have  recommended  the use of the DIM within the 2009  
agreement however it continued  to limit its role to being an IFA and it shared no 
management responsibility with the DIM. It shares  a group of companies  with the new 
investment manager  but it also remains a separate entity to it and does not appear to have 
shared management  responsibility in this respect.
Information received  by FTL, from the DIM,  appears  to have been fed to the new manager  
and on that basis  it considered that the gains it realised in early 2017 were  within  the 
available CGT allowance for the relevant tax year. The gains realised by the DIM in 
December 2016  significantly mismatched the erroneous information  it had given FTL about  
potential gains in October that year. FTL was entitled to rely on the information given in 
Ref: DRN70220443October and I have not seen a ground  upon which, as part of its IFA service to Mr and Mrs 
M, it was obliged to verify that information  especially as it was not involved in the DIMs 
management of the portfolio. I also have not seen evidence that FTL was made aware of the 
gains that were actually  realised in December.
In the above context, and whilst  I understand why Mr and Mrs M relied  on the information 
they received  from FTL (and had no cause to doubt  it), I do not consider  that FTL can 
reasonably be held responsible for the gains/valuation information error which then led to the 
unexpected CGT liability. FTL also had no cause to doubt that information and available 
evidence supports the conclusion that it learnt about  the error much  later (after the liability  
arose).
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Under  the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject  my 
decision before  14 March 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7022044