K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Nationwide  wont refund the money he lost as the result of a scam.
background
Mr M is a vulnerable adult. He suffers from mental health illnesses that, in the words of his
psychiatrist, are complex and enduring. These mental health  illnesses  have an impact on
his decision-making abilities and make  him vulnerable to manipulation. There is nothing in
his records to suggest he lacks the capacity to manage his finances, or make  significant
financial decisions, but he does have help when filling in forms or responding to
correspondence. Mr M is being represented in this complaint by a specialist organisation that
supports him, who I will refer to as Company I.
In November 2018 Mr M was contacted by somebody claiming  to work for a company that
operates a Foreign Exchange (Forex) trading platform and offered Mr M the opportunity to
trade in cryptocurrency.  Mr M was told hed make  good returns  on his money. This person
(who I shall refer to as T) recommended Mr M take out a personal  loan and credit  card to
fund the cryptocurrency  purchases.
Mr M says T asked him to share  his laptop  screen and proceeded to help him apply for a
£5,000 loan on 12 November 2018.  Mr M says T told him to say the purpose  of the loan was
to buy a car. The loan was provisionally  accepted on the basis Mr M could prove his
earnings. Mr M also applied for a credit card later that day, but this was declined.
The following  day on 13 November 2018,  Mr M attended  branch to discuss  the loan
application. It was established his earning  were slightly less than what  was put on the loan
application, but Nationwide deemed the loan affordable  and it was successfully processed
and the £5,000 deposited into Mr Ts account that day.
Later that day Mr M attempted a card payment of £4,273.27 to EU Pay Limited for what  he
thought was him buying cryptocurrency to trade with. Nationwide  blocked  this payment and
spoke to Mr M on the phone.
The advisor asked  Mr M what the payment was for and he told her he was buying a car and
the seller wanted  payment in cryptocurrency  which  is why he was purchasing the
cryptocurrency. Mr M told the advisor  hed seen a photo of the car and spoken to the seller
and was able to tell the advisor what type of car it was. The advisor asked if he had any
paperwork and he told her he didnt,  nor could he remember what  website hed seen the car
on when asked. The advisor proceeded to tell Mr M that this was a very unusual way to buy
a car and that she believed it was likely a scam. She emphasised  this several times
throughout the call. Mr M told the advisor  he wouldnt release the cryptocurrency until he had
the car  he told the advisor he was in the same  city that the car was being sold from and
that hed made purchases from this cryptocurrency company before.
The advisor told Mr M she wouldnt  recommend making the payment, but it was his choice if
he wanted to proceed.  She explained that if he didnt receive the car, it wouldnt be able to
claw back the money.  Mr M said he understood, and a scam declaration was read to him.
The declaration included the following:
Payments for an investment as a result  of a cold call or to help an acquaintance due to
an extreme personal circumstance are also often signs of a scam and lead to an
Ref: DRN70377102unrecoverable loss of your money.  Fraudsters  will often ask you to hide reason for payment
to reduce the risk of detection when questioned by your bank 
Following this the block was lifted.  The following day on 14 November 2018, Mr M made two
card payments. The first was made  in Euros and totalled £874.29 and the second,  to a
different merchant, was made in dollars and totalled  £3,321.07.  Both of these transactions
debited successfully.
The following  day Mr M wanted to begin  trading and so was directed by T to log into his
trading account.  The account appeared blocked  and when Mr M asked  T why this was he
was told he had to provide  ID. He did this but the account still appeared blocked and T told
him his ID (a bus pass) wasnt acceptable. Mr M told T he wanted his money  back as he
couldnt access his trading  account.  However, T stopped responding to Mr M. After  further
attempted contact with the company, Mr M received an email to say his ID documents had
been received  and his account activated. However, when Mr M asked for his money  back
again, his requests went unanswered.
Following this Mr M notified Nationwide of the situation with the help of Company I.
Company I sent Nationwide evidence of Mr Ms mental health condition,  explaining that hed
been admitted  to hospital as a result of the scam.  It also supplied screenshots of the email
communication between  him and T, showing  Mr M asking to withdraw his funds.
Nationwide requested Mr M provide it with more information before it could raise a
chargeback for the two card payments.  Company I responded  to Nationwide  letting it know
Mr M didnt  have any more information  than what he had already supplied  and requested
details for the Financial  Ombudsman Service so Mr M could raise a complaint.
Nationwide issued its final response explaining that it could  not raise  a chargeback without
the further evidence. It didnt  think Mr M had followed  the correct  procedure for withdrawing
his funds from the trading platform and he would need to contact  the merchant directly to do
this. It also directed Mr M to contact the police  about  the fact he was forced into applying for
the loan and credit card.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service.  Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was of
the opinion Nationwide shouldnt have lent to Mr M, pointing  out that hed put contradictory
and misleading  information about  his employment  status and income across the credit card
and loan applications. Therefore, he felt Nationwide shouldve been  on notice something
wasnt quite right and asked Mr M more questions  before proceeding with the loan. He was
satisfied that if it had done this, the scam wouldve come to light and been prevented. He
also felt Nationwide  shouldve attempted a chargeback and this would likely have been
successful given the evidence that Mr M was dealing with a scam company.
Nationwide disagreed. It didnt feel it had lent irresponsibly to Mr M, pointing out that it had
done the required checks prior to the loan being granted  it wasnt  to know he was being
dishonest with regard  to the loan purpose and the information it did have didnt raise any
alarms. It doesnt believe  it couldve done anymore to prevent the loan being taken or the
subsequent repayments, pointing to the conversation it had with Mr M after he attempted  the
first card payment. Nationwide  also suggested that it doesnt know Mr M wouldnt be able to
benefit from the investment as he hadnt followed  the correct procedure  for withdrawing his
funds.
Because Nationwide disagreed, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN70377103My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on
1 March 2021. I provide a copy of my findings  from that decision below:
Loan application
Our investigator was of the opinion Nationwide  shouldnt have lent to Mr M. However, I
disagree with this.
Mr M began his loan application online, requesting  a quick quote for a £5,000 repayable over
12 months. The application stated his earnings were £1,500, his occupation was set to part
time and the reason for the loan was to buy a car. The monthly payments were due to be
£428.88. The application  proceeded and was conditionally approved.
Nationwide assessed  Mr Ms income by reviewing his account  statements and established
that he was receiving closer to £1,150  a month  income through  benefits. The notes provided
by Nationwide  suggest Mr M was contacted and asked if hed like to reprocess the loan at
the lower income  or provide evidence that he was in receipt of £1,500.
It would appear this contact prompted  Mr M to attend branch to complete his application,
where it was processed on the basis his income was £1,150  a month.  The loan term was
extended to take the monthly  payments down to £95.20 a month.
Nationwide has evidenced  that it checked  Mr Ms income figure prior to agreeing to the loan
and correctly contacted him to confirm this. Its explained that his benefits were  an
acceptable source of income - and I should  stress that just because someones only income
is through benefits; doesnt mean they should  be refused credit. A loan can still be affordable
in these circumstances. Its not entirely  clear why the loan term was increased  as both
parties have given differing statements  Mr M says the advisor  recommended this, but
Nationwide say this wouldnt have been  the case as the loan application  wasnt  an advised
sale. But regardless, lengthening the loan term made the monthly  payments manageable  for
Mr M when  compared to his outgoings.
Mr M told Nationwide his loan was for a car and I wouldnt have expected  it to question this
based on the information it had at the time. I acknowledge that Mr Ms earnings were  inflated
slightly on the loan application, but I dont think this was to the extent that it wouldve caused
Nationwide to be on notice that something  was amiss with the application, nor the fact hed
put the incorrect employment  status. And whilst  Nationwide is now aware that Mr M is a
vulnerable adult, it wasnt at the time of the application. So, I cant fairly say it shouldve done
anything differently when the application was made.
Taking everything into consideration, Ive seen  nothing to suggest  the loan was unaffordable
for Mr M or lent irresponsibly by Nationwide. Nor can I say it couldve done  anything more to
detect Mr M was being scammed at that point.
Card transactions
Its common ground that Mr M authorised the two card payments in November 2018.  And Im
satisfied he fell victim to a scam. Nationwide doesnt appear to have been convinced of this
throughout the course of this complaint, explaining that Mr M never asked for his withdrawals
Ref: DRN70377104in the correct way and this could explain why he wasnt  able to get his money back.
However, I think there is sufficient evidence  that Mr M was dealing with a scammer. It would
be highly  unusual for a genuine investment firm to instruct  their customers  to take out credit
to then use to invest. And even more unusual  that the advisor  would take remote  access  of
someones computer  to help them with the applications. In addition,  Mr M has provided an
email from the company  dated 29 November 2018 where they say they have received Mr
Ms ID documents and activated his account. He then asks for his money to be released and
they said someone would be in contact  to arrange this. Mr M was then unable to get any
further communication from the company. Again, not something youd expect from a genuine
investment company. Finally, the regulator  has confirmed the company is unregulated and
the warning suggests  companies such as these are known to run investment scams. So,
when considered altogether, Im satisfied Mr M is the victim of a scam.
I accept that these were  authorised payments even though Mr M was the victim  of a
sophisticated scam. He used his card details to make  the payments. So,
although he was tricked into doing so, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr M
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider
Nationwide should  fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in
some cases  declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied there were  fraud triggers in this case because  Nationwides  staff did in fact
intervene. Prior to the two disputed card payments leaving his account,  Mr M attempted  one
for £4,273.27 to EU Pay Limited. This transaction was blocked by Nationwide and a phone
call then took place.  Given the information Mr M gave  the advisor in the call, she clearly had
strong suspicions Mr M was currently in the process of being  scammed.  She told him as
much, but Mr M was adamant he wanted  to proceed, despite the advisor warning him that
his money would be lost if it later turned  out to be a scam.
I think its important to note at this point  Mr M wasnt deliberately deceiving Nationwide  when
he spoke to them. He is a vulnerable individual who had fallen  victim to a very elaborate and
convincing scam  he was completely taken in by T and was just following instructions given
to him. Based on what Mr Ms doctors have  said, I think its fair to say he didnt comprehend
what was happening to him. This is the case with the majority of scam victims of course, but
in Mr Ms case, this is heightened by his condition.
I dont dispute  that the Nationwide advisor tried her best to explain  to Mr M that the payment
was most likely a scam. At that point the transaction  Mr M had made  had been blocked  from
Ref: DRN70377105debiting, so Nationwide didnt have to take any further action in regard to that. But Im of the
opinion that Nationwide then missed an opportunity to prevent the subsequent payments.
I recognise there is a balance to be struck  between a bank  preventing fraud and following a
customers instructions. But in a case such as this, where Nationwide  was presented with a
situation where it was convinced  its customer was being scammed, I think  additional steps
shouldve been  taken with regard to Mr Ms account.
The day after this conversation, Mr M processed a further two card payments. Both of these
were in a foreign currency and followed the same  vein as the one blocked the day before.
You could  argue they were unusual themselves, but when coupled with what happened the
day before, I think Nationwide shouldve been on high alert that Mr M was at risk of fraud
and financial  harm  and taken steps to ensure  the payments didnt debit the account. For me
the key factor here is that despite  what Mr M told the advisor  on the phone, she clearly
wasnt convinced it was a legitimate payment by the end of that call. So, at that point
Nationwide were on notice Mr M was at risk.
Had Nationwide blocked the £874.29  it couldve  had a further call with Mr M. It seems likely
he wouldve given the same story as the day before, so at this point, I wouldve expected
Nationwide to do something further.  Hed changed  merchants and amounts by this point and
so his story  would likely have been even more out of the ordinary.
Nationwide has a duty to protect its customers and so I think  it couldve taken some  more
robust actions to prevent what it strongly believed was a scam.  At the very least the
payments shouldnt have been  processed. But I also think  that part of its duty to protect
against scams, is to ensure its customers dont continue to fall victim to it.
So, in this situation it wouldnt be enough to just keep  blocking the payments. Instead,  it
couldve requested  Mr M attend  branch, so the staff there couldve had a face to face
conversation with him and asked him to bring with him any information  he had on the car
sale. We know he didnt have this as hed been given a cover  story. So, it seems likely that a
more tailored and probing face to face conversation couldve broken down his story  and
uncovered the real scam.  This is especially the case when you consider Mr Ms
vulnerabilities, as it doesnt  seem likely he wouldve  been able to keep up with the story
under more pointed  questioning or elaborated further without the help of the scammer.
Nationwide couldve then taken steps to educate Mr M on investment scams and let him
know a genuine  company  wouldnt give him a cover  story or ask him to apply for a loan. In
addition, there was already a warning against this company on the regulators website by
this point.
So, overall, Im persuaded that Nationwide  couldve  and shouldve  prevented  the card
payments debiting Mr Ms account and done  more  to break the spell the scammer had over
him.
Ive also considered whether Mr M should  bear some responsibility  by way of contributory
negligence. However, it is clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment,
he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the
consequences of his actions. His vulnerabilities  led him to trust T and the information  he was
feeding him. Im therefore satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, he
was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. Nationwide  was the
professional in financial matters; Mr M was a vulnerable layperson.
Ref: DRN70377106In the circumstances Im satisfied Nationwide should  fairly  and reasonably reimburse Mr M
for both payments  totalling £4,195.36, along with the two non-Sterling transaction fees of
£24.04 and £91.33.
In addition, Nationwide should refund any interest and charges associated with the loan. I
say this because  had Nationwide done  what I would expect, Im satisfied the true scam
wouldve come  to light and Mr M couldve cancelled the loan  which hed taken for the sole
purpose of investing  with T - in line with his 14-day cooling off period. This includes the small
amount he went onto spend that wasnt part of the scam, which Im satisfied he wouldnt
have used had the situation  been different.
It will then be up to Mr M to decide whether to use the refund of the two payments to repay
the loan in full.
If Mr M does decide he wishes to repay the loan in full upon receiving a refund of the scam
losses, he should let me know.  In those circumstances, I think  its correct for Nationwide to
remove the loan from Mr Ms credit file. As explained, had Nationwide  done what I would
expect and prevented  the scam  payments, Mr M couldve taken advantage of his 14-day
cooling off period for the loan and cancelled this altogether, repaying the money  to
Nationwide immediately. Therefore, the loan would never have appeared on his credit  file.
However, if Mr M wishes to continue to make  monthly repayments instead  which  he is
entitled to do - then his credit file will accurately  reflect  this, and the loan will remain.
Finally, I think  its appropriate to make an award  of £500 for the distress and inconvenience
Mr M has suffered. What  happened to Mr M has undoubtedly had a big impact on his mental
health and wellbeing. In reaching the conclusion that £500 is fair, Im mindful that Mr Ms
loss and emotional distress were  ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster. But,
Nationwide could ultimately have prevented the payments,  so its fair that it should
compensate Mr M for its part in what hes been  through.
Mr Ms representative responded to the provisional  decision letting  us know  that Mr M 
accepts it and wishes to repay the loan on receipt of the refund. 
Nationwide also responded to the provisional  decision, accepting it in the main. It had a few 
comments as follows:
It had concerns with crediting the refund of the scam payments  to Mr M directly.  It 
pointed out that Mr M is a vulnerable adult  and this may not be the most responsible  
thing to do as it could leave him in difficulty if he doesnt proactively pay off the loan 
himself. Instead, it proposed that the refund is used to clear the loan and the 
remainder would  then be refunded  to Mr M directly. 
It said that I asked for the credit search to be removed if Mr M repaid the loan within  
60 days. But it feels to safeguard Mr M the loan application shouldnt  be removed. It 
says that Nationwide have a duty to report accurate information.  If Mr M decides to 
make a loan application  in future with another lender and doesnt  disclose  he hasnt 
got sufficient mental capacity, it would question how the lender would assess and 
base their decision fairly if the record is not showing on Mr Ms credit  file. Theyll lose 
the opportunity  to see the monthly  credit activity and ask to further questions about 
the previous loan.  
Finally, Nationwide  said it would  like medical evidence to understand the extent  of Mr 
Ms vulnerability and his consent  to record a vulnerability indicator on its records. 
Ref: DRN70377107my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has told us his intention is to pay off the loan using the refund and he agrees with 
Nationwides stance  around this. So, I see no reason not to direct Nationwide to use the 
refunded money,  totalling £4,310.73, to first clear  the loan and then refund Mr M the 
remainder. Nationwide should send  Mr M confirmation his loan has been repaid  once  this 
has been completed. 
Whilst I appreciate Nationwides stance on the credit file issue,  my decision remains 
unchanged on this point. I should  clarify that the search Nationwide  wouldve conducted prior 
to the loan being granted should remain. However, had Nationwide  done what I would 
expect, the loan would not have appeared on Mr Ms credit file. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to say it should remain there now. Whilst I understand the intention behind  
Nationwide wanting  the information  to remain, it still remains Mr Ms responsibility to share 
his condition and circumstances  with future financial institutions  the loan on his credit file 
wouldnt warn lenders about  this. Instead,  having  this loan on his credit file would be a 
reminder of what hes been  through and I dont believe  this to be fair given my conclusions. 
Finally, Mr Ms representative has said that if Nationwide want  medical evidence around  
Mr Ms condition,  Mr M consents to them contacting his GP for this. This isnt something for 
me to comment on in this decision  and would be something for Nationwide to discuss 
directly with Mr M and his representative. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society  and I 
therefore require  the bank  to:
Clear the remaining  balance of the loan using the refund of £4,310.73 and refund 
Mr M the remaining  amount within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance 
of my final decision; plus
Refund any interest and charges associated with the loan;
Remove the loan (apart from the search) from Mr Ms credit file; 
Pay Mr M £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7037710