K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the advice she was given  by Pacific IFA Limited (Pacific) to transfer 
her personal  pension into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) and about Pacific not 
assessing the suitability of her investment in overseas property with Harlequin  Property  
(Harlequin). She wants Pacific to compensate her for her losses.
background 
Mrs C and her husband  were introduced to Pacific by a third party in April 2010.  They  met 
with Pacific on 14 April 2010 and both signed a client referral form and a client  agreement  on 
the same  day. Pacific  has said that it didnt receive  any form of commission  or 
referral/introduction fee. At the meeting, a financial  review document  was completed  with 
Mr and Mrs Cs personal and financial details.  
A suitability  report was then issued in June 2010  which said that Mrs C was in her late 40s, 
married with no dependants and in good  health.  She earned about  £30,000 per year and 
had a joint outstanding mortgage with her husband  of £190,000 on her main residence  and 
another mortgage of £27,000 on another property.  Together with her husband  she also had 
paid two deposits totalling £81,000  to secure  off plan overseas properties. She had a 
personal pension  with a value of around £40,000.  In addition she had an occupational  
pension of around £22,000. Pacific  had completed an attitude to risk assessment for Mrs C. 
The outcome was that Mrs C was prepared to take investment risks suited to a cautious 
balanced profile. This was number 4 on a risk scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being  high risk. 
The report  said Mrs C wanted advice on where  to place her pension  in order to facilitate the 
purchase of an overseas  commercial property. So Pacific says it had limited its advice to 
establishing a SIPP with a suitable  provider, and didnt accept liability  of any losses resulting 
from her chosen investment. Pacific recommended Mrs C to transfer  her personal pension to 
a particular SIPP provider  under  its family pension trust. 
Pacific said that a spread of investments would match Mrs Cs cautious balanced attitude to 
risk and it did point out that her chosen investment was very high risk (9 or 10 on the risk 
scale when she was rated as 4).The suitability report  commented on the general risks of off 
plan overseas commercial  property  investments  via a SIPP. The report also mentioned that 
the family  trusts charges  were significantly higher than Mrs Cs personal plan.
Mrs C signed the report to confirm shed read and understood  it on 9 June 2010. On the 
same day Mrs C also signed  the application to start a family pension trust with the 
recommended SIPP  provider. The form said she would  be transferring her personal  pension 
and the intended investment was Harlequin Property. Mrs Cs financial adviser was stated  as 
Pacific IFA Limited on this application.  The trust was established on 30 June  2010.
Together with her husband Mrs C completed  a Harlequin Property contract to purchase a 
property in St Lucia  for £135,000 on 20 July 2010.  The first payment due was £40,500. Half 
of this payment  (£20,250)  was funded from Mrs Cs pension.  
A few months later, in November 2010,  Mr and Mrs C invested  a total of £12,000 from their 
SIPP into Sustainable Growth Group  (SGG), an unregulated collective investment scheme. 
Mrs C, through her representatives (R), made a complaint to Pacific  in May 2013 about  their 
advice to transfer her personal pension fund into a SIPP and invest  in SGG. R said Pacific 
Ref: DRN79928862was aware Mrs C was considering investing in SGG and the whole process was directed 
towards this outcome. R said Pacific should  have  assessed the investments suitability. 
Pacific rejected this complaint in a final response  letter dated 11 July 2013 and said it didnt 
know about Mrs Cs plan to invest in SGG and didnt advise her on this investment. It said 
the SGG  investment was made several months  after Pacifics advice to transfer  Mrs Cs 
pension to a SIPP. 
R referred this complaint  to this service  in December 2013. One of our adjudicators thought  
this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She found that there was no evidence that an investment 
into SGG  was planned at the time the SIPP was recommended by Pacific. Mrs C had said 
she only learned about SGG in September 2010 which  was three  months after she received 
Pacifics advice. So the adjudicator didnt think Pacific was responsible for Mrs Cs 
investment into SGG.
R replied saying there were two elements to the complaint;  the suitability of the transfer itself 
and the SGG investment.  R queried whether the adjudicator thought  the pension transfer 
itself was suitable. Our adjudicator thought the transfer itself hadnt  formed  part of the 
complaint to Pacific  and told R this would have to be raised separately.  In July 2014, R 
asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman at this service  but informed  the 
adjudicator a couple of days later that Mrs C wanted to withdrew her complaint.  
In April 2015 R raised another complaint to Pacific  on behalf of Mrs C. It complained about 
the transfer of Mrs Cs pension into a SIPP and the investment of these funds into Harlequin 
property. R said Pacific  failed to assess the suitability of the Harlequin investment.
Pacific rejected this complaint in a final response  letter in June 2015. It said Mrs C and her 
husband had already  made the decision  to invest in Harlequin property when they were  
introduced to Pacific. They had reserved a specific investment property in St Lucia and had 
already paid a reservation  fee. Pacific  said it had only provided advice on the suitability of 
the SIPP wrapper  to enable them to proceed with their chosen investment. It said the couple  
had been informed Pacific wouldnt be giving advice  on the intended investment with 
Harlequin. 
R referred this complaint  to this service  in December 2015. However,  Pacific  objected to this 
service considering this complaint further. It said the complaints raised in 2013 and 2015 
were effectively the same. In 2013 Mrs C raised  a complaint about the suitability of the 
advice to transfer her pension into a SIPP and the 2015 complaint was about the suitability 
of the same  advice and on the same grounds,  being  that Pacific  didnt  consider  the suitability 
of the intended investment. Pacific said Mrs C referred her second  complaint too late as it 
was made  more than six months after their first final response letter on 11 July 2013.  In any 
event, Pacific thought  the complaint should be dismissed because  the merits of the 
complaints had already been  considered in 2013.
In August  2019  an ombudsman at this service  issued  a decision that this service can 
consider Mrs Cs complaint and that it shouldnt be dismissed. Im not going to repeat his 
findings in detail. However,  in summary he said:
Ref: DRN79928863On jurisdiction:
In June 2015 Pacific  issued a final response letter  as defined in DISP 1.6.2R. Mrs C 
referred her complaint  within six months  of this final response  letter,  so met the time 
limits set out in DISP  2.8.2 (1) R.
He wasnt persuaded by Pacifics argument that the final response letter in 2015 had 
been issued in error. Pacific knew about the previous complaint. It had made  specific 
reference to it in their final response letter. It could  have chosen  to say it had already 
dealt with this complaint. However,  instead  it set out a detailed  rebuttal of the latest  
complaint and gave  referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Even if it was an error, the letter in June 2015  still was a final response in accordance 
with DISP 1.6.2. Mrs C meets  all the relevant  jurisdiction  requirements and this 
service has the power to consider her complaint
On dismissing the complaint the ombudsman said in summary:
DISP 3.3.4A (5) R says the ombudsman  may dismiss a complaint without 
considering its merits if the ombudsman considers dealing with such a type of 
complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective  operation  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
 
The regulators handbook  contains guidance which  gives examples when this might  
be the case. One of them  is set out in DISP 3.3.4B(3)G which  says: where the 
subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded under 
the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new information which the 
Ombudsman considers  likely  to affect  the outcome of has subsequently become  
available to the complainant)
The complaints  made  in 2013 and 2015 werent the same
There were  aspects  of Mrs Cs complaints  that were common to both of Rs 
complaint letters  in 2013 and 2015.  This wasnt necessarily surprising as both 
complaints concerned  the transfer of Mrs Cs existing pension into a SIPP and the 
subsequent investment in a high risk product  (SGG  and Harlequin).
 
Both complaints  made by Mrs C relate to the same regulated  activity  (advising  on 
pension transfers). Its possible to have  separate complaints  about the same 
regulated activity where it concerns different financial services. Mrs C had brought 
two different complaints about two different financial  services  - the first being 
investment into SGG and the second  investment into Harlequin -which  both relate  to 
the same  regulated  activity.
The ombudsman thought Pacific recognised that this complaint was different to Mrs 
Cs first complaint. When responding to the first complaint  Pacifics  final response 
mainly focused on the SGG investment. The letter made no reference  about the 
suitability of the pension advice itself.
 
In June 2014 the adjudicator asked Pacific to confirm its understanding of the 
complaint and asked  for further information. Pacific  replied with a letter saying  
(amongst other  things) that its clear therefore  that Ms Cs complaint is about  her 
Ref: DRN79928864SIPPs investment in SGG, and that the pension transfer into the SIPP  is only 
potentially of relevance if it was made in the express knowledge of and for the 
specific purpose of investing  in SGG as alleged  
The ombudsman thought Pacific made it clear it wished to dissociate Mrs Cs 
complaint about investing in SGG from the advice to transfer into a SIPP.  This seems  
to contradict Pacifics  position that both complaints concerned the advice to transfer 
the pension.
Pacific said the SIPP  had been  recommended to allow Mrs C to invest  into two 
overseas commercial property investments she was interested  in, but it didnt 
mention Harlequin  specifically. Pacific said in response to the adjudicators  
information request  that in so far your questions concern these  commercial  property 
investments we must question the relevance of the question  to the complaint 
because the complaint concerns  SGG
The adjudicator  accepted that the complaint only concerned  the investment in SGG. 
Her view concentrated  on the investment in SGG and she found Pacific wasnt  
responsible for advising on this investment  or any losses Mrs C suffered from it. The 
adjudicator didnt express any view about whether the transfer from Mrs Cs existing 
pension to a SIPP  was suitable.
The ombudsman considered whether the subject matter  of the complaint had 
previously been considered or excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
He said the transfer  from Mrs Cs existing pension  hadnt  been considered  by the 
adjudicator in 2014. And the adjudicator  hadnt  considered the investment in 
Harlequin Property either.  So the ombudsman considered the subject matter of the 
current complaint hadnt been considered or excluded previously and so it wouldnt  
seriously impair the effective operation of this service.
The merits of the complaint  could now be considered
Pacific, represented by their solicitors, responded to the decision with further comments  on 
jurisdiction as well as comments  with regards to the merits  of the complaint.
findings in my provisional  decision
I previously issued a provisional  decision in which I explained that this service  did have 
jurisdiction to consider  this complaint.  
With regards to the merits I thought Pacific should have made it clear to Mrs C that her 
intended investments  were unsuitable for her and consequently they shouldnt  have 
recommended the SIPP.  However, I thought on balance Mrs C would have gone ahead with 
the transfer anyway,  so I didnt think Pacific should  be held responsible for the losses  she 
incurred.
I repeat  my findings  in detail below.
provisional findings
jurisdiction and dismissal
Ref: DRN79928865Im first going to address  the jurisdiction aspects of this complaint.
In summary,  Pacific made the following comments on the ombudsmans  jurisdiction  decision:
The ombudsman said the financial  service  being complained about  in 2013 was 
advice on the suitability of investing  in SGG and the complaint was that such service 
(i.e. advice) had not been provided. 
The ombudsman said the financial  service  being complained about  in 2015 was 
advice on the suitability of investing  in Harlequin  investment  and the complaint was 
that such service (i.e. advice) had not been  provided. 
The ombudsman states  that in her current complaint (the 2015  complaint),  Mrs C 
says Pacific failed to take account of the suitability of the Harlequin investment when 
advising her to transfer into a SIPP. It is not clear whether the ombudsman appears 
to be suggesting  that the 2015  complaint also concerns the suitability of the pension 
transfer recommendation actually  provided (e.g. expression of dissatisfaction about  
the provision of a financial  service), whereas the 2013 does not.
The ombudsman says the investment into SGG  was a separate financial service to 
the investment  into Harlequin. However,  if the act of investment  into those 
investments were financial services then it would be a different  regulated  activity (i.e. 
arranging investments)  which  doesnt entail any advice. But the ombudsman says the 
complaints were only about one regulated activity. Pacific assumes the ombudsman 
intended to mean that the failure to provide advice  on the suitability of those two 
investments is the relevant financial service for the purpose of the definition of 
complaint in DISP.
The ombudsman appears to conclude the 2013 complaint wasnt about the suitability  
of the pension transfer recommendation provided  by Pacific,  but about the failure to 
separately advise  on the suitability  of the intended investment in SGG
not supported  by documentary evidence
Pacific say the ombudsmans arguments are not supported and contradicted  by the 
documentary evidence. They refer to the full terms of the complaint letter dated 21 
May 2013 in which  R in several  paragraphs not only complains  about  an omission 
but also about the suitability of the pension transfer  recommendation provided  by 
Pacific. 
The ombudsman fails to recognise that the complaints  about  the suitability of the 
transfer itself are virtually identical in the 2013 and 2015 complaints.
The scope of the 2013 complaint is neither defined by how Pacific  responded to it nor 
how the adjudicator  responded to it. 
Its irrelevant that Pacific gave Mrs C referral rights in its 2015  final response  letter. 
Pacific was required by DISP to provide referral rights and its ultimately for the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to decide  whether  a complaint falls in its jurisdiction  
and not for the parties. The Financial  Ombudsman Service  can decide that a 
complaint isnt in its jurisdiction whether  or not the parties  raise arguments  on it or 
admit or deny it.
Ref: DRN79928866inconsistencies with another  decision
The decision is inconsistent with a previous determination of this Service against 
Pacific for a different customer.  This complaint was also submitted by R in 2013 with 
an identical complaint  letter  as the one for Mrs C, including  the reference to SGG. 
The complaints  were submitted only a few days apart.
This customers  2013 complaint proceeded all the way to a final decision by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, who didnt uphold it.
Like in Mrs Cs complaint another complaint was raised  in 2015 and Pacific alleged  
this was a duplicate to the 2013 complaint. An ombudsman found that the 2013 
complaint (which was identical to Mrs Cs complaint) was about the pension  transfer  
and the investment in SGG. And the 2015 complaint (also identical to Mrs Cs 
complaint) was about the pension transfer  and the investment in Harlequin.
The ombudsman concluded he could  consider  the complaint about Pacifics  failure  to 
assess the suitability  of Harlequin (an omission) as this was a new complaint, but the 
complaints about the transfer itself and the investment in SGG werent made within  
the relevant time limits as they had been complained about before.
The jurisdiction decision is inconsistent and contradictory with the determination in 
the other customers case because its suggesting we can look at the pension  advice  
itself as well as the omission  to invest into Harlequin.
Pacific also raised the question  again whether the complaint in 2015  was in fact 
raised within six months of their final response  of 11 June 2015 as they dont have 
knowledge of when R contacted this service.
Having considered all available evidence Im satisfied that our service  can consider 
Mrs Cs complaint. 
I agree  with the previous  ombudsman that the complaint about Pacifics  failure to assess the 
suitability of the Harlequin investments  is a new complaint that hasnt been raised before and 
that is one our service  can consider. As Pacific hasnt commented  on this any further Im 
assuming they accept  this and I wont repeat the reasoning here again.
For completeness Id like to add that Pacific issued their final response letter on 11 June 
2015 and R referred  this complaint to us on 4 December 2015, so within the regulators six 
months time limit (DISP 2.8.2 (1) R).
I have considered Pacifics argument that R raised  identical  concerns about the pension 
transfer itself both in 2013  and 2015. Having  looked at the complaint letters I do agree that 
this is the case.  In 2013 R complained about  the advice to transfer Mrs Cs personal pension 
into a SIPP  and the failure to assess the suitability of the SGG  investment. In 2015 R 
complained again about the advice to transfer Mrs Cs personal pension into a SIPP and the 
failure to assess the suitability of the Harlequin  investment. So I considered whether the 
complaint about  the pension transfer itself has been  referred to this service in time.
Ref: DRN79928867Although I appreciate a final response  letter was issued in 2015,  I thought  it was more 
relevant to consider what happened  in 2013. Rs complaint in 2013  included concerns about 
the pension transfer itself and Pacific issued their final response letter on 11 July 2013.  R 
referred the complaint to this service  on 5 December 2013,  so within the regulators six 
months time limit. 
Its correct that Pacific didnt really  address the suitability of the pension  transfer itself in their 
response. And our adjudicator also focussed on the investment into SGG in her assessment.
However, as Pacific has correctly pointed  out, the scope of a complaint isnt defined  by 
Pacifics response or the adjudicators assessment. Key is that in the complaint to Pacific as 
well as in the complaint  to this service R complained about  the advice to transfer  Mrs Cs 
personal pension  into a SIPP. So Im satisfied that this part of the complaint was referred  to 
this service on time.
The 2013  complaint was withdrawn by Mrs C after the adjudicators assessment. However, 
that doesnt mean our service doesnt  have jurisdiction to look at this complaint again. We 
can look at this complaint.
I then considered whether our service  should  decide not to consider this part of the 
complaint, i.e. dismiss it. There are only limited  grounds on which  I can dismiss a complaint 
which can be found in DISP 3.3.4 A R. As far as I can see the only possible dismissal 
grounds in this case could be that dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise 
seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Possible 
examples of what this might include are described  in DISP 3.3.4 B, one of which is if the 
subject matter has already been considered or excluded by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service.
However, as mentioned  above I dont think the subject matter of the transfer itself was 
considered by this service  before.  Our adjudicator only addressed the SGG  investment in 
her assessment. So I dont think theres ground  for dismissal here.
In summary,  I think Mrs Cs complaint  about the advice to transfer her pension from a 
personal pension  to a SIPP and the failure  to advise on the suitability of the investment into 
Harlequin has been referred  to us within the regulators time limits and hasnt been 
considered by this service  before.  
I understand that Pacific feels this is inconsistent with another decision which was issued by 
this service. I think its important to bear in mind that our service decides  every complaint on 
its own merits, so Im not going  to comment on the other case  in detail. I appreciate that 
some details of the two complaints might  be similar. However, its worth  noting that the 2013  
complaint for the other customer wasnt referred  to this service  whereas  Mrs Cs 2013 
complaint was. So Im satisfied my findings on our jurisdiction  are correct.
Im now going to proceed by looking at the merits of Mrs Cs complaint.
pension transfer  and investment into Harlequin
Pacific says they provided limited advice to Mrs C which  only extended to the suitability of 
the SIPP wrapper.  They say they didnt  recommend  the unregulated Harlequin investment to 
her and that Mrs C had decided to invest  into Harlequin before she was introduced to 
Pacific. 
Ref: DRN79928868Based on what Ive seen  this seems to be correct. Ive seen a copy  of a contract that was set 
up between Harlequin  and Mr and Mrs C on 25 March  2010 for the purchase of a property in 
St Lucia.  This was about  three weeks before the couple was introduced  to Pacific. Mrs C has 
also confirmed to us that information about  the investment was given  to her by the 
introducing third party and it was the introducer who told the couple it was a good investment 
for them. And the suitability report Pacific issued for Mrs C doesnt recommend the Harlequin 
investment. So Im satisfied that Pacific didnt advise  Mrs C to invest her pension into this 
high-risk investment.
Having said that Pacific advised Mrs C on the pension transfer and as part of that they 
should have considered the suitability of the underlying investments. The regulators view on 
this is clear. In 2013 it issued an alert about  advice  on pension transfers without assessing 
the suitability of the intended investments. It said:
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas 
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment 
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should  transfer  into the SIPP.  If, 
taking into account  the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable.
This alert didnt mark a change in regulations. It was essentially  a confirmation of how 
financial advisers should act. So Pacific  should have assessed the suitability of the 
Harlequin investment  and if found  unsuitable  for Mrs C not recommended the SIPP. 
Looking at the suitability report I can see that Pacific pointed out the following:
Based  purely  on cost it was more beneficial to keep Mrs Cs existing pension in place 
as the SIPP  had much higher charges than her personal pension
Mrs Cs attitude to risk was cautious  balanced  and so Pacific would have considered  
a spread of investments targeted at her attitude  to risk, but she had already chosen 
to invest partly into overseas property
The Harlequin investment was much higher risk than Mrs Cs attitude to risk would 
allow for (9 or 10 on a scale where  Mrs Cs attitude  to risk would have been 4)
The growth rate needed in the SIPP to match her existing benefits  was not 
realistically achievable
I think the above indicates that Pacific thought the intended investment wasnt suitable for 
Mrs C. I appreciate that in order to invest her pension into Harlequin she needed a SIPP  as 
her pension provider  didnt allow this kind of investment.  And as explained above  it looks  like 
Mrs C already had made up her mind where she wanted to invest. However, investing into 
Harlequin didnt  match her attitude  to risk and looking  at her circumstances I dont think  she 
had the capacity to take this risk with her pension either. 
Ref: DRN79928869So Pacific  should  have made  it clear to Mrs C that the investment she was intending to make 
was unsuitable  for her and consequently  the SIPP was unsuitable for her. And as a result  a 
recommendation for the transfer  shouldnt have been made.
As a service  we dont  punish businesses for their mistakes. We try to put customers  back in 
the position they would have been in if the correct action had been taken. And in these 
particular circumstances  I think  on balance  Mrs C would have still invested her pension  into 
Harlequin even  if Pacific had advised  her not to do this. Ill explain why.
The suitability report shows that Mrs C, together with her husband, had already paid 
deposits on two further Harlequin properties  (over £80,000 in total).  £30,000 of this was 
financed by taking  out a further advance on their mortgage which I dont  think is a decision 
anyone would take lightly.
At the time Mr and Mrs C were introduced to Pacific they had already  chosen and reserved a 
particular property overseas. Its likely they would have  already paid a reservation fee of 
£1,000. Whilst  this might not be a particularly large  amount, I think it would have influenced 
Mrs Cs decision  to go ahead with her original plans. 
Pacific didnt go as far as not recommending the SIPP, but they did point out that the 
Harlequin investment  was very high risk-much higher than Mrs Cs attitude  to risk-and  that 
there was a high risk of getting less at retirement than with her old plan. They also pointed  
out some  of the specific risks relating to property investments overseas. I dont know  how 
much of this was discussed  during  the meetings with Pacific.  However,  Ive seen 
correspondence of Pacific explaining to the introducer (when asked for an update) that 
Mrs C and her husband  had decided to take the suitability report  away  and read it before 
going ahead with the SIPP. And they only proceeded with the transfer a couple  of weeks  
later. So I think its likely Mrs C was aware  that this was a high-risk investment and would 
exceed the risk level she would  usually  be considered for and that the SIPP was a lot more 
expensive than her existing personal pension.  However, she still decided  to go ahead with 
the investment.
Mrs C said she and her husband proceeded because Pacific still told them  it was a good 
investment. However,  I havent seen anything that supports this. I think its more likely  that 
they proceeded because  they had been told previously by the introducer  that Harlequin  was 
a good investment and her and her husband had already invested substantially  into 
something that they obviously  thought  would be beneficial to them.  I think  it would have been  
quite a big step to cancel  the reservation of the property, lose the reservation fee and try to 
unwind previous  investments  into other  properties  acknowledging previous investment 
decisions might  have  been wrong.
Mrs C met the introducer through  a mutual  friend and seems to have trusted her enough  to 
invest substantial amounts (far more than the amount she was about to invest  from her 
personal pension) and go as far as securing a loan against her home.  Once the SIPP  was 
established Mrs S also invested  into another unregulated  investment  on the 
recommendation of the introducer.  I think this shows Mrs C and her husband  were  listening 
and trusting what the introducer was telling them. The introducer  was the one who had given 
them the information about Harlequin and who accompanied them through the entire 
process. However, the introducer couldnt  recommend the SIPP,  so she introduced them  to 
Pacific.
Ref: DRN799288610In contrast  to this Mrs C never had any contact with Pacific before she was introduced to 
them in April 2010. If Pacific had told Mrs C that the SIPP (and the investments) were 
unsuitable for her, Im therefore not satisfied  that she would have put more weight on their 
advice than on the introducers recommendation who was still helping her and her husband 
to organise this investment. 
The suitability report mentioned that without  the pension transfers Mr and Mrs C couldnt 
secure their chosen property overseas.  So if Mrs C had decided  not to transfer her pension, 
the investment  into their chosen property would  have  fallen  through. Of course I dont  know  
for certain  what Mrs C would have done. She said that-in hindsight-she would have stayed 
with her personal pension. However, at the time of the advice I think  its more likely she 
wouldve listened to the introducer  and still trusted  that this was a good investment for her.
Based on the information I have I think on balance Mrs C was already committed to this kind 
of investment. So I think its more likely she would have transferred her pension anyway and 
invested into Harlequin even if she had been  recommended by Pacific not to do so. She 
could have done this by acting as an insistent client or by opening  a SIPP  directly  without  
financial advice -although I accept its possible that some  SIPP  providers might have insisted 
on Mrs C having sought financial  advice beforehand before accepting her business.
This means  she would  be exactly  in the same position she is in now and so I wont  be 
recommending that Pacific pays for any losses she has suffered from transferring  her 
pension into a SIPP and investing into Harlequin.
responses to my provisional  decision
I asked both parties to provide any further comments  or information they might have. 
Pacifics response
Pacifics representative  accepted  my decision on the merits but disagreed  with my findings  
on jurisdiction. In summary they said:
On the issue of jurisdiction theres  one distinct point they dont  understand and which 
they believe is in conflict with DISP. They think this might have wider implications on 
the Financial Ombudsman Services (FOS) process.
The ombudsman said the 2013  complaint could still be considered as it was referred 
within six months of Pacifics final response  of 11 July 2013 and it could still be 
considered despite  Mrs C withdrawing her complaint in 2014. 
If a complaint is referred and then withdrawn, FOS no longer  has any jurisdiction  or 
powers under DISP  to investigate it because it is no longer a complaint before the 
FOS
A complaint cant be revived (DISP doesnt  countenance this) and a new referral 
would need to be made.
DISP reflects the finality of a withdrawal in the following:
DISP 3.5.9(4): This allows the Ombudsman to treat the complaint as "withdrawn" and 
cease to consider  the merits if complainant fails to supply requested information.
Ref: DRN799288611DISP 3.5.15: This allows the Ombudsman,  where a complainant fails to comply with 
a time limit, to either proceed  with considering the complaint  or treat it as withdrawn  
and cease to consider  the merits.
In neither of these  examples does  it suggest the withdrawn  complaint continues to 
subsist as an active complaint before the FOS. Nor do these examples suggest  that 
a complainant can revive those  withdrawn complaints (and it would not make sense if 
it allowed  that). This is analogous to a court claim where if a claimant discontinues it, 
there are no longer  any court proceedings before the court.
It follows that the withdrawal of a complaint prompts the cessation of any further 
consideration of the merits and that is because DISP is no longer engaged as there  
is no longer a complaint before it to investigate it. If the Ombudsman was right and 
that notwithstanding the withdrawal  of a complaint, the complaint continues  to subsist  
before the FOS, then the FOS would have  a statutory duty to continue to investigate  
and determine  it even though it was withdrawn, which would not make  any sense.
Once withdrawn,  Mrs C could refer her 2013  complaint  again  only within six months  
of the final response letter of 11 July 2013 which she didnt do. The part of her 
complaint which relates to the suitability of the pension transfer which  was part of 
her 2013  and 2015 complaint-is therefore out of time.
The provisional decision could mean  that any complainant in future, whose  complaint  
is withdrawn or treated as withdrawn, can revive it many years later.
Mrs Cs response
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with my decision  on the merits of this complaint and-in 
summary-provided the following comments:
Mrs C was a lay investor and was relying  on Pacifics knowledge and advice. She 
wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer if Pacific had recommended against it.
Any previous  assurances given by an introducer would be heavily outweighed by 
advice received from a trusted professional adviser.
Its incorrect that Mr and Mrs C had invested  into two further Harlequin properties.  
They had only invested into two properties.  One paid for by a joint mortgage  and 
another property  which was the one Mr and Mrs C used their SIPP for.
Mrs C took the suitability report home for review  and considered  it for a number of 
weeks before going ahead  with the transfer. This shows she wouldnt have 
proceeded in any event.  If Mrs C had been  sufficiently warned, she wouldnt have 
continued with the transfer.
It wouldnt have been quite a big step to cancel the reservation  of the property. The 
loss of any deposit that had been  paid on the property would have been significantly  
less substantial than continuing to invest her pension in property Mrs C was 
specifically advised against. 
Ref: DRN799288612The suitability report said that in the family trust Mrs C "will benefit from ongoing 
professional advice and will have access to a much improved  investment platform".  
This would  be an encouraging statement  for a lay investor. Whilst the report  states 
that the investment was high-risk, Mrs C received assurances from Pacific  that it was
still a good investment.
Pacific should have clearly advised against  the investment. Pacific  providing  general 
risks wasnt  enough
The ombudsman said Mrs C was committed to the investment. However, The FCA 
Alert makes it clear that advisers  cannot  evade liability on this basis,  as advisers 
have duties to consider  the client's  overall  financial situation,  to ensure that the client  
receives suitable advice and to prevent the client from making unsuitable investment 
decisions.
The investment  couldnt have happened without the SIPP  transfer, so if Pacific  had 
given suitable  advice Mrs Cs losses could have been prevented.
my findings
jurisdiction and dismissal
Ive carefully considered  the response  provided by Pacifics  representative,  however Im still 
satisfied I can consider this complaint as I have.  Ill explain why.
Mrs C referred  her 2013 complaint-which included the part about the suitability of the 
pension transfer- to us within  six months of their final response letter of 11 July 2013 and 
Pacific doesnt dispute this. So she referred this complaint  to us within the regulators time 
limits. The fact that she decided to discontinue  her complaint before an ombudsmans  
decision was issued,  doesnt change this. And DISP doesnt  stipulate that once a complaint 
is withdrawn we cant consider it anymore.  
Pacifics representative  quoted  DISP  3.5.9 (4) and DISP 3.5.15 to show the finality  of a 
withdrawn complaint and that it couldnt be revived. However, these rules give FOS the 
discretion to treat complaints as withdrawn if a complainant doesnt  supply  requested 
information or fails to comply with a time limit (both doesnt apply here in any case).  
I appreciate Pacifics concerns that complainants  could revive  withdrawn  complaints  years 
later. However, its important to note that whether this service considers a complaint again  
after its been withdrawn  or closed (before  decision) lies in our discretion and depends on 
the circumstances of the complaint and whether  we consider this to be reasonable. If 
someone withdrew their complaint and simply changed their mind  many years later without 
good reason,  its likely we wouldnt consider the complaint anymore.
So Im still satisfied I have  the jurisdiction  to consider all aspects of Mrs Cs complaint. The 
question here is whether  I should  look into the part of the complaint she had already raised 
in 2013. And I believe I should.
As I already explained in my provisional  decision there are no dismissal grounds  for this 
complaint. We havent considered the part of Mrs Cs complaint about  the suitability of the 
pension transfer  itself before. 
Ref: DRN799288613I also considered the circumstances of Mrs C withdrawing her 2013  complaint. After the 
adjudicator had issued her view, Mrs Cs representatives  asked  for an ombudsmans 
decision. Shortly after Mrs C contacted us and expressed concerns that her complaint had 
been misinterpreted by the representative.  She clarified her complaint was that a SIPP  had 
been recommended  with no good reason. She said she knew Pacific  hadnt advised her on 
the investments,  but knew about  the intended investment into non-regulated  products.
Bearing in mind the adjudicators view hadnt addressed  the actual pension transfer itself, 
but simply found that Pacific hadnt  recommended the SGG investment-which  she took out 
at a later stage- I understand  why Mrs C thought  her complaint hadnt been properly 
interpreted. It didnt help that Pacific said the complaint wasnt  about  the transfer itself 
(although it was) and consequently our adjudicator  said this would have  to be a new 
complaint (when  it didnt  have to be). In the circumstances  I understand why Mrs C decided  
to withdraw her first complaint and start again.  
Mrs C then raised her amended complaint in April 2015. I appreciate that this is several  
months after she withdrew her first complaint and she could have done this a bit sooner. 
However, in the circumstances  of this case I think it was still raised in a reasonable 
timeframe.
merits
Ive carefully considered  the response  provided by Mrs Cs representative, however my 
decision remains the same. Ill explain why.
Pacific should have recommended against  the transfer, even if Mrs C was committed to the 
intended investment.  So I agree with Mrs Cs representative that there were failings in the 
advice process here. And I also agree that suitable  advice could have prevented Mrs Cs 
losses. 
However, I need to decide what I think on balance-  would have happened if Pacific had 
advised against the transfer. And based on the information I have I still think  its more likely 
than not Mrs C would have proceeded with the transfer anyway (and would have incurred 
her losses).  A positive  recommendation  from Pacific wasnt  legally  necessary  to open a 
SIPP. So if Pacific had advised against the transfer  Mrs C still could have opened a SIPP  
and proceeded  with an investment. 
The suitability report suggests Mrs C had already  invested in two overseas properties. 
However, I accept that its possible this wasnt recorded  properly  and the second property 
mentioned was the one she was about to invest in through the SIPP. This doesnt change  
the fact though that Mrs C had invested before  into Harlequin using mortgage funds, an 
undertaking that I dont think anyone would take lightly.
I appreciate that Mrs Cs representative  says a professional advisers advice would have  
outweighed any advice given by the introducer. And generally I would agree that people  
would put considerable  trust into a financial adviser.  But Mrs C had an existing relationship 
with the introducer and obviously  trusted her enough to take on a further mortgage based on 
her recommendation about Harlequin and I have to consider that the introducer  was still 
helping Mrs C to organise the investment and likely continuing to point out the advantages of 
it. So its likely, in this particular case, she would have listened  more to what the introducer 
was telling her, rather than an adviser  that she had only met shortly  before.
Ref: DRN799288614I agree  that Pacific  didnt go far enough  as they didnt recommend  against the transfer  and 
didnt specifically say the investment was unsuitable. But I cant see any evidence  that 
Pacific said to Mrs C this was a good investment.  
Mrs Cs representative referred to the part of the suitability report that said will benefit from 
ongoing professional advice and will have access to a much improved investment platform".  
However, this relates to the benefit of investing into a family trust with Mr C rather  than have 
two separate SIPPs. I cant agree that this would have encouraged Mrs C to think Harlequin  
was a good investment. I think its more likely that she understood this was a high risk 
investment, but trusted the assurances  and information given by the introducer. 
I agree  with Mrs Cs representative that cancelling the reservation fee of the property on its 
own wouldnt  have been quite a big step, particularly if the alternative was continued 
payments into an ill-advised investment. However, Mrs C had already taken out a mortgage  
to invest into another  Harlequin property and reserved another.  I remain of the opinion that it 
would have taken  quite a lot to accept that these  investments werent right for her and ideally 
should have to be rewound  somehow. In hindsight this might  seem a small  price  to pay to 
avoid losses to your pension. But at the time,  having  committed  to overseas  investments 
with Harlequin  before,  I think its likely  she wouldnt have changed her mind-even if Pacific 
had told her not to transfer. 
my final decision
My decision  is that we can consider Mrs Cs complaint. I uphold  her complaint but I wont ask 
Pacific IFA Limited to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7992886