K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Morses Club Plc (Morses Club) irresponsibly  lent to him. He says the proper 
checks werent done before his loans were  provided  to the extent that his name wasnt  even 
properly recorded  on the application forms. Hes also unhappy that he was offered further 
loans to clear the balance  on existing  loans that hed run into difficulty repaying which 
increased the overall amount he had to repay.
background
This complaint is about twelve home  collected credit loans Morses  Club provided to Mr B 
between November 2013 and November 2017.  Mr B was also provided  with a loan prior to 
the first one thats  the subject of this complaint. But, for reasons that have already been 
explained to the parties,  the complaint about  that loan hasnt been looked  at as part of this 
one. 
For ease of reference Ive referred  to the loans that are part of this complaint as loans 1 to 
12  with loan 1 being the one for £500 taken  in November 2013 and loan 12 being the one 
for £900 taken  in November 2017.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint about  loans 2 to 12 and said that Mr B shouldnt  
have been provided with those loans. 
Mr B didnt disagree with our adjudicators  view. But Morses  Club didnt agree and asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including  all the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Morses  Club should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN76259492the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Morses Clubs checks  were they proportionate?
It appears as though  Morses Club believes its checks were proportionate at the respective 
times that it provided  all of these loans to Mr B. It has provided the output for loan two which  
shows that Mr B declared his weekly income was £200 and his weekly expenditure  
consisting of rent, mortgage etc - was £50. And this left him with a weekly disposable 
income of £150  a week. From what I can see similar checks were carried  out for all of Mr Bs 
loans even though he was borrowing at a very high interest rate for an extended period of 
time.
Ive carefully thought  about what Morses Club has said.  But I think that it is overlooking the 
fact that loan 2 was provided while Mr B was still making payments to loan 1. And Mr Bs 
actions in taking  a second loan for £300 at this interest rate, whilst still making payments to 
an existing loan, was inconsistent with someone  who had the disposable income  to meet  the 
entire amount of the loan in a fortnight. 
As Morses Club chose to continue proceeding with a somewhat  over-optimistic  declaration 
of Mr Bs disposable income   on a number of occasions  despite the number of loans 
increasing and without taking steps  to verify Mr Bs expenditure, I dont think that 
Morses Clubs checks before providing  Mr B with loans 2 to 12 were fair, reasonable or 
proportionate.   
Why I think  that Mr B lost out because  of Morses  Clubs failure to carry out 
proportionate checks
Ive seen what Morses  Club has said about the FCAs  comments  in Consultation  Paper 
18/43 High Cost Credit final rules and guidance (CP 18/43). Morses Club appears to be 
suggesting that the FCA concluded that consumers  did not suffer  significant  economic harm 
when using home collected credit  over long periods and this suggests that Mr B wont  have 
lost out as a result of being provided with these loans. However, I think  that Morses Club is 
somewhat overstating the relevance  of CP 18/43  to this particular case.
I say this because  there  appears to be a mismatch  between the long period Mr B was lent to 
and the long period referred to in the passages Morses Club has cited. I say this because 
Morses club itself has referred to the FCA saying that most home credit consumers spend  
up to 12 months in debt.  And approximately 5% of the consumers were in debt for the whole 
of the two-year period.  So its clear that the research cited mainly  related to consumers who 
had been in debt for around a year and a small  percentage  whod been in debt for a 
maximum of two years.
Ref: DRN76259493In this case, Mr B was provided with loans for an unbroken  period  of four years  and hed 
been in debt to Morses  Club for a period exceeding five years.  So I dont think  that Morses 
Club is making a like for like comparison for the purposes of its comparison and I dont  think 
that the FCAs research  into the harm caused  by prolonged  use of home credit  covered 
circumstances such as Mr Bs. 
  
Indeed I think  that the FCAs comments in paragraph 3.14 of Consultation  Paper 18/12 
High-cost Credit Review: Consultation  on rent-to-own, home-collected credit,  catalogue 
credit and store cards, and alternatives  to high-cost credit Discussion on rent-to-own pricing  
(CP18/12) are more relevant here. 
This states:  
we are concerned  that there is a small core of customers who are using home- collected  
credit over an extended period and that some customers are being unduly influenced by 
firms representatives to keep borrowing.
  
Furthermore paragraph 3.20 of the FCAs High-cost Credit  Review  update (HCR update) 
published in January 2018 stated:
We are focusing our evidence gathering  on repeat borrowing  and refinancing, including  
where consumers take out additional borrowing with the outstanding amount from the 
previous loan incorporated into the new loan. We are concerned  that when consumers 
refinance their loans in this way, it may result in them paying significantly more  interest  on 
the amounts originally  borrowed  than they would had they maintained  separate  loans.
 
Mr B being  lent to for four years and, in Mr Bs words, Morses  Clubs  agents  encouragement 
to take out further loans to repay previous ones lead me to think that he falls more squarely  
within this group of customer, rather than the one that Morses Club has cited.
In any event, while I dont  consider  that my findings are inconsistent  with the FCAs 
publications, I am, in any event, required  to decide  what I think  is fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances  of Mr Bs case.   
In this particular  case, Mr B was in debt to Morses Club for at least  five years. This lack of 
any breaks in Mr Bs indebtedness  leads me to think that it ought  to have been apparent to 
Morses Club that Mr B was unlikely  to have been using these loans as a useful means  of 
managing cyclical income shortfalls  especially as the loan amounts increased substantially 
and were in large  part used  to discharge  the debts arising as a result  of earlier Morses Club 
loans. 
 
On almost every occasion Mr B agreed  to pay far more interest  than the amount he 
borrowed, and because of refinancing early loans, he then ended  up paying interest (at 
similar very high rates)  upon the unpaid interest,  resulting  in truly enormous costs  over a 
much longer  period. I think that Morses Club could and should  have identified, from the way   
Mr B sought  to use its loans, that his debts were  problematic and taken steps other  than 
continuing to provide  more and more expensive loans.
Instead, its actions  mean that Mr B was paying Morses Club high amounts of interest for the 
privilege of it allowing  him to delay  dealing with his unsustainable debt. I dont think  that 
offering further  expensive  loans to repay previous  ones was exercising  forbearance. And I 
Ref: DRN76259494dont think it was fair and reasonable for Morses Club to provide Mr B with the loans from 
loan 2 in these circumstances.
So overall and having carefully considered  everything provided, Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint about  loans  2 to 12 and Morses Club should put things right.
putting things right  what Morses  Club needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 2 to 11;
an outstanding  balance remained on loan 12 at the time Mr Bs complaint was 
referred to us. So Morses  Club should do one of the following in relation to loan 12 
depending on the current status of the loan: 
oif the balance  was repaid during the course of this complaint, Morses Club 
should refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid on this loan; Or 
oif an outstanding  balance remains all the interest and charges applied  from 
the outset should  be removed and the payments Mr B made  should  be 
deducted from the new starting  balance  in other words,  the amount Mr B 
was initially advanced. If the payments Mr B has already made exceed the 
amount lent the extra  should be refunded  as overpayments. If an outstanding 
balance on loan 12 remains after all adjustments have been made, Morses 
Club can deduct this from the compensation that it now needs to pay Mr B.
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any interest,  charges and overpayments paid 
from the date they were  paid to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Morses  Club Plc 
should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7625949