K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a store card. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  this complaint. Mrs G 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs G says the PPI was added without  her knowledge and consent and that she was just 
told where to sign on the application form. Ive seen a copy  of the store card application 
form which included a section for PPI where  Mrs G signed to agree to the cover.  And this 
signature is separate and additional  to her signature  to agree to the store  card. 
Ive thought about what Mrs G has said about  just being told where to sign, but I think its 
clear from the form that the PPI section is a separate section.  There  are also other 
sections on the form for other optional products which Mrs G didnt decide to take out. So 
I think she wouldve seen these different options and read them  before signing to agree 
to the PPI. And so based on what Ive seen I think FICL made  it clear  that Mrs G didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed  to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019
Ref: DRN74390612Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7439061