K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited  has handled her claim on her car 
insurance.
background
Mrs R was involved in a minor collision  with a third party in a car park in July 2018.  She took 
photos of her car shortly after the collision. And she also found  out from the car park owners  
that CCTV was in use. 
On the same  day, Mrs R called UKI to report the collision and start the claims process. Shes  
unhappy with the information UKIs  adviser gave her in the call.
Also on the same day, the third partys insurers notified UKI it was holding  Mrs R liable for 
the damage to its insureds car. But UKI didnt tell Mrs R this for many months.
Although UKI requested  the CCTV footage from the car parks owners, they wouldnt release  
it without a police crime reference number. And the police  told Mrs Rs husband they 
wouldnt log the collision because no-one  had been hurt or fled the scene.
In the end, UKI and the third party insurer agreed  a 50:50 liability split between Mrs R and 
the third party.  This means Mrs R now has a fault claim  logged  against her and her no 
claims discount has been reduced by two years, in accordance with her policy terms.
Unhappy with this and the poor service she says shes had from UKI throughout, Mrs R 
complained to UKI. UKI partially upheld her complaint. Broadly, it agreed it hadnt updated 
Mrs R as it shouldve done  on her claim or progressed it as proactively  as it shouldve done.  
For this, it offered Mrs R £150  in compensation. But it didnt uphold any of Mrs Rs other 
complaint points. So Mrs R brought her complaint to us.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Rs complaint thought UKI had acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering her £150  in compensation for the poor service shed had. But she 
didnt uphold  Mrs Rs other complaint points. So Mrs R has asked for an ombudsman to look 
at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Id first like to say our adjudicator set out a detailed chronology  of events in the view she sent 
Mrs R and UKI. So Im not going to repeat that here.  Instead, I want to focus on what  I think  
are Mrs Rs main  concerns.
Mrs Rs first main complaint point is about the initial  phone call she had with UKI when she 
reported the collision. She says she was given incorrect information  by the adviser  she 
spoke to about the possible  outcomes of any claim she made.  Ive listened to the call and I 
Ref: DRN71061042dont agree. In what is admittedly a long conversation about many things, the adviser tells 
Mrs R the worst case scenario is where the negligence  of the third party cant be proved (for 
example, because the CCTV footage  isnt available). He says this could  result  in a split 
liability decision that would reduce  Mrs Rs no claims  bonus  to three years.  And later in the 
call he says a split liability decision would affect Mrs Rs excess.  I think  Mrs R was given 
reasonably clear information by the adviser about  the possible outcomes of her claim during 
the call (including  the possibility  of split liability) and so I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint on 
this point.
Mrs Rs second main  complaint point  is about  UKIs decision  to hold her and the third party 
equally responsible  for the collision. Mrs Rs car insurance policy  says it can take over and 
carry out the negotiation,  defence  or settlement of her claim. This is a standard  provision in 
all car insurance policies. But we expect insurers to act fairly and reasonably  in reaching 
decisions about liability. So my role here is to look at whether  UKI did act fairly and 
reasonably in reaching its decision  in Mrs Rs case. It isnt to decide whos at fault.
So Ive looked  at how and why UKI reached  its decision. Mrs R says the third party backed 
into her car, after shed already reversed out of a parking space. The third party  initially said 
Mrs R backed into her  although she later said they backed into each other.  So there are 
conflicting versions of events. UKI also looked at whether there  was any other evidence to 
support or challenge these versions.  There were no independent witnesses and, as Ive 
already mentioned, the car park owners  didnt release any CCTV footage it may had, 
although UKI (rather  late in the day) did ask for it. Mrs R took photos at the scene and sent 
these to UKI. But the photos were taken  after the event, so wouldnt show who was moving 
when or how things unfolded  as the collision happened.  I can also see UKI obtained the 
third partys  engineers report showing the damage to her car, which  I wouldve expected it to 
do (there wasnt one for Mrs Rs car because she was waiting for liability to be agreed by the 
third party insurer before going ahead  with repairs).
Looking at everything Ive got, I think UKIs  decision was in line with Mrs Rs policy and I 
think it took into account both all the available  evidence  and legal  principles. For these 
reasons, I think its decision to settle  Mrs Rs claim on the basis of split liability  was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs Rs third main  complaint point is that she got poor service from UKI in its handling of her 
claim. UKI doesnt  deny this. And I think UKI is right to accept it didnt give Mrs R the 
standard of service  she shouldve had. It didnt keep  Mrs R updated on the claim and it didnt 
actively progress her claim, which was unresolved for much longer than it shouldve been.  
Ive no doubt this caused Mrs R distress  and inconvenience. But I think the compensation of 
£150 that UKI has offered  Mrs R is fair and reasonable for the distress  and inconvenience I 
can see shes had and I dont think it needs to offer her anything  more or do anything else to 
put things right for her.
Ref: DRN71061043my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7106104