K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in August 1998.  The policy was 
added to Mrs Cs credit card account  when  she applied for the card in person. The policy 
cost 79p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think  Halifax  made Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. Halifax doesnt  have a copy of Mrs Cs application form but this isnt surprising given 
the account was closed more  than 15 years ago. But I have seen copies  of the types  
of forms that Halifax was using at the time. Its provided a sample  form in this instance 
and the form has a separate section for insurance, with PPI being one of the insurance 
products that could be purchased. From  what we know  of Halifaxs sales  process at 
the time, there  would have been a discussion about PPI and then a pre-printed cross 
would appear  in the box on the form to request the policy only if someone had agreed  
to take it.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Cs recollection 
of the sale has faded. Looking at the evidence, I think its more likely that the optional 
nature of the policy was explained. It seems  to me that Mrs C probably decided  to buy 
it, knowing that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer  remembers doing so
Moreover, as this was a monthly policy it wouldve appeared on Mrs Cs monthly  credit  
card statements  so I think she wouldve queried  it in 1998 if it had been added  to her 
account without  either  her knowledge or her consent.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs C, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because  
Mrs C wasnt caught by any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made  
the policy less useful for her, such as being  self-employed or having a pre-existing 
medical condition.  Whilst Mrs C had some sick pay, the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and for longer.  Mrs C says her family wouldve helped her if shed  
asked the. While I understand  the point she seeks to make,  there could be no 
guarantee that her family would be in a position  to help at some  unknown point in the 
Ref: DRN77322072future. So taking  all this into account,  I believe the policy provided Mrs C with a 
sufficient benefit,  which outweighed its cost.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it wouldve been  useful for her if she 
wasnt working because  of an accident, sickness or unemployment as she had limited 
sick pay. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  better  information  about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, but these points dont change my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7732207