K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about poor service from HSBC UK Bank plc when  he tried to find out 
whether hed been sent updated terms and conditions for his account.
background
Mr A contacted HSBC  because he thought  he might  not have been sent a terms and 
conditions update. He says HSBC  took too long to reply to his email enquiry, and that its 
response suggested it hadnt  read his message properly.
When Mr A spoke  to HSBC on the phone,  he says the banks information  was confusing and 
conflicting and that its staff werent properly trained in data protection procedures.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He accepted  there had 
been some  misunderstandings between Mr A and HSBC when they spoke, but ultimately  he 
concluded that the bank  had been  trying  to help Mr A. Overall the investigator was satisfied 
that HSBC had handled Mr As complaint fairly.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr A has said about his contact with HSBC when he 
was trying to find out whether hed missed  a terms and conditions update.
Following his first email to HSBC,  the banks reply  was headed Loan . HSBC accepted this 
was an error  and apologised to Mr A. I consider that was likely to be a genuine  mistake,  so I 
think the banks  response was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
HSBC aims  to respond to email enquiries within 48 hours, but it explained  to Mr A that it can 
sometimes take longer  when its experiencing a high level of enquiries.  Its unfortunate that 
HSBC couldnt  reply to Mr A within its target  timescale. But keeping in mind  the nature  of his 
enquiry I dont think the delay created unreasonable inconvenience for Mr A. So this point 
doesnt change  my overall conclusions about the complaint.
When Mr A spoke  to HSBC on the phone,  he said he hadnt  received the terms and 
conditions update that took effect in January 2018. He accepted that HSBC may no longer 
have a copy of the letter  that was sent.  But Mr A made a Subject Access Request  (SAR) 
because he wanted  to see proof  that HSBC had sent it.
Having listened  to the call, I accept that HSBCs  adviser was unclear  about the requirements 
for making  a successful  SAR. But the adviser  checked what  the requirements were  and then 
confirmed them with Mr A. 
I can see why Mr A might consider HSBCs  service  in this respect was poor. But the adviser 
checked what was required and clarified this with Mr A. I think  that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN70556312Mr A considers the advisers  lack of knowledge meant HSBC had breached  data protection 
regulations. Its not for this service  to decide whether data protection  laws have been  
breached, as thats the role of the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO). Mr A can refer 
the matter to the ICO if he wishes to do so.
At the end of the call the adviser said he would close the complaint by sending  a final 
response to Mr A, and that he would do so by email. I can see that there  may have been  a 
misunderstanding between Mr A and HSBC here, but I think the adviser took that course  of 
action because the final response would  then allow Mr A to refer his complaint to this service. 
HSBC has said that the information Mr A was trying  to obtain doesnt  amount to personal 
information for the purpose of the SAR. If Mr A is unhappy with HSBCs response to his 
request, he may want to consider  referring  the matter  to the ICO if he thinks theres  been  a 
breach of data protection laws.
I accept that HSBC made mistakes in dealing with Mr As enquiries about the terms and conditions  
update he thought hed missed. But from what Ive seen, heard and been  told, Im satisfied that 
HSBC took steps  to correct those mistakes, and that its actions were fair and reasonable. 
And overall,  Im not persuaded that the mistakes  that were  made  are sufficient for me to 
uphold Mr As complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7055631