K820x#14complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer,  should
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to Allianz  as the 
seller in my decision.
Mrs R says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs R took out with a Marks and Spencer charge card
in 1992.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain  why.
Allianz had to make it clear to Mrs R that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could  be applied  to the account.  Mrs R has told us that she wasnt  told that the policy 
was optional.
Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed when  Mrs R took out the card. On 
this form there is a section about  PPI and it asks for a box to be ticked  to confirm  the policy 
is wanted and for details of the person to be insured to be entered.  I can see that the box 
has been ticked and Mrs Rs details  have been entered  in the section, confirming that she 
wanted the PPI. Mrs R has signed the overall application which suggests she agreed  with 
everything that had been entered. If Mrs R didnt want  the PPI she could have left the 
relevant section blank.
So, when taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Allianz made Mrs R 
aware the policy was optional  and she agreed  to take it, knowing she could refuse  it if she 
didnt want it.
Allianz says it didnt provide advice to Mrs R about the policy  when it was sold but Mrs R 
disagrees. Based on the document Ive seen,  I think its unlikely that this was a 
recommended sale.  This means Allianz  didnt have to check that the policy was right for her. 
But it did need to make sure it gave  Mrs R clear  enough information about the policy to 
enable her to decide for herself  if she should take the cover.
Its possible  the information Allianz gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But even if Allianz  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it 
would have made a difference.  I still think she would have taken the policy.  I say this 
Ref: DRN71676632because Mrs R was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the main 
limitations to the cover, such as having unusual working arrangements  or a medical condition  
of which she was already aware.
Mrs R has told us she was entitled to six months  full sick pay, followed by six months half 
sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work  so she had no need for the cover.  But 
this policy  could have  paid 15% of the outstanding balance  until she was able to return  to 
work or until the outstanding balance was cleared  whichever came first. And this would 
have been in addition to her sick pay. The policy would also have covered the same term if 
she was to lose his job. Whilst  Ive noted that Mrs R has said that her parents could have 
helped meet the repayments, support from others cant be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to provide such financial 
assistance. So I think this still could have been  a useful benefit to her.
So, when  taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs R has lost out as a result of 
anything that Allianz may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7167663