K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
After Mr Cs policy renewed Admiral said it noted that he hadn't  declared two non-fault  
accidents for a named driver. It charged  him an additional premium of roughly £370. Mr C 
didn't think  that was fair and brought  his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 March 2019. For ease Ive repeated my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to ask 
Admiral to take any further  action.
Mr C said that it wasn't reasonable that Admiral  had charged him an additional premium.  He 
said that he didn't  think it was fair that the non-fault claims a named driver had been  involved 
in should affect his premium. 
But, like all motor policies  Im aware  of, Mr Cs policy requires him to tell Admiral about  any 
driving incidents drivers  on the policy have been involved in, regardless  of whether they 
were at fault or not. And if Mr C had told Admiral about the non-fault  claims before hed 
renewed his policy,  Admiral would have quoted him a higher  premium at renewal. Instead  
Admiral recalculated the premium once it became aware that Mr C hadn't  notified it of the 
non-fault incidents.
Mr Cs premium increased by roughly £370. Admiral explained to Mr C that its statistics 
show that drivers whove  been involved in non-fault accidents are more likely  to later be 
involved in fault claims.  And as Mr C is probably  aware, insurance is essentially an 
assessment of risk. When deciding  how much to charge  for their policies insurers will make  
an assessment of the likelihood that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they 
might have to pay out for those. And insurers will take into account a number of different 
factors when  deciding  what  to charge  for insurance. And if the assessment of risk increases, 
an insurer may decide to increase the premium.
We're not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer  how much  it 
can charge for its policies.  Neither  is it my role to tell an insurer  what factors it should  take 
into account when  assessing risk. Different  insurers will have different views on what  
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial judgement 
and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with.
In this case its apparent  that one of the risk factors Admiral takes into account  is whether a 
drivers been involved in a non-fault accident. And thats certainly not an unusual  practice  
across the motor insurance  industry.  So if Admiral thinks  drivers whove been involved in 
non-fault incidents pose a greater risk than drivers who haven't,  its entitled to charge a 
higher premium.
Ref: DRN75001672I can understand Mr C may not agree with Admirals assessment of risk. And this isn't the 
approach of all insurers.  But this doesn't mean that Admirals done anything wrong. Its 
entitled to decide its rating  factors (what it bases its premiums on) in response  to its 
assessment of the risks it covers and the market it operates in. And as Ive said above it's 
not for me to tell Admiral  how it should go about  assessing the risk it believes its 
policyholders present.  Thats  something  its allowed to do when balancing its need to cover 
any perceived risks against its desire  to be competitive  and retain a customers business. So 
I don't think its approach  to rating risk is unfair.  But that doesn't mean it was fair for Admiral 
to simply impose an additional  premium.
Mr C should have told Admiral about the non-fault incidents but he didn't do so. His mistake 
in not doing so is known  in the insurance industry  as a careless misrepresentation. And 
theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)  which sets out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers 
may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied). But if the consumer isn't 
happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply impose  an additional premium, as happened  in 
this case. But we think its reasonable for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres a 
problem and give them the option of paying  the additional premium in order  to keep the 
policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves.
In this case Admiral initially imposed the additional premium. While that wasn't fair I noted 
that it later gave Mr C the option of cancelling his policy with a refund of any unused 
premium and without  an administrative  charge.  And that would have given Mr C the 
opportunity to look elsewhere  and to see if there was another  policy that was more suitable 
for him. But Mr C didn't accept that offer,  in other  words, having paid the additional premium, 
he chose to leave  the policy in place.
Admiral didn't give Mr C the option  of continuing  the policy without him paying an additional 
premium on the condition that it would settle  any future claims on a proportionate  basis. But I 
dont think Mr C was disadvantaged by that as his response to our adjudicators  view makes 
it clear that wasn't an option he thought was suitable  for him.  
So although  Admiral shouldn't have  simply imposed an additional premium, it did take 
reasonable action to put that right.  And Mr C only paid the premium he would  have paid if he 
hadn't made  a misrepresentation. It follows that Im not going  to ask Admiral  to take any 
further action  now.
For completeness, Ill add that Mr C initially also commented that the non-fault incidents 
hadn't affected the named drivers policy in the same way that it did his own policy. But Im 
aware that insurers like Admiral will revisit their assessment of risk with great regularity. So 
the affect a risk factor has on a premium can change on a daily basis.  Im also aware that 
insurers calculations of risk, and so premium,  is a complicated process involving numerous 
different factors, including the application  of discounts and price ceilings. And as those 
calculations will be tailored to the specific policyholder I wouldn't expect  the effect of 
non-fault incidents to be identical for different policyholders. So I don't think the fact that the 
Ref: DRN75001673effect on the named driver was different to the effect  on Mr C means  that Admiral did 
anything wrong.
developments
Mr C didn't agree with my provisional decision.  Of relevance to it he said that as this was a 
renewal and not an application for a new policy, the named drivers incidents  weren't in his 
mind. He said there was no intention  to hide anything. He said that the option  CIDRA 
allowed him weren't  worth accepting. And if hed cancelled his policy he would  have lost his 
no claims bonus (NCB).
Mr C added that he doesn't  believe  that Admiral has statistics showing drivers with non-fault  
incidents pose  a greater risk. And he challenged Admiral to publish its statics. 
Mr C referred  to how Admiral had treated the premium  for his named driver.  And said that he 
couldn't see how another car hitting his parked car made the named driver a higher risk. 
Mr C said that if he doesn't go on to make a claim who will refund his extra  premium  or 
compensate him for the stress. He also felt that the increase in premium was too much.  He 
said he felt that our role was to check procedures so was disappointed  that I said it wasn't.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
The events Mr C complained about happened at renewal rather  than when applying for a 
new policy. And I haven't suggested that he withheld information  deliberately.  But CIDRA is 
clear that a consumer can make  a careless  misrepresentation by failing to update or amend 
information at renewal.  And thats what happened in this case.
I can see why Mr C might not have been happy  with the options CIDRA allows for putting 
things right following  a misrepresentation.  But the error was Mr Cs and if he hadn't  made it 
then CIDRA wouldn't have applied. But he did and it does. So I think its fair to apply it now 
even if he wasn't happy  with the remedies it offered to Admiral.
Mr C said that he doesnt believe  Admiral has statistics to show  that drivers with non-fault 
claims pose a higher  risk than drivers without those claims. But its widely  accepted across 
the insurance industry that drivers with recent non-fault claims are more  likely to be involved 
in other  driving  incidents later on. This isn't the view of all insurers  but its certainly  not 
uncommon. So Im satisfied that Admiral doe have the statistics its referred to.
Mr C wants Admiral to publish its statistics.  But generally insurers will say that the statistics  
and data they gather are commercially  sensitive.  As they will use that information to design 
their policies and calculate their premiums. So I wouldn't insist that an insurer like Admiral  
must publish such data.
I take Mr Cs point  that he can't understand why another  driver hitting his named drivers car 
while parked  makes the named driver a greater  risk. I agree that doesn't  seem  logical.  But 
as I've indicated above, most  insurers will consider their statistics when assessing risk. And 
if their statistics show that drivers with non-fault accidents go on to make more fault claims 
Ref: DRN75001674than those without  such incidents they will reflect that in their risk assessment, regardless 
that the reason for the increase in risk isn't properly  understood. 
Mr C again said that the non-fault incidents  had a different effect on the named drivers own 
policy. I said in my provisional decision that I wouldn't expect the effect on both polices to be 
identical. But, for completeness Ive looked a little closer at the issue. I can see that Admiral 
actually refunded the named driver after Admiral re-categorised one incident from fault to 
non-fault. In other words,  Admiral recalculated  the premium because it felt that changing it 
from fault to non-fault made the named driver a lower risk than when it thought  the complaint 
might have been the named drivers fault. But the non-fault incident would have still 
increased Admirals assessment of risk compared to a situation where the named driver had 
no claims at all. Also, at the time of the second  incident the named  drivers  policy  hadn't  
renewed. So Admiral  would only have considered that incident once it did and not mid-term. 
It follows that I don't think Admiral singled Mr C out or treated him unfairly.
Mr C has asked what happens  if he doesn't go on to make a claim.  But when designing 
policies and the premiums they charge for those, insurers will think about how likely  it is that 
their policyholders will make claims and how much they think theyll have  to pay out for 
those. They  then calculate their individual premiums  based on their assessment of risk for 
the customer concerned.  And, as I said in my provisional decision, they do so bearing in 
mind their desire to remain  competitive in the market they operate in. They don't later make  
a refund if no claim is made, that's simply not how insurance works. So I wouldn't expect 
Admiral to do so in this case. 
Similarly, as I think Admiral made  a reasonable  offer to Mr C to allow him to cancel his policy 
I don't think compensation is warranted. I understand that Mr C didn't wish to cancel his 
policy because he would  have lost his NCB, but that was his choice. 
Mr C also commented on the scale of the increased  premium. But as I said in my provisional  
decision, it's not my role to tell an insurer how much to charge for their policies. Mr C might  
not be happy with that but its simply not our role to tell insurers  how much they can charge 
for the risks they cover. Were an informal  complaints handling body who look at individual 
complaints based  on what's fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of each  case. 
And while Ill take into account things like the relevant law, regulatory rules,  codes  of practice 
and industry standards when coming  to those decisions, it's not our role to police the 
insurance industry. Thats the role of the industry  regulator, which  is the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And having looked  at Mr Cs case carefully Im satisfied that Admiral  doesn't  
need to do anything else to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7500167