K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK plc wont refund to her the money that she paid for a 
mattress. Her complaint  is made  against  Santander  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.  
background
Mrs W used her Santander credit card in April 2018  to pay £900 for a mattress.  She 
complained to the supplier that the mattress wasnt fit for purpose as she couldnt sleep 
properly on it. It arranged  for the mattress to be inspected by an independent furniture expert  
- but no fault was found. Mrs W then claimed  a refund from Santander  under  section  75 but 
she wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
mattress was a showroom model  which  had been  on display for two months but was 
manufactured in November 2015.  And she said that the independent  inspection  report  
confirms that there is dipping in the mattress  but that it isn't down to a manufacturing fault. 
So she wasnt satisfied that thered  been  a breach of contract. 
Mrs W has asked  for her complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that:
shes concerned  about  where the mattress  was between manufacture and going  on 
display in the store that she bought it from;
it shouldnt have  deteriorated in the way that it has  given its quality and price;
she tested the mattress in the store before she bought it but there were a number of 
large cushions and throws on it and she was fully clothed with a coat on so it wasnt a 
true experience  of the mattress and that shouldnt be held against her; and
it seems that the suppliers guarantee means  absolutely nothing in her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint about Santander, 
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the mattress  and that Santanders  response to her claim under section 75 wasnt  
fair or reasonable.  Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Ws claim under section 75 as 
only a court would  be able to do that.
Mrs W bought the mattress in April 2018 for £900. The sales invoice clearly  shows  that it 
was a showroom  model  and had a one year guarantee.  Mrs W says that she was told that 
the mattress had been used in the showroom for about two months and that she quickly  
tested it in the showroom before buying it.
But after the mattress was delivered to her she says that she found that she couldnt sleep 
on it properly. She complained to the retailer which arranged for the mattress  to be inspected  
by an independent furniture expert. The expert  says that there was some softening in the 
hips and shoulders  areas  and firmness in the centre   but that no manufacturing fault was 
detected  so the report recommended that no further action was required.  The expert did 
Ref: DRN79222352report that the mattress  was manufactured  in November 2015  and theres no evidence to 
show what happened to the mattress between  manufacture and it being used in the 
showroom. But Mrs W had the opportunity to inspect  and test the mattress in the showroom 
before she bought it. 
Although I sympathise with Mrs W for the issues that shes  had with sleeping  on the 
mattress, Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  that theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  Mrs W bought  a mattress knowing 
that it had been used  in the store so she paid a discounted price  for it. And I consider that 
the suppliers normal  guarantee didnt fully apply to that mattress  because of the basis  on 
which shed bought it. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for me to require  Santander  to refund to Mrs W the money that she paid for the mattress  or 
to take any other action  in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7922235