K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Allianz  Insurance Plc didnt inform him sooner that he wasnt  covered 
under his motor  insurance policy to drive a van that he didnt own.  
background
On 27 January 2013, Mr L was involved in an incident while  driving his friends van. He 
reported this to his insurance broker shortly afterwards, with the intention  of making a claim. 
Allianz, as the underwriter  of Mr Ls policy, were first notified of the claim when the broker  
reported it on 30 May 2013.  It agreed to make  enquiries and consider whether the claim was 
covered by the part of the policy that insures Mr L to drive other cars. To reach  this decision, 
at the beginning of June  2013, Allianz  asked  Mr L for details of the owner of the van. Mr L 
confirmed he was driving at the time the incident took place  and he therefore wanted Allianz 
to deal with the claim on the basis that he was responsible. He accepted  that the damage to 
his friends van wouldnt  be covered  but he wanted Allianz to pay for the cost of repairs  to 
the third-partys vehicle.  
On 6 June 2013, Allianz decided that it would be unable  to provide cover for the claim and 
told Mr L this was because he was driving  someone  elses van  when the policy  only covers 
him for driving other cars. It also made the third-party insurer  aware that it wouldnt be 
dealing with the claim for that reason. 
In 2018, Mr L raised a complaint, because  he remembered seeking advice prior to borrowing 
his friends van and being told that he was insured. He submitted that Allianz ought to have 
made it clear  to him immediately that he was uninsured, when he first reported the claim. So, 
its unfair that hes now liable to pay for the repairs to the third-partys vehicle,  when he ought 
to have been made aware of this before repair  work was agreed to go ahead. 
Allianz investigated and asked Mr L if he could  remember who he had spoken to about being 
covered. Mr L couldnt recall the name of the advisor, or, whether hed spoken to Allianz  
directly or the broker. Allianz had no record of such a conversation  and it confirmed that it 
hadnt ever amended the policy to specifically  provide cover for vans. Therefore, cover was 
not in place at the time of the incident  and it didnt provide incorrect information about  the 
extent of cover. So, it didnt uphold the complaint and maintained that it had made  a fair 
decision on the claim. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators  
looked into it and, considering the terms of the policy,  found that Allianz  had made a fair 
decision on the claim  so he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Allianz agreed with 
this opinion. 
Mr L doesnt agree. He maintains that Allianz has handled the claim unfairly, by not 
informing him at the earliest opportunity that he was uninsured. And he submits that he 
shouldve been  consulted,  before being  held liable for the cost of repair work. 
Because Mr L doesnt agree, the complaint has been escalated  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN76034622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
As the regulator,  The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) sets out the jurisdiction of our 
service in the DISP  Rules part of the FCA Handbook. One of the requirements of DISP,  is
a complaint may only be dealt with by our service if its brought by an eligible complainant. In 
order to be an eligible complainant, the consumer  must have one of the relationships set out 
in DISP 2.7.6. 
Mr L wasnt a direct customer  of the third-party  insurer, as a contract  of insurance wasnt 
taken out with it, or intended to be taken  out, for his benefit. Therefore, a complaint about 
this insurer is one our service is unable to consider,  because Mr L would not meet the 
requirements of an eligible complainant.
Mr L undoubtedly did hold a contract of insurance  with Allianz,  which makes him an eligible 
complainant against it as a respondent business. This is important to point out, because I 
understand that the third-party insurer is holding Mr L liable for the costs of repairs,  after 
discovering that they would not be recovered by this claim. And Mr L submits that Allianz 
ought to have been made aware of the claim, by the third-party  insurer, before the broker  
made it aware. 
However, Im unable to comment on these  points, because within this complaint I can only 
consider the acts and omissions of Allianz. It follows that I cant determine whether the repair  
costs are unfair or excessive, whether Mr L ought to have been consulted  before repair  work  
went ahead, nor why Allianz were not notified before 30 May 2013  because  these would all 
relate to a complaint that would need  to be directed to the third-party insurer, or the broker.
It doesnt appear to be in question that the terms and conditions  of the policy Mr L held with 
Allianz only covered  him for driving  cars  it didnt extend to the use of driving vans. Indeed,  
this is set out in section  one of the policy booklet  Driving other  cars, and nowhere in this 
section are vans (or any vehicle type other than cars) mentioned as being  included in the 
cover. So, for the avoidance of doubt,  Im satisfied that Allianz hasnt  unreasonably  rejected 
this claim.  
Allianz has submitted  documentary evidence to support that this cover was not amended 
during the policy  term, in relation to driving other vehicles. So, Im satisfied that Mr L could 
always have relied  upon the terms and conditions set out in the policy  booklet, as these 
remained the same. 
Allianz asked Mr L for details of the conversation that he remembers taking place, with the 
intention of confirming  whether he was given incorrect information. I understand that Mr L 
could not recall who he spoke to, so Allianz  was restricted on what information  it had to fully 
investigate  and I must  take into account  that the complaint was raised some years  after 
this conversation is said to have  taken place. So, I can appreciate  the difficulty Allianz had in 
locating further details, such as call recordings or notes, without this information.  Overall, the 
evidence available  does  not persuade me that Mr L was misled  by Allianz to believe that he 
did in fact have  cover in place for the use of driving vans. 
Ref: DRN76034623Mr L has submitted that the length  of time Allianz  took to reach  its decision to repudiate  the 
claim has left him facing a bill for the cost of repairs. Similarly, not being  told sooner that he 
was in fact uninsured has likely increased  these costs. 
But, in light of my findings, it strikes me that he would always be liable for these costs  in 
absence of an insurance policy to cover  them.  And although Im unable to comment on the 
actions of the third-party insurer as mentioned  theres no guarantee that the repairs  
wouldve been cheaper, had Allianz  communicated its decision quicker than it did. In any 
event, Allianz rejected  the claim and notified  Mr L and the third-party insurer within a week  or 
so of it first being reported by the broker. During  this time, it made reasonable enquiries into 
the nature  of the incident to reach its decision.  
Therefore, Im not satisfied that Allianz has prejudiced Mr Ls position, or that it didnt handle  
the claim promptly and fairly.  It follows that I dont require Allianz to do anything differently 
for the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7603462