K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains he was mis-sold a mortgage  by an appointed representative of Legal & 
General Partnership  Services Limited.
background 
Mr E had an interest only mortgage  backed by an investment vehicle. Acting  on the advice of 
L&G, he re-mortgaged to another  lender, converting  to repayment. Mr E also consolidated 
his unsecured debt and borrowed some  further funds. 
Me Es now represented  by a claims management company (CMC)  which  brings this 
complaint on his behalf. The CMC  says the re-mortgage was unsuitable and unnecessary as 
Mr E could have stayed with his existing lender. It says there  was no need to consolidate his 
debt as Mr E could have  reduced his outgoings instead. And it complains about the fees he 
was required to pay, as well as the costs paid for will and legal advice.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, so the CMC asked for an ombudsman to review 
it.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the fact find that was taken at the time. Ive no reason to doubt its accuracy. It 
shows that Mr E had a monthly disposable income  of just £10 per month after paying his 
commitments. The CMC  rightly points  out that it had a large expenditure recorded on 
hobbies and other lifestyle choices, which Mr E could  have reduced rather  than using debt 
consolidation to reduce his outgoings.  
And indeed  he could. However, the fact find also records specific  details about  what  Mr E 
spent this money on, and I think its clear that his priority at the time was to make the 
necessary reductions  in expenditure  by reducing  his payments on debt, not his other 
outgoings. 
The adviser did make clear that consolidation would make the debts more expensive  in the 
long term. Although no specific figures to illustrate  this were given, I think  Mr E was given  
enough information to understand the consequences  and consolidation of his debt, rather  
than reducing his other expenditure, met his needs and priorities at the time.  I dont think  it 
was unsuitable.
The fact find also records that Mr Es investment was projected  to fall short of returning  
enough to pay off his previous mortgage   and as the new mortgage was higher, so would 
be the shortfall. I think it was reasonable for Mr E to want, and L&G to arrange, a repayment  
mortgage that would be paid off by the end of the term without problem. 
As Mr E was looking  to take a new fixed rate, and convert the mortgage to repayment  terms, 
and borrow more money, I dont think it was unreasonable  for L&G to look at the whole of 
the market rather than simply recommend the existing lender. Even if it had, the brokers 
fees would  still have been payable   and, as there was further borrowing, so would the 
Ref: DRN78713042valuation. So Im not persuaded that a mortgage elsewhere was more  expensive than 
remaining with the existing lender.
I think L&G made clear to Mr E what  it would charge  and while there  were  several  fees, I 
think Mr E understood what he was paying for. While L&G broke its charges down  into 
several sub-headings   and other  brokers may not  theres  no requirement to charge in a 
particular way or a particular amount.  Mr E wanted a new mortgage, knew what he had to 
pay, and got what he paid for. I dont think that was unfair.
L&G has offered  to refund the interest charged on a will package Mr E added  to the 
mortgage balance,  as well as commission the broker received from the solicitor.  Its also 
offered £250 compensation.  I think thats  fair. There was no need to add the relatively small 
cost of the will to the mortgage balance and make  it interest bearing over the term, so its fair 
that L&G refunds  the cost of doing so now.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint, and I dont 
require it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7871304