K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained about MetLife Europe d.a.c. Hes unhappy that fees were  deducted  
from his pension and paid to a financial adviser without his agreement  or consent.
background 
Mr S has a pension with MetLife. The pension is in drawdown and has been since around 
2014. 
The independent financial adviser (IFA) linked with the pension for Mr S was a relative  of his. 
Ill refer to this firm as Firm 1. Firm 1 ceased trading in 2015  and in 2016. Mr S says that the 
IFA contacted MetLife and asked that it start sending statements to Mr S directly and that he 
was self-administering the policy.
Mr S says that he also telephoned MetLife around this time to request he self-administer the 
policy.
Mr S received his 2018 annual statement in February 2019 and this showed charges 
deducted for financial advice. Mr S contacted  MetLife to query these charges. He found  out 
that a new IFA business (Ill refer to this firm as Firm 2) had been  appointed to his pension  
plan in 2016. He says he didnt know of this firm and he hadnt heard anything  from it. 
Despite that hed paid over £1,900  in fees to it.
Mr S complained to MetLife. It responded and said that the pension  plan had been  arranged 
by Firm 1. It had received  trail commission. Firm 1 had been authorised  in its own right but 
ceased to be authorised  and became an Appointed Representative (AR) of Firm 2 in 2011. 
So when Firm 1 had ceased trading Firm 2 had appointed a new adviser. MetLife said that it 
had continued  to make payments to Firm 2. It didnt agree that it had been told that Mr S was 
to self-administer  the plan.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by an adjudicator  who didnt 
think that it should be upheld. Essentially, the adjudicator felt that as Firm 1 was an AR of 
Firm 2, Firm 2 should  have appointed a new adviser  in 2016. And there was no record of Mr 
S asking  to self-administer  so it wasnt wrong to deduct  the charges. If Firm 2 hadnt 
provided a service that was something  Mr S would need to take up with them.
Mr S didnt accept that view and there was further correspondence with MetLife. That 
resulted in further evidence being considered and in particular a recording of a call between 
MetLife and Mr Ss IFA (with Firm 1) from 2016.  During that call the IFA asked for details of 
Mr Ss policy  be sent to him in accordance with a letter  of authority Mr S had sent a few days 
earlier. During this call, the agent asks the IFA whether he wants the former adviser 
removed from the policy.  The IFA explains that he was former  adviser  with Firm 1 but is now 
retired. MetLife agreed that at this point the agent should have informed the IFA that a new 
firm had been appointed. If that had happened it accepted  that it was likely that Mr S would 
have decided to cancel the commission from that point.
So MetLife offered  to refund the deductions  from the time of that call up to 2019.  These  
totalled £1260.81. It also offered to pay £641.70  for distress and inconvenience thus making 
a total of £1,902.51 which  equalled the total amount of fees deducted  during this period.
Ref: DRN70657632MetLife then agreed  to calculate any loss of investment growth  on the £1,260.81 that had 
been deducted and add this to the pension.
The adjudicator felt this offer was fair and didnt think  MetLife should refund any further fees 
as there  was no evidence that it was aware Mr S intended to self-administer his pension  
before the call in 2016.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that MetLife had engaged a new IFA in breach of FCA rules, Firm 
2 had failed to contact him, when he had contacted MetLife in 2016 he wasnt  given any 
explanation for the lack of statements and MetLife  hadnt complied with FCA Principles by 
treating him fairly or communicating with him in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. I uphold this complaint but I consider the offer MetLife has 
now made to be a fair one, and so I dont  make any further award.
Mr S was advised by a relative who worked at Firm 1. Firm 1 became an AR of Firm 2 in 
2011. Firm 1 ceased to trade in 2015 and the commission payments for Mr Ss pension  plan 
were directed to Firm 2 in March 2015  as Firm 1 had been its AR.
I can understand when  Mr S was surprised to find that payments were being  made  to a firm 
he had never heard  of and had no dealings with. I think it would be reasonable for him to 
have expected to be informed when  Firm 1 became an AR of Firm 2 and also to be told that 
an adviser from Firm 2 would be replacing  his relative as the adviser on his pension.  But I 
think the primary responsibility for telling him about this rested with Firm 1 and/or Firm 2. 
Whilst its true that MetLife could have told him of these changes,  I dont think it was actually 
responsible for telling him. That responsibility  lay elsewhere in my view.
If it could  be said that MetLife  should  have informed him of these changes and failed to do 
so, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint on that basis.  Thats  
because, as I have said,  the primary responsibility  to tell Mr S was with Firm 1 and/or  Firm 2.
Most recently MetLife  has accepted that it could have dealt with a phone call in 2016 that it 
received from Mr Ss relative  (formerly of Firm 1) differently, and clarified  that a new adviser 
had been appointed. Its accepted that had it done so, this would  probably  have resulted in 
Mr S stopping future commission payments to Firm 2.
I think that redress based on a refund of commission from the time of that telephone call is 
fair. I say this because  Ive not seen any evidence  that establishes that MetLife had been 
informed, or ought  to have known, to stop the commission payments any earlier than that. 
So I think the offer MetLife has made is fair in all the circumstances.
Ive noted Mr Ss response  to the latest  view. Ive tried to address the points hes made for 
completeness, I dont agree that MetLife engaged a new IFA for him. Firm 1 was already an 
AR of Firm 2. MetLife changed its records apparently at the request of Firm 1. I think  Firm 1 
or Firm 2 ought to have told Mr S about this change. 
Ref: DRN70657633Mr S says that Firm 2 didnt contact him. If thats  right, thats an issue for it and not for 
MetLife.
Mr S says that he wasnt given a proper explanation  for the lack of statements when he 
asked in July 2016. In my view, he ought to have had further information from Firm 1 or Firm 
2 by then. And in any event this discussion took place around the same time as the call with 
the IFA which MetLife has accepted could have been handled better. So a better  explanation  
to Mr S wouldnt  change the outcome of the complaint.
I agree  with Mr S that there has been  a failure  in communication, but I think the primary 
responsibility for that is with Firm 1 and/or Firm 2.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about MetLife Europe d.a.c. It has added  £1902.51 to Mr Ss pension 
and agreed to add an additional amount  to reflect the loss of growth, if any, on the amount of  
£1260.81. I think  this offer is fair and so I dont make  any additional award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7065763