K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr P. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out probably in 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr P has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will explain 
why:
Mr P has said the PPI was added  without his knowledge. He says he rejected PPI on 
a loan taken around  the same time, and that this shows  he will have declined  PPI on 
the credit  card. But I dont think that necessarily  proves that Lloyds  didnt follow its 
proper procedures with the credit card PPI. It wouldnt  be fair for me to decide it had 
done something wrong in this way, unless  I had stronger supporting evidence. 
I think Lloyds made  Mr P aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it 
 although I can understand  if he can no longer remember  this. There  are no 
surviving documents from the time. But, from what we know of Lloyds practices and 
standard forms at the time, I think it will have been presented as a choice. 
Lloyds probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr P but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Ps employer sick pay 
and other resources lasted. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick 
pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr P more financially secure for longer. And it 
would have put off the time hed have needed  to fall back  on savings. So the PPI was 
potentially useful.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other  
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the costs, benefits  and restrictions 
of the PPI. But I dont  think, in his circumstances, full information about costs  and 
benefits would have affected  whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like hed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Ref: DRN77641312Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  29 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7764131